"However , there is limited information on the timing and the relative magnitudes of maximum and minimum mortality , by local climate , age group , sex and medical cause of death . We used geo-coded mortality data and wavelets to analyse the seasonality of mortality by age group and sex from 1980 to 2016 in the USA and its subnational climatic regions . In these ages , percent difference in death rates between peak and minimum months did not vary across climate regions , nor changed from 1980 to 2016 . It is well-established that death rates vary throughout the year , and in temperate climates there tend to be more deaths in winter than in summer  . In a large country like the USA , which possesses distinct climate regions , the seasonality of mortality may vary geographically , due to geographical variations in mortality , localized weather patterns , and regional differences in adaptation measures such as heating , air conditioning and healthcare  . A thorough understanding of the long-term dynamics of seasonality of mortality , and its geographical and demographic patterns , is needed to identify at-risk groups , plan responses at the present time as well as under changing climate conditions . Although mortality seasonality is well-established , there is limited information on how seasonality , including the timing of minimum and maximum mortality , varies by local climate and how these features have changed over time , especially in relation to age group , sex and medical cause of death  . In this paper , we comprehensively characterize the spatial and temporal patterns of all-cause and cause-specific mortality seasonality in the USA by sex and age group , through the application of wavelet analytical techniques , to over three decades of national mortality data . In addition , we identify how the percentage difference between death rates in maximum and minimum mortality months has changed over time . The strengths of our study are its innovative methods of characterizing seasonality of mortality dynamically over space and time , by age group and cause of death; using wavelet and centre of gravity analyses; using ERA-Interim data output to compare the association between seasonality of death rates and regional temperature . We used wavelet and centre of gravity analyses , which allowed systematically identifying and characterizing seasonality of total and cause-specific mortality in the USA , and examining how seasonality has changed over time . Importantly , we also showed that all-cause and cause-specific mortality seasonality is largely similar in terms of both timing and magnitude across diverse climatic regions with substantially different summer and winter temperatures . Prior studies have noted seasonality of mortality for all-cause mortality and for specific causes of death in the USA  . Few of these studies have done consistent national and subnational analyses , and none has done so over time , for a comprehensive set of age groups and causes of death , and in relation to regional temperature differences . Our results on strong seasonality of cardiorespiratory diseases deaths and weak seasonality of cancer deaths , restricted to older ages , are broadly consistent with these studies  , which had limited analysis on how seasonality changes over time and geography  . Similarly , our results on seasonality of injury deaths are supported by a few prior studies  , but our subnational analysis over three decades revealed variations in when injury deaths peaked and in how seasonal differences in these deaths have changed over time in relation to age group which had not been reported before . The absence of variation in the magnitude of mortality seasonality indicates that different regions in the USA are similarly adapted to temperature seasonality , whereas Nordic countries may have better environmental  and health system measures to counter the effects of cold winters than those in southern Europe . If the observed absence of association between the magnitude of mortality seasonality and seasonal temperature difference across the climate regions also persists over time , the changes in temperature as a result of global climate change are unlikely to affect the winter-summer mortality difference . The cause-specific analysis showed that the substantial decline in seasonal mortality differences in adolescents and young adults was related to the diminishing seasonality of  injuries , especially from road traffic crashes , which are more likely to occur in the summer months  and are more common in men . The weakening of seasonality in boys under five years of age was related to two phenomena: first , the seasonality of death from cardiorespiratory diseases declined , and second , the proportion of deaths from perinatal conditions , which exhibit limited seasonality  , increased  . In contrast to young and middle ages , mortality in older ages , where death rates are highest , maintained persistent seasonality over a period of three decades  . Age , sex , state of residence , month of death , and underlying cause of death were available for each record . We calculated monthly death rates for each age and sex group , both nationally and for sub-national climate regions . Death rate calculations accounted for varying length of months , by multiplying each month’s death count by a factor that would make it equivalent to a 31 day month . We did not further divide other causes because the number of deaths could become too small to allow stable estimates when divided by age group , sex and climate region . In brief , a Morlet wavelet , described in detail elsewhere  , is equivalent to using a moving window on the death rate time series and analysing periodicity in each window using a short-form Fourier transform , hence generating a dynamic spectral analysis , which allows measuring dynamic seasonal patterns , in which the periodicity of death rates may disappear , emerge , or change over time . For each age-sex group , we calculated the p-values of the presence of 12 month seasonality for the comparison of wavelet power spectra of the entire study period  with 100 simulations against a white noise spectrum , which represents random fluctuations . To identify the months of maximum and minimum death rates , we calculated the centre of gravity and the negative centre of gravity of monthly death rates . Centre of gravity was calculated as a weighted average of months of deaths , with each month weighted by its death rate; negative centre of gravity was also calculated as a weighted average of months of deaths , but with each month was weighted by the difference between its death rate and the year’s maximum death rate . Using a technique called circular statistics , a mean  of the angles  representing the deaths  is found using the relation below:θ-=arg∑j=1nexp⁡  , where arg denotes the complex number argument and θj denotes the month of death in angular form for a particular death j . For each age-sex group and cause of death , and for each year , we calculated the percent difference in death rates between the maximum and minimum mortality months . We fitted a linear regression to the time series of seasonal differences from 1980 to 2016 , and used the fitted trend line to estimate how much the percentage difference in death rates between the maximum and minimum mortality months had changed from 1980 to 2016 . Our method of analysing seasonal differences avoids assuming that any specific month or group of months represent highest and lowest number of deaths for a particular cause of death , which is the approach taken by the traditional measure of Excess Winter Deaths . It also allows the maximum and minimum mortality months to vary by age group , sex and cause of death . "
"We addressed this important question in a mouse model of ocular HSV-1 infection , where sensory nerve damage is a common clinical problem . This same C3/CD4 T cell axis triggered corneal sensory nerve damage in a mouse model of ocular graft-versus-host disease  . Collectively , these findings uncover a central role for complement in CD4 T cell-dependent corneal nerve damage in multiple disease settings and indicate the possibility for complement-targeted therapeutics to mitigate sensory neuropathies . The eye has been labeled a ‘complement dysregulation hotspot’ due to complement’s contributions to many ophthalmic diseases , but complement activation is restricted in the healthy cornea  . These homeostatic mechanisms , collectively dubbed ‘ocular immune privilege , ’ help preserve the ocular surface and enable the cornea to properly focus incoming light onto the retina . Furthermore , corneal nerves are increasingly recognized as central regulators of immune privilege at the ocular surface  . Consequently , inflammatory events that damage corneal nerves can have insidious consequences in terms of ocular surface health and transparency  . Corneal nerves originate predominantly from the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal ganglion  , and these peripheral nerves provide the cornea with the highest density of sensory fibers in the human body . While the cornea and peripheral nerves constitutively synthesize complement proteins  , the role of the complement cascade in corneal nerve damage has not been explored . Moreover , C3 activation has been reported in the cornea soon after infection with herpes simplex virus type 1  , which is a common cause of corneal sensory nerve damage in patients  . Given the cornea’s high density of sensory nerves , it is particularly amenable for investigating the mechanistic role of complement in peripheral nerve damage . To this end , we evaluated corneal nerve integrity and mechano-sensory function using a murine model of ocular HSV-1 infection to test the hypothesis that local complement activation and T cell engagement coordinate corneal nerve damage . The pathobiology underlying non-penetrating corneal nerve damage is not well understood , although inflammation is generally recognized as an important feature  . While HSV-1 is a clinically prominent cause of corneal nerve damage and sensation loss , a variety of pathogenic microbes impair the corneal nerve architecture upon ocular infection  . In addition to sensation loss evoked by HSV-1 , corneal nerve alterations in other contexts such as dry eye disease are associated with a broad array of neuropathic clinical symptoms including dryness , itch , and pain  . To further qualify the possible role of complement in corneal nerve damage independent of infection , we evaluated corneal mechanosensory function in two noninfectious T cell-dependent ocular surface inflammatory diseases . The translational relevance of this study is underscored by in vivo confocal microscopy data from multiple clinical studies showing architectural changes in the corneal nerves of patients with herpetic keratitis , chronic ocular allergy , and ocular GVHD  . Elucidating the pathomechanisms underlying corneal nerve damage may enable development of more effective therapeutics to mitigate progression of such ocular surface inflammatory diseases . Adaptive immunity has been shown to prevent recovery of corneal sensory function following ocular HSV-1 infection  , but the initial pathophysiological triggers of denervation and sensation loss are not definitively characterized . Ocular HSV-1 infection provokes corneal denervation and sensation loss between days 5 to 8 post-infection  in immunologically naive C57BL/6 mice  . Indeed , corneal nerve fiber retraction was evident upon T cell infiltration in the cornea  . Accordingly , we hypothesized that local complement activation and T cell engagement coordinate corneal nerve damage during HSV-1 infection . To address our hypothesis , corneal sensation and pathogen burden were evaluated in C57BL/6 wildtype  and complement C3-deficient  mice following ocular HSV-1 infection . The same trend revealing preservation of corneal sensation in C3-/- animals was also observed with an increased HSV-1 challenge inoculum  . Viral titers were measured at time points before and after the onset of corneal sensation loss to determine whether the divergence in sensation stemmed from a differential susceptibility to infection . Corneal buttons from WT mice exhibited extensive denervation with CD3+ T cell infiltration at day 8 p . The number of cornea-infiltrating CD4+ or CD8+ T cells were similar among WT and C3-/- mice  . Together , these data indicate that corneal sensation loss in herpetic keratitis involves a C3-dependent inflammatory process independent of viral burden . To investigate this possibility , corneas from HSV-1-infected WT and C3-/- mice were evaluated for chemokines associated with T cell recruitment , and the eye-draining mandibular lymph nodes  were harvested to evaluate T cell responses . Collectively , these data show that C3-/- T cells exhibit normal expansion and recruitment to the cornea during ocular HSV-1 infection . In support of our hypothesis that C3 and T cells jointly coordinate corneal sensation loss , frank corneal sensation loss was not observed following ocular HSV-1 infection in C3-sufficient , alpha-beta T cell receptor-deficient mice  which congenitally lack classical CD4+ and CD8+ T cells  . To investigate potential functional defects of C3-/- T cells in an in vivo context , CD3+ T cells were harvested from HSV-infected WT or C3-/- mice at day 8 p . Six days following cell transfer , TCRα-/- recipients were infected with HSV-1 and corneal sensation monitored longitudinally . Adoptive transfer of CD3+ T cells from either WT or C3-/- donors evoked progressive corneal sensation loss in TCRα-/- recipients by day 8 p . An increase in total cell number was observed for CD4+ but not CD8+ T cells upon adoptive transfer of purified CD3+ T cells into TCRα-/- recipient mice  . Consistent with this observation , our data show that transfer of CD3+ T cells from HSV-infected mice have no appreciable impact on HSV-1 titers in the TG of TCRα-/- recipients by day 8 p . Notably , bulk transfer of HSV-specific CD8+ T cells has been shown to reduce viral burden in the peripheral nervous system of C57BL/6 mice during acute HSV-1 infection  . Our collective findings reveal that C3 and T cells are individually necessary and interdependent in the pathogenesis of HSV-1-associated corneal sensation loss . Whether by direct or indirect mechanisms , these data support a paradigm in which C3 activation and T cell engagement coordinate corneal nerve damage in herpetic keratitis . Our data show that T cells contribute to corneal sensation loss during acute HSV-1 infection , yet whether this pathology is dependent upon CD4+ or CD8+ T cells remained unclear . To better discern the contributions of each subset , CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were harvested from infected WT mice , transferred into separate groups of TCRα-/- mice , and recipient mice subsequently infected with HSV-1 . Corneal sensation loss during acute HSV-1 infection was only observed upon reconstitution with CD4+ T cells  . Donor cell engraftment was confirmed by flow cytometry , although a statistically significant increase in cell number within the eye-draining MLN was only observed upon transfer of CD4+ T cells  . The requirement for antigen specificity was subsequently evaluated during acute HSV-1 infection by monitoring corneal sensation in WT and OT-II transgenic mice that generate ovalbumin  -specific CD4 T cells . Transgenic OT-II mice did not exhibit corneal sensation loss following infection despite evidence of bystander CD4+ T cell activation and recruitment into the cornea  . Adoptive transfer of CD4+ T cells from HSV-infected WT and OT-II mice into TCRα-/- recipients corroborated these findings  . Abrasion of the corneal epithelium , which is required to mediate infection in this model , induces local chemokine expression capable of recruiting T cells to the cornea even in the absence of viral infection  . Nonetheless , active corneal HSV-1 infection was necessary to provoke corneal sensation loss , as TCRα-/- mice reconstituted with CD4+ T cells harvested from HSV-infected WT mice did not elicit auto/allo-antigen-associated sensation loss within two weeks of corneal scratch injury   . Collectively , our data show that complement C3 and antigen-specific CD4+ T cells are simultaneously necessary to drive corneal sensation loss during HSV-1 infection . While local complement activation and regulation have been reported in the cornea in health and disease  , the expression profile and cellular sources of various complement components have not been investigated in the context of ocular HSV-1 infection . To this end , a modest array of complement component transcripts was evaluated by semiquantitative real-time PCR on corneal buttons from healthy and HSV-infected mice at day 2 and 7 p . Constitutive expression of complement receptor 2  has been reported in the corneal epithelium  , but variances in its expression during HSV-1 infection were not statistically significant across the time points evaluated  . Likewise , no differences in the local expression of various complement regulators were observed in HSV-infected corneas aside from the C1-inhibitor SerpinG1  . As C3 is the central component of the complement activation pathway , the cellular sources of complement C3 were evaluated in corneas infected with HSV-1 . Expression of C3 was noted in CD45+ leukocytes isolated from infected corneas , yet detection of C3 expression was lost when CSF1R+ cells were removed from the total CD45+ pool . Taken together , our data show that both tissue-resident non-hematopoietic cells and resident/infiltrating CSF1R+ leukocytes contribute to local C3 expression in the cornea during acute HSV-1 infection . Ocular HSV-1 infection amplifies local complement gene expression , yet whether local control of complement activation can be harnessed to prevent corneal nerve damage has not been explored . As a proof of concept , daily ocular cobra venom factor  treatment was explored as a putative method to deplete C3 and preserve corneal sensation during acute HSV-1 infection . Vehicle  -treated mice exhibited corneal sensation loss following HSV-1 infection , but CVF treatment preserved corneal sensation  . Protein levels of C3 remained near baseline in the cornea following CVF treatment during HSV-1 infection , yet vehicle-treated animals exhibited a 300–600% increase in C3 protein levels in the cornea at days 3 and 7 p . Ocular CVF treatment limited corneal edema during HSV-1 infection relative to the vehicle control  . , no difference in total CD45+ or CSF1R+ cells were observed in the cornea , yet there was a reduction in the total number of infiltrating CD4+ T cells  . , HSV-1 titers were similar in the corneas and TG comparing vehicle- and CVF-treated animals  . However , CVF treatment did not have any discernable impact on T cell expansion in the eye-draining MLN or the total number of circulating CXCR3+ CD4+ T cells in HSV-1 infected animals  . Collectively , these findings imply that complement-targeted therapeutics could be tailored for ophthalmic use to limit tissue inflammation and preserve corneal sensation . While complement C3 and antigen-specific CD4+ T cells appear to coordinate corneal sensation loss in herpetic keratitis , it remained to be determined whether this phenomenon was specific to HSV-1 infection . To this end , corneal sensation was measured independent of infection in two T cell-dependent ocular surface inflammatory diseases . Murine models of allergic eye disease  and ocular graft-versus-host disease  were employed to further delineate the hypothesized role of T cells in coordinating corneal nerve damage  . Clinical signs of ocular allergy developed as anticipated in OVA-challenged mice  , yet corneal sensation loss was not observed  . However , frank corneal nerve loss was not observed in AED  . Morphometric analysis of confocal image stacks confirmed the preservation of corneal nerve density during AED  , although CD3+ T cell numbers were elevated in sensitized animals relative to healthy controls  . Although clinical data show that corneal nerve remodeling can occur in patients with chronic ocular allergy  , allergy symptoms were not accompanied by frank loss of corneal mechano-sensation in the AED animal model . Corneal sensation was also evaluated in a T cell-dependent allogeneic model of chronic GVHD with systemic and ocular manifestations following hematopoietic stem cell  transplantation  . Onset of GVHD was established by transfer of BM with CD4+ T cells only , CD8+ T cells only , or both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells . Progressive corneal sensation loss was observed following transfer of CD4+ T cells with and without addition of CD8+ T cells . Addition of CD8+ T cells alone evoked a transient corneal sensation deficit that recovered by day 26 post-transplant . However , corneal sensation loss was not observed in the BM only control group  . External signs of ocular disease  were also apparent in groups receiving CD4+ T cells by the study endpoint  . Consistent with sensation loss , corneal nerve integrity was markedly reduced in groups receiving CD4+ T cells  . Morphometric analysis of confocal image stacks confirmed the CD4-dependent decrease in corneal nerve density  and concomitant increase in total CD3+ cells  . Taken together , our data show for the first time that corneal sensation loss occurs early in ocular GVHD and that this pathology is instigated in part by allogeneic CD4+ T cells . The pharmacologic impact of local CVF treatment on ocular GVHD progression was consequently explored in order to identify whether the CD4+ T cell-associated corneal sensation loss observed in both herpetic keratitis and ocular GVHD shared a common C3-codependent pathomechanism . Although CVF administration was limited to the eye , systemic serum C3 concentrations were lower in the GVHD cohort treated with CVF compared to the PBS-treated GVHD groups at the study endpoint . Nonetheless , the inverted CD4:CD8 T cell ratio  in the spleens and eye-draining mandibular lymph nodes of both groups of GVHD mice confirmed the presence of systemic disease  . Despite development of systemic disease , local CVF treatment preserved corneal nerve integrity and mechano-sensory function in ocular GVHD  . Morphometric analysis of confocal image stacks from the study endpoint corroborated the preservation of corneal nerve density in CVF-treated mice from the GVHD cohort  , although CVF did not reduce the number of total CD3+ cells during GVHD relative to PBS  . In summary , these preclinical models establish that CD4+ T cells and complement C3 coordinate corneal sensory nerve damage in both herpetic keratitis and ocular GHVD . Moreover , our data provide a proof of principle that complement-targeted therapeutics may limit the severity of immune-mediated sensory nerve damage at the ocular surface . The ocular surface is a unique milieu in which pharmacologic modulation of the complement pathway may limit the severity of inflammatory disease and improve clinical outcomes . This study provides proof of concept that such interventions may have important clinical impacts on ocular surface disease , and specifically neuropathic sensory disorders affecting the cornea . The current investigation provides an important advancement in this arena by demonstrating that dysregulated complement activation can specifically contribute to sensory nerve damage in the cornea . While corneal nerves are increasingly implicated in maintenance of corneal immune privilege  , this study is the first to identify that C3 is involved in the pathobiology of corneal sensory nerve damage . However , the individual fates of damaged corneal nerves were not explored herein . Likewise , promoting functional regeneration of damaged corneal nerves is important for restoration of immune privilege and ocular surface health . Our approach evaluated sensory nerve damage in murine models of T cell-dependent ocular surface disease including HSV-1 keratitis , OVA-induced AED , and ocular GHVD . The lack of a sensory phenotype in the AED model was unanticipated in light of evidence that patients with severe allergy exhibit changes in corneal nerve morphology  . This contrasting model underscores the context-dependency of sensation loss during corneal inflammation . While we focused on C3 in HSV-1 keratitis and ocular GVHD due to the direct link to overt corneal sensation loss , complement may still have an important role in mediating neurogenic hypersensitivities in AED . In addition to loss of mechano-sensory function , corneal nerve pathologies can involve a broad array of neuropathic clinical symptoms including dryness , itch , and pain  . Given the involvement of C3 activation in sensory nerve damage , future investigation into crosstalk between complement and other neurotropic factors in the cornea is warranted . Furthermore , AED is driven primarily by a combined Th2/Th17 CD4 T cell response that differs from the Th1 bias observed in HSV-1 keratitis and ocular GVHD  . This suggests that Th1 cytokines such as IFNγ , IL-2 , and lymphotoxin-alpha may be important in coordinating corneal sensation loss . Nonetheless , the unique inflammatory milieus and differential polarizations of cornea-infiltrating T cells across these disease models may also influence the downstream effects of complement activation in the tissue microenvironment  . While diabetic peripheral neuropathy can lead to neurotropic corneal ulcerations  , the role of complement in diabetic corneal disease is currently unknown . Complement enhances clearance of infected cells and nascent virions during HSV-1 infection  . Cell culture modeling indicates that neuronal cells maintain host-encoded complement regulator expression more efficiently and are more resistant to MAC deposition than epithelial cells upon HSV-1 infection  . Accordingly , complement-mediated sensory nerve damage in HSV-1 keratitis may reflect a maladaptive outcome of host-defense . This is consistent with our data showing that immunologically naive C3-/- mice maintain corneal sensation and innervation , yet they exhibit concomitant enhancement of viral shedding in the tear film and increased viral burden in the TG by day 7 p . Moreover , there is no difference in the amount of latent HSV-1 in the TG of naive WT and C3-/- mice 30 days after ocular HSV-1 challenge  . Taken together , this evidence indicates that although C3 is involved in progression of keratitis and sensory nerve fiber retraction during acute infection , it likely does not contribute to complete elimination of infected nerves . The studies reported herein involve immunologically naive mice , but the impacts of preexisting humoral immune responses on complement pathway activation and regulation in the cornea during HSV-1 infection remain incompletely understood . This point is of considerable importance clinically , as herpes-associated neurotropic keratitis typically develops as a result of recurrent corneal infections in patients  . Furthermore , we have recently reported that C3 is essential for optimal antibody-dependent viral clearance following ocular HSV-1 challenge in mice  . While vaccinated animals did not exhibit corneal sensation loss following ocular HSV-1 infection in those studies , deposition of the terminal C3 cleavage product C3d was present in the corneal epithelium  . Host gene expression data herein corroborates that HSV-1 infection creates an imbalance in the local complement effector to regulator expression ratios that contribute to aberrant complement pathway activation in the cornea . This imbalance in ‘complement proteostasis’ may favor deposition of complement fragments and sublytic MAC on corneal sensory nerve fibers  . Future work is needed to identify the respective complement activation pathways involved in pathologic and protective immune responses to HSV-1 in the cornea . Identification of the complement pathway’s role in initiating corneal sensation loss following HSV-1 infection is an important advancement in the mechanistic understanding of this disease process , as it introduces an array of potential drug targets for local therapy . The identification of CSF1R+ macrophages/monocytes as a local source of C3 during infection  is also critical , as these cells are recruited to the cornea in the early stages of HSV-1 infection and are associated with corneal nerve damage in HSV-1 keratitis  . Our data corroborate findings from the Hendricks’ lab showing that CD4 T cells are associated with corneal sensation loss in HSV-1 keratitis  , yet our adoptive transfer experiments establish that this process is not dependent upon endogenous C3 production by cornea-infiltrating donor T cells  . Corneal sensation loss in HSV-1 infection and ocular GVHD shared a common mechanism dependent upon CD4+ T cells and complement C3 . Our ex vivo re-stimulation data clearly show that there is no defect in IFNγ production by CD4 T cells from C3-/- mice following HSV-1 infection . The precise relationships between T cells and C3 in our mouse models of corneal neuropathic disease remain to be identified . Our working hypothesis involves an indirect mechanism whereby sublytic MAC deposition from local complement activation damages sensory nerves , which are then cleared by T cell-activated phagocytes or other cytolytic cells . These could include tissue-resident and infiltrating leukocytes  as well as nerve-associated corneal epithelial cells  . Emerging evidence indicates that the plasma membranes of corneal nerves and epithelial cells fuse thereby enabling cytosolic exchange  . In light of this , it is plausible that complement-mediated damage to corneal epithelial cells has a direct impact on sensory nerves . Although corneal nerve damage is an established pathology in animal models of HSV-1 infection  , this is the first report documenting loss of corneal mechano-sensory function in ocular GVHD . Corneal sensation loss may provide a clinical benchmark for initiation of targeted therapies to curb progression of ocular GVHD in patients . Data from our animal model of GVHD suggest that corneal sensation loss is an early warning sign of progressive ocular and systemic GVHD . Corneal sensation measurements are warranted in patients following HSCT to substantiate this finding among those who develop chronic GVHD . Published imaging studies confirm that corneal nerve remodeling occurs in patients with ocular GVHD  ; therefore , clinical studies to delineate the kinetics of disease onset are needed . Complement C3 is a known driver of systemic GVHD  , and our data show that aberrant complement pathway activation also contributes to the pathogenesis of ocular GVHD including corneal sensation loss . Furthermore , localized CVF treatment preserved corneal sensation in both sexes during ocular GVHD , but treatment only abrogated other facets of ocular surface disease in female mice . Collectively , our data suggest that sensory nerve involvement may be a unique facet and treatment target in ocular GVHD . Accordingly , we used CVF to target complement activation in models of HSV-1 keratitis and ocular GVHD as a proof of concept for local delivery of complement-targeted therapeutics for ocular surface disease . Local CVF treatment reduced corneal T cell infiltration following HSV-1 infection  . Likewise , ocular CVF treatment in the GVHD model did not impact on the total numbers of T cells in the corneas at the experiment endpoint . Nonetheless , CVF administration preserved corneal sensation in both disease models . Low-level complement turnover is observed in healthy corneas/tears , and complement may even contribute to the relative ‘paucibacterial’ state of the ocular surface microbiome  . Elucidation of how complement activation is triggered , the relevant molecular mechanisms of its downstream signaling , and contributions to pathology will promote an important advancement in drug development for ocular surface disease . Animal models are necessary for mechanistic studies when it comes to understanding complement pathway regulation , especially in dynamic tissue microenvironments; however , differences in complement regulation exist between mouse and man that will also have to be resolved to further assess the translational potential  . Our data herein have demonstrated successful prophylactic intervention in repressing complement-mediated sensory nerve pathology in two well characterized experimental T cell-dependent corneal disease models . Successful implementation of complement-targeted therapeutics for topical ophthalmic use may provide the benefit of controlling insidious ocular surface diseases without the risks associated with systemic therapies . For all procedures relating to ocular HSV-1 infection , C57BL/6-background mice were anesthetized with ketamine and xylazine and euthanized by cardiac perfusion  . Corneal complement C3 depletion was achieved by subconjunctival injection of CVF  followed by topical maintenance dosing as described in respective figure legends . Corneal nerves were imaged in flat-mounted corneal buttons as described  . Confocal z-stack images were evaluated using Imaris software  to quantify corneal nerves densities and the total numbers of CD3+ cells . "
"Patients with mutations in HOIL1  present with amylopectinosis-associated myopathy with or without hyper-inflammation and immunodeficiency . We report that barrier-raised HOIL-1-deficient mice exhibit amylopectin-like deposits in the myocardium but show minimal signs of hyper-inflammation . However , they show immunodeficiency upon acute infection with Listeria monocytogenes , Toxoplasma gondii or Citrobacter rodentium . Increased susceptibility to Listeria was due to HOIL-1 function in hematopoietic cells and macrophages in production of protective cytokines . In contrast , HOIL-1-deficient mice showed enhanced control of chronic Mycobacterium tuberculosis or murine γ-herpesvirus 68  , and these infections conferred a hyper-inflammatory phenotype . Surprisingly , chronic infection with MHV68 complemented the immunodeficiency of HOIL-1 , IL-6 , Caspase-1 and Caspase-1;Caspase-11-deficient mice following Listeria infection . Thus chronic herpesvirus infection generates signs of auto-inflammation and complements genetic immunodeficiency in mutant mice , highlighting the importance of accounting for the virome in genotype-phenotype studies . HOIL-1  , HOIP  and SHARPIN form the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex  , which linearly ubiquitinates receptor signaling complex components such as NEMO to enhance NF-κB activation after engagement of immune receptors including TNF-R1 , IL-1R , CD40 , TLRs and NOD2  . Recently , HOIL-1/LUBAC was also shown to be important for activation of the NLRP3/ASC inflammasome in macrophages via linear ubiquitination of ASC  . These data suggest that HOIL-1 plays multiple roles in inflammation and infection . In mice , SHARPIN deficiency results in auto-inflammation involving multiple organs including the liver , esophagus , lung and , most noticeably , chronic proliferative dermatitis of the skin  . However , HOIL-1-deficient mice have not been analyzed extensively to date . Sixteen patients with bi-allelic mutations in the gene encoding HOIL-1 have been reported  . Three patients exhibited cardiomyopathy , amylopectinosis , hyper-inflammation and mild immunodeficiency associated with an increased frequency of bacterial infections , whereas other patients presented with amylopectinosis and myopathy alone  . The role of HOIL-1 in inflammation and immunity to infection in vivo is , therefore , uncertain . Although there are multiple possible explanations for the variable clinical presentations of the reported patients including hypomorphic expression of HOIL-1 or effects of mutations on protein function , another possibility was that environmental factors alter the clinical presentation of HOIL-1 deficiency . In this study we define the function of HOIL-1 in murine immunity to infection and explore the potential role of the virome in determining HOIL-1 deficiency-associated phenotypes . Within the virome , herpesviruses persistently infect most humans , and exert significant effects on innate immunity in mice during experimental chronic infection , including increasing resistance to tumors and a range of pathogens  . However , the potential effects of chronic infection on the phenotypic manifestations of immune deficiencies have not been considered . In this study , we show that chronic herpesvirus infection can alter the presentation of several genetic immunodeficiencies in mice . We first found that , in naïve mice , HOIL-1 is essential during infection with Listeria monocytogenes , Toxoplasma gondii and Citrobacter rodentium and for efficient induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines that are known to be essential for resistance to lethal infection by hematopoietic cells during Listeria infection . In contrast , HOIL-1 knock-out  mice , with null mutations in the Rbck1 gene that encodes HOIL-1 , were resistant to infection with murine γ-herpesvirus 68  and Mycobacterium tuberculosis . Although HOIL-1 KO mice raised in a barrier facility did not display signs of auto-inflammation , chronic infection with MHV68 or M . tuberculosis resulted in elevated inflammatory cytokines circulating in the serum , similar to that observed in some patients with mutations in RBCK1  . Interestingly , latent infection with MHV68 rescued HOIL-1 deficient mice from lethality during Listeria infection and induced high levels of the protective cytokine , interferon-gamma  . MHV68 latency also protected IL-6 , Caspase-1 and Caspase-1;Caspase-11 deficient mice from Listeria-induced lethality , indicating that the ability of latent infection to complement a genetic immunodeficiency is not restricted to mutation of Hoil-1 . These data indicate that chronic infections can modify the clinical presentations of genetic variations , thereby opening a new avenue for the analysis and interpretation of human genotype-phenotype association studies . We speculate that the protective effect of chronic herpesvirus infection is due to the stimulation of the function of the innate immune system in a manner that compensates for deficient early cytokine responses associated with multiple immunodeficiencies . HOIL-1 KO mice  were born at Mendelian ratios and , in contrast to SHARPIN-deficient mice , failed to develop TNFα-driven inflammatory skin disease  and exhibited normal histology of lymphoid organs , liver , lung , and kidney , and the presence of Peyer's patches along the small intestine  . Aged HOIL-1 KO mice exhibited deposits of material that stained with periodic acid-Schiff reagent and was resistant to digestion with diastase , similar to the amylopectin-like material observed in humans with HOIL-1 deficiency   . In this regard , HOIL-1 KO mice exhibited normal numbers of lymphoid and myeloid cells in the spleen and thymus , normal complete blood counts  , and no detectable increase of tumor necrosis factor alpha  or interleukin 6  in serum  . However , in the peritoneum , HOIL-1 KO mice contained about twofold more B cells , T cells and resident macrophages without changes in other cell types  . To determine the requirement for HOIL-1 during the immune response to infection in vivo , we challenged HOIL-1 KO mice with a number of different pathogens . Strikingly , HOIL-1 KO mice were highly susceptible to even low dose infection with the facultative gram-positive intracellular bacterium , Listeria monocytogenes  , with 80% , 80% and 50% of mice succumbing to infection within 10 days of intraperitoneal  inoculation with 105 , 104 and 103 CFU , respectively  . Although bacterial burdens in the spleens and livers of control and HOIL-1 KO mice were similar 1 and 3 days post-infection with 105 CFU , bacterial CFUs were elevated in HOIL-1 KO mice by 6 days post-infection , indicating that HOIL-1 KO mice were unable to control and clear the bacteria  . Further , these mutant mice developed large inflammatory lesions in the liver , elevated liver enzymes in the serum , and widespread tissue destruction in the spleen  . HOIL-1 KO mice are highly susceptible to acute infection with Listeria monocytogenes , Toxoplasma gondii and Citrobacter rodentium . Survival of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice following i . inoculation with 105  , 104  or 103  CFU Listeria strain EGD . Listeria CFU in spleen and liver from control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice infected with 105 CFU i . Each symbol represents an individual mouse and the mean log10 CFU is indicated . Survival of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice following inoculation with 5000  or 100  tachyzoites T . Log10 total flux  as a measure of parasite burden 8 days post-infection with 100 tachyzoites . Survival  and weight  of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice following oral gavage with 2 × 109 CFU C . Comparison of RBCK1/HOIL1 alleles from RBCK1/HOIL1-mutant patients . HOIL1L/RBCK1 isoform 2  was used for annotation . Myocardium from aged HOIL-1 KO mice contains amylopectin-like deposits . Representative PAS  , PAS plus diastase digestion  and H&E-stained sections of myocardium from 18 month-old HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice . Analysis of hematopoietic cell populations from naïve HOIL-1 KO mice . Flow cytometric analysis of cell populations in the spleen  , thymus  and peritoneum  of HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice . Complete blood counts from HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice . WBC , white blood cells , ×103/mm3 , RBC , red blood cells , ×106/mm3; HGB , hemoglobin , g/dl; HCT , hematocrit , %; MCV , mean corpuscular volume , µm3; MCH , mean corpuscular hemoglobin , pg; MCHC , mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration , %; Seg Neu , segmented neutrophils , %; Lymphos , lymphocytes , % , Monos , monocytes , % . Hoil1/Rbck1 and neighboring gene  transcript expression in control and HOIL-1 KO bone marrow derived macrophages . Pathology of HOIL-1 KO mice during Listeria infection . Alanine aminotransferase  and aspartate aminotransferase  levels in serum from control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice 6 days after infection with 105 CFU Listeria . 011 HOIL-1 KO mice were also highly susceptible to infection with a relatively avirulent type II strain of the intracellular apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii   . Despite infection with 5000 parasites resulting in lethality in only 20% of control mice , 100 parasites was sufficient to induce lethality in 100% of HOIL-1 KO mice . Quantification of parasite-encoded luciferase expression in vivo revealed that HOIL-1 KO mice failed to control T . gondii replication by 8 days post-infection  . HOIL-1 KO mice also succumbed to infection with the enteric gram-negative pathogen Citrobacter rodentium , whereas control mice were highly resistant  . These data indicated that loss of HOIL-1 expression confers profound immunodeficiency in barrier-raised mice . To define the role of HOIL-1 in immunity , we examined the response to Listeria in more detail . One patient with HOIL-1-associated immunodeficiency showed signs of recovery from hyper-inflammation after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation  . In mice , reciprocal bone marrow transplantation revealed that expression of HOIL-1 in radiation-sensitive hematopoietic cells was critical for resistance to Listeria  . We noted that control mice that received control bone marrow were slightly more susceptible to infection than non-irradiated control mice  , suggesting that reconstitution does not fully restore the immune system of a lethally irradiated mouse to that of a non-irradiated animal . Despite this caveat , irradiated wild-type control mice that received HOIL-1 KO bone marrow and were challenged with 105 Listeria 8 weeks later succumbed to infection at the same rate as HOIL-1 KO mice that had received HOIL-1 KO bone marrow . HOIL-1 KO mice that received control bone marrow had an increased survival rate , but still succumbed more readily than control mice that received control bone marrow . These data indicate that , while HOIL-1 expression is essential in bone marrow-derived cells , HOIL-1 may also play a role in radiation resistant cells during Listeria infection . HOIL-1 is required in an innate immune cell compartment during Listeria infection . Survival of control and HOIL-1 KO reciprocal bone marrow chimeric mice following infection with 105 CFU Listeria . Survival of RAG1 KO HOIL-1 WT  and RAG1 KO HOIL-1 KO  mice following infection with 104 CFU Listeria . Listeria CFU in spleen and liver from RAG1 KO HOIL-1 WT  and RAG1 KO HOIL-1 KO  mice infected with 104 CFU for 3 days . Confirmation of hematopoietic reconstitution of bone marrow chimeric mice . Percent Hoil1/Rbck1+/+  and percent Hoil1/Rbck1−/−  genomic DNA  in peripheral blood from control and HOIL-1 KO reciprocal bone marrow chimeric mice determined by qPCR . HOIL-1 KO mice are capable of generating an adaptive immune response to Listeria . Listeria titers in spleen and liver of naïve  or pre-immunized  control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria for 3 days . 014 To determine whether HOIL-1 deficiency resulted in a defect in innate or adaptive immunity , we bred the HOIL-1 KO mice onto a RAG1-deficient background . T and B cell-deficient RAG1 HOIL-1 double KO mice succumbed to infection significantly faster than RAG1 KO mice  , and exhibited elevated bacterial burden in the spleen and liver 3 days post-infection  , indicating that HOIL-1 plays an essential role in innate immunity during Listeria infection . Indeed , HOIL-1-deficient mice succumbed to infection at the same rate regardless of the presence or absence of the adaptive immune system  . Further , HOIL-1 KO mice immunized with a low dose of Listeria were capable of mounting a protective adaptive response to a high dose secondary challenge with Listeria 28 days later  . was a borderline dose required to successfully immunize control mice in our experiments , despite being sufficient to induce lethality in 50% of HOIL-1 KO mice  . Together , these data do not rule out a role for HOIL-1 in adaptive immunity , but show that HOIL-1 plays a major role in hematopoietic cells to foster innate immunity to Listeria infection . Innate immunity to Listeria in mice depends on tissue-resident macrophages and CD8α+ dendritic cells responding to Listeria infection by secreting pro-inflammatory cytokines including TNFα , IL-12 , and IL-6 . These cytokines are each well recognized to be essential for survival after Listeria infection  through their role in coordinating activation of NK cells , NKT cell and T cells to produce IFNγ required for the bactericidal activity of phagocytic cells . Therefore , to further define a role for HOIL-1 in the innate immune system , we determined whether HOIL-1 KO bone marrow-derived macrophages  produced cytokines in response to Listeria infection with or without IFNγ treatment . Compared to control cells , HOIL-1 KO macrophages secreted only 50% , 20% and 10% of the expected levels of TNFα , IL-6 and IL-12p70 protein , respectively  . Consistent with a role for HOIL-1 in the activation of the NF-κB transcription factor following TLR stimulation , Listeria-infected HOIL-1 KO macrophages expressed decreased levels of Tnf , Il6 and Il12b mRNA  . The defects in cytokine transcript levels were of smaller magnitude than the decreases in secreted protein , particularly for Tnf , suggesting that HOIL-1 may also be involved in cytokine translation or secretion . However , HOIL-1 KO macrophages killed Listeria after activation with IFNγ as effectively as control cells , indicating the selectivity of HOIL-1 effects on macrophage function  . HOIL-1 is important for induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines following Listeria infection . TNFα  , IL-6  and IL-12p70  protein in macrophage culture supernatants following infection with Listeria  ± IFNγ co-treatment . Induction of Tnf , Il6 and Il12b transcripts in macrophages over 12 hr following infection with Listeria plus IFNγ . Data represent the mean ± SEM of macrophages derived from two mice per genotype analyzed in triplicate and are representative of at least three independent experiments . Induction of cytokine transcripts in peritoneal cells over 12 hr following infection of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice with 105 Listeria . HOIL-1 is not required for listericidal activity of bone marrow-derived macrophages . Growth and killing of Listeria in untreated or IFNγ-pre-treated control and HOIL-1 KO macrophages at 0 and 6 hr post-infection . Analysis of peritoneal cell populations following Listeria infection . Flow cytometric analysis of peritoneal cell populations in control  and HOIL-1 KO mice  over 12 hr after infection with 105 CFU i . HOIL-1 is important for induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines by innate cells following Listeria infection in vivo . Induction of cytokine transcripts in peritoneal cells from uninfected  RAG1 KO HOIL-1 WT  and RAG1 KO HOIL-1 KO  mice or 3 hr after infection with 104 Listeria . 018 We confirmed that induction of Tnf and Il6 mRNA was significantly impaired following Listeria infection in vivo by measuring cytokine transcripts in peritoneal cells from mice 3 to 12 hr after infection  . Surprisingly , Il12b transcript levels were similar in HOIL-1 KO mice , with a significant difference being detected at only 6 hr after infection . Similar decreases in Tnf and Il6 mRNA were observed in mice on the Rag1−/− background at 3 hr post-infection , confirming that these differences are due to a defect in innate immunity in the absence of HOIL-1  . We also noted that fewer NK cells and neutrophils were present in the peritoneum 6 hr after Listeria infection , suggesting delayed recruitment or proliferation of these cell types  . These decreases in cytokine production and delayed cell recruitment likely synergize with defects in IL-1β and TNFα signaling observed by others  to compromise antibacterial immunity , and may contribute to the impaired induction of Ifng mRNA observed by 12 hr  . These data indicate that HOIL-1 plays a critical role in coordinating essential early cytokine responses after Listeria infection . The above data demonstrate that HOIL-1 KO mice have a severe immunodeficiency after certain types of infection . To assess the generality of this phenotype we infected HOIL-1 KO mice with murine γ-herpesvirus 68  , a genetic relative of the common persistent human herpesviruses , Epstein–Barr virus and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus   . HOIL-1 KO mice survived MHV68 infection for at least 3 months . MHV68 replication was unaffected by HOIL-1 deficiency in cultured macrophages , and was suppressed only slightly in vivo  . Despite normal establishment of latency as determined by the number of cells carrying MHV68 genome 28 days after infection  , the efficiency of MHV68 reactivation from latency in explanted peritoneal cells was significantly impaired  . Similarly , HOIL-1 KO mice failed to succumb to infection with M . tuberculosis over 70 days of infection , and in fact exhibited lower bacterial colony counts in the spleen while counts in the lung were no different than controls  . Thus HOIL-1 KO mice are fully able to control , and may have an enhanced ability to control , specific aspects of acute and chronic MHV68 and M . tuberculosis infection , in striking contrast to the immunodeficiency apparent after infection with Listeria , Toxoplasma , and Citrobacter . Enhanced inflammatory response and control of MHV68 and M . tuberculosis by HOIL-1 KO mice . Limiting dilution assay of peritoneal cells from control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice infected with MHV68 for 28 days onto mouse embryonic fibroblast monolayers to measure the frequency of cells capable of MHV68 reactivation . Data represent the mean from three independent experiments each with cells combined from three mice/group . Statistical analyses were performed by calculating the number of control and HOIL-1 KO cells required for 63 . tuberculosis titers in the lung and spleen of HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice 70 days post-infection . TNFα , IL-6 , IL-12/IL-23p40 and IFNγ protein detected in serum from naïve or latently-infected  control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice . TNFα , IL-6 , IL-12/IL-23p40 and IFNγ protein in serum from mice from  . Acute MHV68 replication in vitro and in vivo is minimally affected by HOIL-1-deficiency . MHV68 growth in HOIL-1 KO  and control  bone marrow-derived macrophages with  or without  IFNγ pre- and post-treatment . MHV68 titers in spleen during acute infection of HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice . Establishment of MHV68 latency is similar in control and HOIL-1 KO mice . Limiting dilution PCR to determine the frequency of peritoneal cells from latently infected  HOIL-1 KO  and control  mice containing MHV68 genomes . Data represent the mean from three independent experiments each with cells combined from three mice/group . Statistical analyses were performed by calculating the number of control and HOIL-1 KO cells required for 63 . 005 The ability of HOIL-1 KO mice to effectively control chronic herpesvirus infection allowed us to test the hypothesis that persistent virus infection might alter two phenotypes , hyper-inflammation and immunodeficiency , in which HOIL-1 KO mice appear to differ from some reported patients with bi-allelic mutations in RBCK1   . Notably , patients with HOIL-1 deficiency and hyper-inflammation exhibited increased expression of IL-6 and TNFα in the serum and increased expression of mRNA for Il6 in blood cells  . We therefore examined the serum of MHV68-infected HOIL-1 KO mice for cytokines essential for resistance to Listeria but deficient in Listeria-infected HOIL-1 KO mice . As previously observed  , latent infection of control mice with MHV68 was associated with an increase in circulating levels of TNFα , IL-6 , IL-12 and IFNγ compared with uninfected mice  . In HOIL-1 KO mice , MHV68 latently resulted in small but significant increases in TNFα , IL-6 and IL-12p70 levels , and a more striking increase in IFNγ levels compared to latently infected controls . HOIL-1 KO mice chronically infected with M . tuberculosis also exhibited increased expression of both IL-6 and TNFα in serum at 70 days post-infection  . Therefore , there is an overlap between cytokines expressed in hyper-inflammatory patients and in chronically-infected HOIL-1 KO mice . MHV68 latency has been shown previously to induce symbiotic protection against Listeria infection in wild-type mice  . Because expression of TNFα , IL-6 and IFNγ are essential for control of Listeria infection in mice  , and were impaired in Listeria-infected HOIL-1 KO mice  , but elevated in MHV68-infected HOIL-1 KO mice , we considered whether chronic MHV68 infection could complement the profound immunodeficiency observed in Listeria-infected barrier-raised HOIL-1 KO mice . As observed previously  , MHV68 latency , 1 month after infection , protected control mice from an otherwise lethal dose of Listeria  . MHV68 latency also protected HOIL-1 KO mice from a dose of Listeria at least 1000-fold higher than the LD50 for MHV68-negative mice  . Both control and HOIL-1 KO mice were still partially protected from Listeria challenge 6 months after MHV68 infection  . A viral mutant capable of acute lytic infection but unable to efficiently establish latency   was unable to efficiently protect HOIL-1 KO or control mice from Listeria infection , demonstrating that latent MHV68 is required to complement HOIL-1-associated immunodeficiency to Listeria  . MHV68 latency rescues HOIL-1 KO , IL-6 , Caspase-1 and Caspase-1;Caspase-11-deficient mice from Listeria-induced lethality . Survival of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria 28 days following mock infection  or infection with 106 PFU MHV68  . Survival of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria 28 days following intranasal mock infection  or infection with 5 × 104 PFU wild-type  or ORF73 . Significantly different groups were: control mock infected and control MHV68wt infected , control mock infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68wt infected , control mock infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68orf73 . stop infected , HOIL-1 KO mock infected and control MHV68wt infected , HOIL-1 KO mock infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68wt infected , control MHV68wt infected and control MHV68orf73 . stop infected , control MHV68wt infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68orf73 . stop infected , HOIL-1 KO MHV68wt infected and control MHV68orf73 . stop infected , HOIL-1 KO MHV68wt infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68orf73 . stop infected , control MHV68orf73 . stop infected and HOIL-1 KO MHV68orf73 . Cytokine transcript levels in peritoneal cells from mock  and MHV68-infected  control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice  . Induction of cytokine transcripts in peritoneal cells from mock  and MHV68-infected  control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice  3 hr after infection with 105 Listeria . Survival of control  and Il6−/−  mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria 28 days following mock infection  or infection with 106 PFU MHV68  . Survival of control  , Caspase-1;Caspase-11  and Caspase-1  –deficient mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria 28 days following mock infection  or infection with 106 PFU MHV68  . MHV68 latency-induced cross-protection is maintained for at least 6 months . Survival of control  and HOIL-1 KO  mice challenged with 106 CFU Listeria 6 months after mock infection  or infection with 106 PFU MHV68  . Control mock vs HOIL-1 KO mock , p = 0 . 1824; control mock vs control MHV68 infected , p = 0 . 0408; control mock vs HOIL-1 KO MHV68 infected , p = 0 . 0070; HOIL-1 KO mock vs control MHV68 infected , p = 0 . 0028; HOIL-1 KO mock vs HOIL-1 KO MHV68 infected , p = 0 . 0003; control MHV68 infected vs HOIL-1 KO MHV68 infected , p = 0 . MHV68 latency enhances the listericidal activity of peritoneal macrophages . Listeria CFU in control  and HOIL-1 KO  ex vivo cultures of peritoneal macrophages from mock  or MHV68-infected  mice at 0 and 6 hr post-infection . Cells from the same mouse were used for both 0 hr and 6 hr time points . Il6−/− mice have increased susceptibility to Listeria infection . Survival of control  and Il6−/−  mice following i . inoculation with 105 CFU Listeria . 022 To determine whether MHV68 latency rescued pro-inflammatory cytokine induction by HOIL-1 KO mice following Listeria infection , we quantitated cytokine transcripts in peritoneal cells from latently infected mice before  and 3 hr after  infection with Listeria . As predicted from the cytokine levels in the serum , MHV68 latency resulted in small but significant increases in Tnf , Il6 and Il12b transcripts prior to Listeria challenge  . While MHV68 latency did not rescue the induction of Tnf or Il6 transcripts in HOIL-1 KO mice following infection with Listeria , Il12b transcript levels were increased approximately twofold , and were comparable to levels in control mice . More significantly , Ifng and Nos2  transcripts were elevated approximately 200-fold and 1000-fold , respectively , in latently infected control and HOIL-1 KO mice  , and further induced by 3 hr after infection with Listeria  . Ifng transcript levels were significantly higher in latently infected HOIL-1 KO mice following infection with Listeria than in control mice . These data suggest that MHV68 latency by-passes the requirement for TNFα and IL-6 during early Listeria infection by enhancing the induction of IFNγ and downstream effector molecules important for controlling Listeria infection . To test whether peritoneal macrophages from latently infected HOIL-1 KO mice had an increased capacity to kill Listeria , we explanted peritoneal macrophages from mock or latently infected mice , infected them with Listeria , killed extracellular bacteria with gentamycin treatment , and compared the number of CFU at 6 hr to the number of CFU at the beginning of the experiment . As expected , cells from mock infected control mice exhibited mild listericidal activity and cells from latently infected control mice had an enhanced ability to kill Listeria ( Figure 5—figure supplement 2 ,  ) . Macrophages from mock-infected HOIL-1 KO mice had a slightly impaired ability to control Listeria infection . However , MHV68 latency in HOIL-1 KO mice enhanced the ability of macrophages to kill Listeria , generating a capacity to kill similar to that observed with macrophages from control mice . Together , these data suggest that MHV68 latency induces an environment that enhances the ability of HOIL-1-deficient cells to kill and respond to Listeria . To determine whether the viral complementation of immunodeficiency was unique to HOIL-1 , we latently infected IL-6 , Caspase-1-deficient and Caspase-1;Caspase-11-double-deficient mice  , which survive MHV68 infection but are all highly susceptible to Listeria infection   . IL-6 , Caspase-1 and Caspase-1;Caspase-11-deficient mice were also protected from lethality following Listeria infection by chronic MHV68 infection  . These data indicate that the capacity of chronic MHV68 to reverse a significant immunodeficiency is not restricted to mutations in Rbck1  , and suggest that chronic viral infections may alter phenotypes of many host allelic variants . We report that HOIL-1 is essential during infection with Listeria , T . rodentium , but not with MHV68 or M . Expression of HOIL-1 was critical in innate , hematopoietic-derived cells during Listeria infection in vivo . The requirement of HOIL-1 for the induction of protective inflammatory cytokines , TNFα , IL-6 and IL-12 , following infection of macrophages with Listeria in vitro is consistent with reports that LUBAC is required for efficient NF-κB activation following TLR engagement  , but not with a recent report that NF-κB activation following stimulation of TLR4 and TNF-R1 on macrophages by LPS and TNFα , respectively , is unaffected by HOIL-1 deficiency  . These apparently conflicting results suggest that HOIL-1 and LUBAC may not only have cell-type specific functions  , but also stimulus-specific roles that vary between different cell types . This may be further highlighted by the excessive inflammatory response and enhanced control of MHV68 and M . tuberculosis infection—two pathogens that also infect macrophages—by HOIL-1-deficient mice . It has been proposed that low levels of viral reactivation during MHV68 latency are responsible for the low level of constant immune activation and cytokine production  . It is paradoxical , then , that reactivation is almost undetectable in HOIL-1-deficient animals , and yet their inflammatory response is elevated . Since the negative regulator of NF-κB signaling , A20 , binds to linear ubiquitin chains  , HOIL-1/LUBAC may also be important for recruiting A20 to receptor signaling complexes to turn off signaling . Therefore , receptor signaling may be sustained in cells in HOIL-1 KO mice , resulting in the increase in TNFα , IL-6 and IL-12 , and ultimately IFNγ protein , observed in the serum of chronically infected mice . Decreased viral reactivation may be the result of this increased IFNγ , the inability of latently infected cells to response to a stimulus of reactivation or a combination thereof . It is unclear why HOIL-1 KO mice are extremely susceptible to some pathogens , yet control other infections remarkably well . This might be due to HOIL-1/LUBAC having differential roles in transducing signals from different immune sensors stimulated by different infections . Other possibilities include a differential requirement for the innate immune system to hold the acute infection in check while an adaptive response is being generated , the speed at which the pathogen replicates , the tissues that it damages , and whether pathology during acute infection is mostly immune- or pathogen-derived . We further show that chronic infection with MHV68 rescued HOIL-1 , IL-6 , Caspase-1 and Caspase-1;Caspase-11-deficient mice from lethal Listeria infection , thereby masking the genetic immunodeficiency observed in MHV68-negative mice . As reported previously  , MHV68 latency was associated with increased basal levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFα , IL-6 , IL-12 and IFNγ in the serum of wild-type animals , which were further increased in HOIL-1 KO mice . These cytokines appear to increase the activation status of the innate immune system such that their induction following Listeria infection is no longer as important as would be the case in a naïve mouse . Indeed , MHV68 infection did not enhance the transcription of Tnf , and only marginally enhanced the transcription of Il6 and Il12b even in control mice following Listeria infection , and did not rescue the defect in Tnf and Il6 induction observed in HOIL-1 KO mice . Conversely , transcription of Ifng and the effector molecule , iNOS  , was elevated in cells from latently infected mice and enhanced substantially by both HOIL-1 KO and control animals very rapidly following infection with Listeria . Macrophages require priming with IFNγ to induce IL-12 in response to Listeria infection . In a latently infected animal , IFNγ is already present and so IL-12 and additional IFNγ may be induced more rapidly . Furthermore , as reported previously for wild-type mice  , MHV68 latency enhanced the ability of peritoneal macrophages from control and HOIL-1 KO mice to kill Listeria . Together , these data suggest that the constant presence of low levels of IFNγ driven by latent virus infection results in an increase in the basal expression levels of downstream effector molecules and the priming of cells for the enhanced immediate killing of Listeria upon infection , as well as for a more rapid further induction of IFNγ and its effector molecules in response to the bacterial challenge . In this sense , chronic virus infection sets the level of innate immunity to subsequent infection . HOIL-1 KO mice bred in a high grade barrier facility failed to exhibit certain phenotypes of HOIL-1 deficient patients , specifically by not exhibiting baseline hyper-inflammation and by displaying a striking immunodeficiency out of proportion to that observed in some humans with bi-allelic mutations in RBCK1  . Most humans are infected life-long with multiple herpesviruses  , and many also carry other chronic or latent infections such as tuberculosis . Importantly , we observed complementation of immunodeficiency to Listeria by chronic herpesvirus infection in four different strains of immunodeficient mice , revealing virus infection as one possible environmental factor that might alter the genotype-phenotype relationship for patients with mutations in immune system genes . HOIL-1 KO mice chronically infected with either a herpesvirus or M . tuberculosis also exhibited increases in some of the same cytokines reported in the serum of HOIL-1 deficient humans . At least three of the HOIL-1 mutant patients were infected with at least one herpesvirus  , and it is likely that other chronic infections were present . However , in the absence of data regarding the complete infection status of the HOIL-1 mutant patients , the relevance of the mouse studies to the human phenotypes is unclear . Nevertheless , perhaps the presence of the virome , and potentially variations in the virome or other chronic infections between people , confers significant phenotypic variation by complementing mutations in host genes responsible for innate immunity  . Survival from infection requires a trade-off between alleles that promote or limit inflammation to balance immunity vs immunopathology . We speculate that the virome or other chronic infections hide or enhance the effects of genetic variations in immune responsiveness by complementing chromosomal variations in immune response genes . As the nature of the virome changes in persons growing up in different cultural and economic environments , it is possible that the immunophenotype of the host changes , and the beneficial or deleterious effects of existing genetic variation are unmasked by removal of complementation provided by chronic virus infection . It is also plausible that the striking auto-inflammation observed in humans with a variety of immune defects could be due to even well controlled herpesvirus infection alone or in combination with other chronic infections . HOIL-1 KO mice , with null mutations in the Rbck1 gene that encodes HOIL-1 , have been described previously  . C57BL/6J mice or HOIL-1 WT littermates were used as wild type controls . Rag1−/− mice were purchased from The Jackson Laboratory  and bred to HOIL-1 KO mice . Il6−/− mice were purchased from The Jackson Laboratory . Caspase 1;Caspase 11-deficient mice with or without a Caspase 11 transgene were kindly provided by Vishva Dixit , Genentec , San Francisco USA . All mice were housed and bred at Washington University in Saint Louis in specific pathogen-free conditions in accordance with Federal and University guidelines and protocols were approved by the Animal Studies Committee of Washington University under protocol number 20140244 . Listeria glycerol stocks were stored at −80 °C , and thawed and diluted into PBS for intraperitoneal  injection into mice . Listeria CFU were counted after overnight growth at 37°C . MHV68 WUMS  , MHV68 ORF73 . For experiments involving MHV68 ORF73 . After 24 hr post infection , two mice per group were sacrificed , and lungs were harvested to determine infection efficiency , which was about 100 CFU/lung/mouse . Experimental mice were sacrificed 70 days after infection , and lungs and spleen were harvested for CFU , and serum was collected for cytokine analysis . MHV68 reactivation from latency and preformed virus was assayed as described previously  . Briefly , peritoneal exudate cells were plated in twofold serial dilutions  onto permissive mouse embryonic fibroblast  monolayers and scored for cytopathic effect  3 weeks later . To determine the frequency of cells harboring viral genome , peritoneal cells were assayed by nested PCR for viral genome as described previously  . Briefly , bone marrow was extracted from mouse femurs and allowed to differentiate in DMEM containing 10% FBS , 10% CMG14-12 cell-conditioned media as a source of M-CSF  , 5% horse serum , 1 mM sodium pyruvate and 2 mM L-Glutamine for 7 days . For cytokine and transcript analyses following Listeria infection of macrophages , adherent cells were scraped and seeded in tissue culture-treated plates in the absence of M-CSF . After 3 days , macrophages were infected with 106/ml Listeria in the presence or absence of 100 U/ml IFNγ . 2 hr post-infection , 50 U/ml Penicillin and 50 μg/ml streptomycin were added to kill the Listeria . For Listeria growth/killing assays , macrophages were seeded in non-tissue culture treated dishes in the absence of M-CSF . After 3 hr , cells were infected with 105/ml Listeria from an overnight standing culture and centifuged to synchronize the infection . Serial dilutions were plated on brain heart infusion agar plates , and Listeria CFU were counted after overnight growth at 37°C . For MHV68 growth analysis , adherent cells were scraped and seeded in tissue culture-treated plates in the presence of M-CSF . 1 U/ml IFNγ or untreated , and 12 hr later infected with MHV68 at a multiplicity of infection  of 0 . Cells were flushed from the peritoneum of mice that had been mock infected or infected with MHV68 for 32 days with ice cold DMEM containing 10% FBS and 2 mM L-Glutamine . Non-adherent cells were washed away with warm medium , and the remaining cells were infected with 105 CFU Listeria from a overnight standing culture by spinocculation at 600×g for 10 min at room temperature , and then incubated at 37 °C and 5% CO2 . Serial dilutions were plated on brain heart infusion agar plates , and Listeria CFU were counted after overnight growth at 37°C . Recipient mice were exposed to 1200 rad of whole body irradiation , and injected intravenously with 10 million whole bone marrow cells from donor mice . Mice were allowed to reconstitute for 8 to 10 weeks before Listeria challenge . Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood and analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR  for the presence of Rbck1/Hoil1 intron 7  , or the neomycin-resistance cassette  . Cytokines in mouse serum and cell supernatants were quantitated using a custom Procarta Immunoassay Kit  and analyzed on a Bio-Plex 200 System  or by ELISA  , respectively , according to the manufacturers’ instructions . Quantitative PCR was performed on a StepOnePlus machine using Power SYBR Green master mix  and primers specific for ribosomal protein S29  , Rbck1/Hoil-1  , Trib3  , Tbc1d20  , Il12b  , Tnf  , Il6  , Ifng  and iNos   . "
"Rapid and flexible interpretation of conflicting sensory inputs in the context of current goals is a critical component of cognitive control that is orchestrated by frontal cortex . To examine the dynamics underlying cognitive control across frontal regions , we took advantage of the spatiotemporal resolution of intracranial recordings in epilepsy patients while subjects resolved color-word conflict . We observed differential activity preceding the behavioral responses to conflict trials throughout frontal cortex; this activity was correlated with behavioral reaction times . These signals emerged first in anterior cingulate cortex  before dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  , followed by medial frontal cortex  and then by orbitofrontal cortex  . These results disassociate the frontal subregions based on their dynamics , and suggest a temporal hierarchy for cognitive control in human cortex . An important case of cognitive control arises when input stimuli elicit conflicting responses and subjects must select the task-relevant response despite competition from an often stronger but task-irrelevant response  . A canonical example of this type of conflict is the Stroop task: subjects are asked to name the font color of a word where the semantic meaning conflicts with the color signal  . The Stroop task is frequently used in cognitive neuroscience and clinical psychology and forms the foundation for theories of cognitive control . Neurophysiological , neuroimaging , and lesion studies have ascribed a critical role in cognitive control to networks within frontal cortex  , yet the neural circuit dynamics and mechanisms responsible for orchestrating control processes remain poorly understood . Lesion studies  , human neuroimaging measurements  , and macaque single unit recordings  implicate the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  in providing top-down signals to bias processing in favor of the task-relevant stimuli  . The medial frontal cortex  also participates in cognitive control , possibly in a conflict monitoring capacity  . Recordings and lesions studies in the macaque anterior cingulate cortex   suggest that ACC neurons are principally involved in monitoring for errors and making between-trial adjustments  —an idea that has received support by a recent study in the human ACC  . Recent work has also demonstrated that the supplementary motor area and the medial frontal cortex play an important role in monitoring for errors  . An alternative and influential theoretical framework posits that the ACC monitors for potential conflicts and subsequently directs the dlPFC to engage control processes  . Several human neuroimaging studies are consistent with this notion  but the relative contributions of dlPFC , mFC , and ACC to cognitive control remain a matter of debate  . Previously , some neuroimaging studies have suggested that these frontal cortex regions can be differentiated based on the presence or absence of conflict signals  . The challenge in dissociating the relative roles of these regions during Stroop-like tasks is that increased task difficulty recruits a host of executive functions  . We took advantage of the high spatiotemporal resolution of intracranial recordings in human epilepsy patients and the ability to record simultaneously from multiple regions to directly investigate the dynamics of conflict responses during cognitive control . We hypothesized that subregions of frontal cortex could be differentiated based on the temporal profile of their conflict responses . We recorded intracranial field potentials from 1397 electrodes in 15 subjects while they performed the Stroop task or a variation in which they were asked to read the word instead of focusing on its color . We observed conflict-selective activity throughout several regions in frontal cortex: ACC , mFC , dlPFC , and also orbitofrontal cortex  . Neural responses increased for incongruent compared to congruent trials , and these signals correlated with behavioral reaction time , depended on the task , and exhibited adaptation over trials . We compared pairs of simultaneously recorded electrodes to disassociate these different regions based on the timing of these conflict responses rather than their presence or absence . Conflict responses emerged first in the ACC and subsequently emerged in dlPFC and mFC and finally in OFC . We focused on 469 electrodes located in areas within frontal lobe which have been previously implicated in executive function: medial frontal cortex  , orbitofrontal cortex  , dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  and the anterior cingulate cortex  . We applied a non-parametric analysis of variance  to measure whether and when the physiological responses differed between congruent and incongruent trials . An electrode was considered conflict-selective if the F-statistic was greater than a significance threshold computed by a permutation test with P = 0 . Figure 2 shows an example electrode from the left Anterior Cingulate Cortex that responded differentially between congruent and incongruent trials during the Stroop task . During the Stroop task , the response-aligned signals were significantly stronger for the incongruent  trials compared to the congruent  trials  , and were invariant to the particular word/color combinations  . Incongruent trials could be discriminated from congruent trials at a latency of 669 ± 31 ms  before the onset of the response  . This conflict response was also specific to the Stroop task; there was a significant interaction between congruency and task  . We assessed the correlation between the neural signal strength and behavioral reaction times in single trials . The maximal gamma power during each incongruent trial  was positively correlated with the behavioral reaction times  . Example electrode in left Anterior Cingulate Cortex . Average gamma power signals aligned to the stimulus onset from an electrode during the Stroop task , for congruent  or incongruent  stimuli . For display purposes only , we z-scored the gamma power by subtracting the average and dividing by the standard deviation of power during the baseline period  . Single-trial data for congruent  and incongruent  trials . Each row is a trial , and the color indicates the z-scored gamma power  . Trials are sorted by behavioral response time  . Gamma power was better aligned to the behavioral response , and was stronger for incongruent compared to congruent trials . The dashed line indicates the response-aligned latency , defined as the first time point at which incongruent and congruent trials can be discriminated . There was a correlation between the maximal z-scored gamma power and behavioral reaction times during incongruent trials  . Conflict-selective electrode data . Example conflict-selective electrode in the right dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex . Here we show a different conflict selective electrode , located in the dlPFC  . Example conflict-selective electrode in the Orbitofrontal Cortex comparing responses in the Theta and Gamma Bands . Responses in the gamma power frequency band , z-scored . 009 Any differences between congruent and incongruent trials in the stimulus-aligned analyses can be confounded by the reaction time differences; therefore , we focus subsequent analyses on the response-aligned signals . Using the aforementioned criteria , we identified n = 51 conflict selective frontal cortex electrodes during the Stroop task , with contributions from 13 subjects  . These electrodes were distributed throughout different subregions within frontal cortex  . To evaluate whether random variation in the signals could give rise to apparent conflict-selective electrodes , we randomly shuffled the congruent/incongruent trial labels 10 , 000 times and applied the same statistical criteria  . The number of conflict-selective electrodes within each subregion was significantly greater than expected by chance  . In contrast with the Stroop task , we only observed n = 3 conflict-selective frontal cortex electrodes during the Reading task  , a number that is within the false positive rate . Location of conflict-selective electrodes  shown on a reference brain , with each region colored  . 011 To account for within-subject and across-subject variation , we used a multilevel model  to conduct a group analysis of the physiological responses , with electrodes nested within subjects  . Across the population , we observed a significant interaction between the factors congruency and task on the gamma power  . Consistent with the single electrode examples , gamma power was greater for incongruent compared to congruent trials , but only during the Stroop task  . Each electrode’s response was normalized by dividing the power during incongruent trials by the power in congruent trials  , computing the logarithm and finally pooling within each region . The pooled responses in the OFC are visually less compelling  due to the heterogeneity in the latency of the individual electrodes but the responses in the OFC were as vigorous as the ones in other areas  . Gamma power in frontal cortex correlates with behavior . Distribution of gamma power log-ratio  for the Stroop task  and Reading task  . Gamma power showed a significant interaction between Congruency and Task  . Power was larger for incongruent versus congruent trials during the Stroop task  but not during the Reading task  . Normalized gamma power log-ratio averaged across electrodes from each of the four different frontal cortex regions during the Stroop task . We divided the power during incongruent trials by the power during congruent trials , then computed the log and finally averaged across electrodes . Distribution of Pearson correlation coefficients between the maximal gamma power and behavioral reaction time during incongruent trials for n = 51 frontal cortex electrodes . For incongruent trials , there was a significant interaction between trial history and task  . Gamma power was larger for incongruent trials preceded by congruent trials  compared to incongruent trials preceded by incongruent trials  , particularly during the Stroop task  , compared to the Reading task  . For congruent trials , there was no interaction between trial history and task  . Gamma power was similar in congruent trials preceded by incongruent trials  compared to congruent trials preceded by congruent trials  during the Stroop task  and during the Reading task  . Distribution of theta power log-ratio  for the Stroop task  and Reading task  . Distribution of the gamma power log-ratio between incongruent trials preceded by congruent trials  compared to incongruent trials preceded by incongruent trials  . Distribution of the gamma power log-ratio between congruent trials preceded by incongruent trials  compared to congruent trials preceded by congruent trials  . For the anterior cingulate cortex electrode in Figure 2:  Phase-amplitude distribution during the Stroop task for the example electrode shown in Figure 2  . The observed Modulation Index  is significantly greater than the surrogate distribution generated by adding a lag between the phase and amplitude measurements , demonstrating that the amplitude of the gamma band is strongly coupled to the phase of the theta band . During the Stroop task , the difference in Modulation Index between congruent and incongruent trials  was not significantly different from 0  . The null distribution  was generated by randomly permuting the congruent and incongruent labels . Shown on the right is the percentage of the n = 51 conflict selective electrodes that showed significant coupling . The MI of congruent compared to incongruent trials for all Frontal cortex electrodes  and the subset that were conflict-selective in the gamma band  . For both groups , there was no significant difference in the MI between congruent and incongruent trials  . For this comparison , the number of congruent and incongruent trials was equalized before computing the MI . 016 Several lines of evidence demonstrate a link between the neural signals described in the previous section and cognitive control: the neural signals correlated with reaction times , showed behavioral adaptation , and demonstrated error monitoring . Consistent with the example electrode in Figure 2 , behavioral reaction times across the population correlated with the strength of the physiological signals , even after controlling for trial history  . The strength of these neural signals also revealed a neural correlate of the behavioral Gratton effect documented in Figure 1D: gamma power was greater in cI compared to iI trials  . Using the aforementioned multilevel model , we found a significant interaction between trial history  and task  . This Gratton effect was stronger in the Stroop task  than in the Reading task  . To control for reaction time effects on these comparisons , we ran an analysis of covariance  to test for a main effect of trial history on the gamma power with the behavioral reaction time as a covariate  . Together , these results suggest that the neural signals described here code for an internally perceived level of conflict that exhibits conflict adaptation and correlates with the across-trial variability in reaction times . We also examined the responses elicited in the broadband signals  as well as in the theta ,  , beta ,  , and low gamma  bands . No conflict selective responses were observed in the broadband signals or low gamma band . We found conflict-selective responses both in the theta and beta bands  . Across theta and beta frequency bands , we also observed a significant interaction between Congruency and Task  . Consistent with the results reported in the gamma frequency band , conflict responses in the theta and beta bands were more prominent during the Stroop task compared to the Reading task  . In contrast to the results in the gamma band , power in the theta and beta bands decreased during incongruent trials . In particular , several studies have demonstrated that the amplitude of the gamma band is coupled to the phase of slower oscillations in the theta band  . We therefore examined the degree of cross-frequency coupling between the signals in the gamma and theta bands  . However , the strength of this coupling was not different between congruent and incongruent trials across the population of conflict-selective electrodes  . The conflict responses reported above are based on correct trials only . To investigate whether the same electrodes responding to conflict are also involved in successful error monitoring , we analyzed the neural signals during self-corrected trials . In these trials , subjects initially made an erroneous response and rapidly corrected themselves with the right answer . An example self-corrected trial from the ACC electrode shown previously is illustrated in Figure 5A . Increased gamma power was observed after onset of the erroneous response . Additionally , these error-monitoring signals were not observed in correct incongruent trials  , and were consistent across the n = 11 self-corrected trials for this subject  . There were only two subjects contributing n = 7 conflict-signaling electrodes that had a sufficient number of self-correction trials  for this analysis . For each electrode , we compared the difference in neural signals during the one-second post-response window between the initial error and the following self-correction . Although the number of electrodes and trials in this analysis is small , these results provide a direct correlate of error monitoring signals . Furthermore , these results highlight that the same electrodes that respond to conflict leading up to the behavioral response can also show post-response error monitoring . Responses during self-corrected error trials . An example self-correction trial from the ACC electrode in Figure 2 when the word Green colored in red was presented . The single trial gamma power is shown on top , with the speech waveform below . Average gamma power aligned to the onset of the initial error response  and the onset of the corrected response  for n = 11 self-correction trials . Same as  for another example electrode in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex . Across the n = 7 electrodes with n = 10 or greater self-correction trials , the z-scored gamma power during the initial error response was larger than during the corrected response . 018 We observed conflict-selective responses in the anterior cingulate cortex , medial frontal cortex , dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and orbitofrontal cortex . To examine the dynamics of cognitive control orchestrating the transformation of conflicting visual signals to motor outputs , we compared , across those four regional groups , the latencies relative to behavioral response onset at which the congruent and incongruent trials could be discriminated . For a controlled and direct comparison , we restricted the analysis to compute the latency differences between pairs of simultaneously recorded electrodes . This within-subject pairwise analysis had increased power to examine the relative dynamics between frontal lobe areas  . Conflict responses in the ACC preceded those in all the other frontal lobe regions , followed 207 ± 40 ms later by dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and 388 ± 83 ms later by medial frontal cortex . For comparison , subjects’ behavioral reaction times to incongruent trials were 1105 ± 49 ms . The latency difference between ACC and dlPFC is based on 6 electrode pairs: one ACC electrode and six simultaneously recorded dlPFC electrodes . Latency differences between different regions computed from all pairs of simultaneously recorded electrodes . Because we only consider simultaneously recorded electrodes here , not all the electrodes modulated by conflict can be paired with any other electrode . Supplementary file 3 shows the number of electrodes modulated by conflict in each area and subject . There was only one electrode pair between ACC and OFC and therefore we do not show the latency difference between these two regions here . We used intracranial field potentials to measure the dynamics of conflict responses across frontal cortex leading up to the behavioral response in the Stroop task . Previous physiological and functional neuroimaging studies have documented the involvement of multiple of these frontal cortex areas in the Stroop or similar tasks  . The intracranial field potential recordings reported here show conflict-selective signals in ACC  , dlPFC  , mFC  and OFC  . The mFC and dlPFC have been previously implicated in cognitive control , and these structures are extensively connected to the rest of frontal cortex areas  . The role of the OFC in cognitive control during Stroop-like tasks has not been reported previously , possibly because of technical challenges in neuroimaging near this area  . We presented several lines of evidence that demonstrate that these conflict-selective physiological signals are relevant for behavior during the Stroop task . Longer behavioral reaction times were correlated with greater gamma power on a trial-by-trial basis during the Stroop task but not during the Reading task , even after accounting for trial history and for differences between congruent and incongruent stimuli  . The same identical stimuli can elicit a range of behavioral reaction times and this internal degree of conflict can be captured , at least partly , by the strength of gamma power in frontal cortex in each trial . The neural correlates of behavioral adaptation  were observed in the ACC , consistent with prior studies based on human single neuron recordings  , neuroimaging  and also in accordance with the behavioral effects of ACC resection  . Conflict responses throughout the other frontal cortex regions also demonstrated the neural Gratton effect , suggesting a more distributed network involved in across-trial adaptation than previously hypothesized . The physiological responses in these areas were stronger in cI trials  than iI trials  . While the increased activity in cI trials compared to iI trials is consistent with neuroimaging studies  , single neuron recordings in a different Stroop-like task report the opposite relationship   . Another discrepancy between neuroimaging studies and single unit recordings is the presence of conflict responses and error signals . Single unit recording in macaque ACC typically find error monitoring signals but not conflict-selective responses  , see however  , whereas human neuroimaging studies report both types of signals in ACC . A recent human intracranial study has found error signals in supplementary motor area and medial frontal cortex  , and a human single unit study reported conflict signals in ACC  . The analysis of the few self-correction trials in our data suggests that the same areas responsible for pre-behavioral conflict signals can also produce post-behavioral response error-monitoring signals  . In addition , the relative timing of the conflict and error signals surrounding the neural responses confirms computational predictions based on a connectionist architecture to explain the mechanisms of conflict  and scalp EEG studies  . These results are consistent with computational models suggesting that these signals may represent a general error-likelihood prediction , of which conflict and error detection are special cases  . It has been suggested that ACC and supplementary eye field neurons in macaque monkeys respond to specific stimulus and/or behavioral combinations but are not directly modulated by conflict  . At the level of the intracranial field potentials reported here , the modulation of conflict trials observed in the four frontal cortex regions could not be ascribed to specific stimulus or behavioral responses  and were also task dependent  . Besides the high gamma band , we also observed conflict responses in the beta and theta bands , but not the low gamma band  . Lack of significant correlations with reaction time in the theta and beta bands suggests that the gamma band better captures the behavior . Additionally , conflict responses were characterized by increased power in the gamma band , but decreased power in the theta and beta bands  . Previous scalp EEG recordings  have demonstrated that conflict and/or error trials elicit increased theta power , suggesting potentially interesting differences in how theta is captured across spatial scales . We also observed a decrease in beta power , which is consistent with previous studies that correlate frontal cortex activation with desynchronization in the beta band and increased synchronization in the gamma bands  . While we observed conflict responses throughout frontal cortex , the spatiotemporal resolution of our intracranial recordings allowed us to separate regions by the latency at which conflict-selective responses emerge with respect to speech onset . By comparing pairs of simultaneously recorded electrodes , we found that conflict responses in the ACC lead the dlPFC by ~200 ms . Medial frontal cortex is anatomically close and extensively connected to the ACC , and the two regions are often grouped together  . Yet , conflict responses in the mFC trail the ACC by hundreds of milliseconds , suggesting an important distinction between the two regions  . In particular , stimulus related signals are evident along the ventral visual stream early on and feed onto frontal cortex , where we find that ACC activity precedes activity in other frontal regions , followed by dlPFC , and finally mFC , and OFC . Since the local field potential pools over many neurons , latency measures can be influenced by a variety of factors , such as the proportion of neurons selective for conflict and their laminar organization . Yet , at least in the ACC , the temporal profile of conflict responses we observed is similar to responses from human single unit recordings  . There are monosynaptic connections that link these four regions within frontal cortex and yet , it takes 100–200 ms to detect the relative activation between these areas  . The current study provides initial steps to elucidate not only which brain areas participate in cognitive control on a trial-by-trial basis but also their relative interactions and differential roles . The relative latency measurements and correlations between neural activity and reaction time provide a framework to constrain theories of cognitive control , and propose a plausible flow of conflict responses through frontal cortex . These subjects were implanted with intracranial electrodes in frontal cortex for clinical purposes . Five other subjects participated in this task but they were excluded from the analyses because they did not have any electrodes in frontal cortex . Trials were either congruent  , where the font color matched the word , or incongruent  , where the font color conflicted with the word . The order of congruent and incongruent trials was randomized . Approximately 40% of the trials were incongruent trials . Within congruent trials and within incongruent trials all color-word combinations were counter balanced and randomly interleaved . Each block contained 18 trials , and the two tasks were completed in separate blocks . Most subjects completed 18 blocks of the Stroop task and 9 blocks of the Reading task  . We focused on those electrodes in four frontal cortex regions  . To determine the behavioral reaction time for each trial , the short-time energy was computed from the audio recordings . Only trials where the subject gave a single verbal response and the speech onset could be identified were considered correct trials . Power in the theta  , beta  , and high-gamma band  was extracted using a moving window multi-taper Fourier transform  with a time-bandwidth product of five and seven tapers . To determine whether and when an electrode responded selectively to conflict , we used a sliding F-statistic procedure  . Electrodes with differential responses between congruent and incongruent trials were selected by computing the F-statistic , for each time bin , comparing the neural responses between congruent and incongruent trials . Electrodes were denoted as ‘conflict selective’ if  the F-statistic exceeded a significance threshold for 50 consecutive milliseconds , and  the average neural response exceeded one standard deviation above the baseline period at least once during the trial . The latency at which congruent and incongruent stimuli could be discriminated was defined as the first time of this threshold crossing . For the response-aligned view , only electrodes where the latency preceded the response were included in subsequent analysis . This selection process was independently performed for each electrode in both stimulus-aligned and response-aligned analyses , and separately for the Stroop and Reading task . The congruent/incongruent trial labels were randomized 10 , 000 times and we measured the average number of electrodes across our population that passed the selection procedure . For the selected electrodes obtained with the procedure described in the previous section , we performed a number of within-electrode analyses . We measured single-trial correlations with behavioral reaction times , assessed the significance of interactions and simple/main effects , and controlled for confounds in measuring the neural Gratton effect . We computed the latency difference for each pair of simultaneously recorded electrodes from different regions . To measure cross-frequency coupling between the theta and gamma frequency bands , we used the Modulation Index  defined previously  . Activity in the theta  and high gamma  bands was obtained with a zero-phase least-squares finite impulse response  filter . For the Stroop and Reading Task separately , the MI was computed as the Kullback-Leiber distance between the phase-amplitude histogram and a uniform distribution . For comparison between tasks , the number of trials was equalized . Results were also similar when a surrogate distribution was created by randomly pairing low-frequency phase with high-frequency power from different trials . To compare the strength of cross-frequency coupling between congruent and incongruent conditions , we computed the difference in MI between the two conditions while equalizing the trial count . This difference was compared against a null distribution generated by randomly shuffling the congruent and incongruent labels . "
"Myosin 5a is a dual-headed molecular motor that transports cargo along actin filaments . By following the motion of individual heads with interferometric scattering microscopy at nm spatial and ms temporal precision we found that the detached head occupies a loosely fixed position to one side of actin from which it rebinds in a controlled manner while executing a step . Improving the spatial precision to the sub-nm regime provided evidence for an ångstrom-level structural transition in the motor domain associated with the power stroke . Simultaneous tracking of both heads revealed that consecutive steps follow identical paths to the same side of actin in a compass-like spinning motion demonstrating a symmetrical walking pattern . These results visualize many of the critical unknown aspects of the stepping mechanism of myosin 5 including head–head coordination , the origin of lever-arm motion and the spatiotemporal dynamics of the translocating head during individual steps . Myosin 5a moves in a hand-over-hand fashion with individual heads moving by 74 nm and the center of mass by 37 nm for each step  . A finely tuned kinetic sequence of ATP binding , hydrolysis , phosphate release and eventually ADP release by the enzymatic heads enables processive motion towards the ‘+’ end of actin filaments  . One of the most remarkable aspects of myosin 5a is the efficient conversion of chemical energy by the molecular-sized enzymatic heads into a translation of 74 nm along a 7 nm diameter actin filament in the presence of Brownian motion and a crowded cellular environment . Crystal structures of myosin 5a exist either with or without nucleotide , but only in the detached state  . Although these structures served as a model for the structural changes potentially induced by binding to actin ,  the internally coupled rearrangement of the subdomains leading to ADP and phosphate release or dissociation from actin upon ATP binding could only be studied in silico  . Similarly , there has been considerable interest in directly revealing the motion of the individual heads as myosin steps along actin in an attempt to unravel the origins of efficient motion on the nanoscale . Single molecule studies employing optical trapping  and fluorescence imaging  have either reported periods of increased flexibility ,  or partitioning of the step into sub-events  . The power stroke of the attached head contributes only partially to the step by moving the pivot point that facilitates Brownian rotation of the unbound head . The bias towards the next binding site is believed to be provided by the recovery stroke and its stability , but how unidirectional stepping is achieved in the presence of such a large and mostly random motion remains unclear  . The first passage time of the translocating head is expected to be on the order of 100 µs ,  although the head spends tens of ms in the unbound state given the maximum rates of ATP hydrolysis and binding to actin  . Any technique aiming to visualize the structural dynamics of the motor domain or the motion of the unattached head would thus have to achieve simultaneous millisecond temporal and nanometer spatial precision . Optical trapping operates in this spatiotemporal regime , but it is not possible to monitor the motion of the unattached head without significant perturbation . Smaller labels affixed to the myosin motor domain or to calmodulin molecules on the lever arm , as available in fluorescence imaging , do not suffer from this limitation , but cannot provide sufficient localization precision on the millisecond time scale . We therefore designed an assay based on interferometric scattering microscopy  ,  a technique that has recently been shown to enable simultaneous high-speed and high-precision imaging of 20 nm diameter or smaller nanoscale scattering labels  . We attached a 20 nm gold label functioning as an efficient light scatterer to the N-terminus of the myosin 5 head and tracked its motion as the motor travels along actin filaments  . From the centre of mass of the signal produced by the label , we determined the position of the head as a function of time revealing discrete 74 nm steps at 1000 frames/s imaging speed with ∼4 nm positional precision  . We verified that the addition of the 20 nm label did not interfere with the mechano–chemical cycle of myosin 5a by characterizing the speed of movement at different ATP concentrations . Our results compare well with those from a series of other single molecule studies where the molecule was labeled on the lever arm , the tail , or attached to a surface  . High-speed nanometric tracking of myosin 5 with interferometric scattering  microscopy . Distance traveled as a function of time for a single myosin 5 molecule biotinylated at the N-terminus and labeled with a 20 nm streptavidin-functionalized gold particle . The lateral localisation precision , σ , defined as the standard deviation of the positional fluctuations of the label while bound to actin is given above each of the actin-attached periods . Inset: schematic of gold-labeled myosin 5 stepping along actin . Activity of myosin 5 labeled with 20 nm gold nanoparticles at the N-terminus . Comparison of myosin 5 activity recorded in this work with previous single molecule studies . Detection of the transient state with a molecular sized fluorescent label . Representative distance time series of a myosin 5 molecule labelled with an atto-647N/streptavidin conjugate at the N-terminus and tracked using single molecule total internal fluorescence microscopy . Additional traces exhibiting the transient state marked by arrows . Rare transient unbinding events for the leading head of myosin 5 . Representative time trace segment of an event in which the leading head detaches from the actin filament and exhibits the intermediate state behaviour reported in the main text . 007 In addition to the expected 74 nm steps , we observed periods of increased positional fluctuations between detachment and reattachment of the labeled head , previously interpreted as a signature of Brownian search  . Our effective lateral localization precision of 4 nm at 1000 frames/s , however , enabled us to visualize the motion of the unbound head precisely and revealed a transient state with a center of mass just over half way between the two binding sites and offset by 40 nm perpendicular to the actin filament  . From this position , the myosin head repeatedly moved back and forth between the next actin binding site and the transient state position  . The same behavior sometimes occurred just before myosin detached from the filament at the end of a trajectory  , although detachment of myosin with the labeled head bound was equally likely . On the rare occasions that the labelled leading head of myosin detached and reattached , it occupied a similar position in space to a translocating head  , suggesting that the transient state represents a true potential minimum of the one head bound state of myosin . In addition to providing nanometer precise information on the lateral position of the head through the center of mass of the signal , the iSCAT signal magnitude is very sensitive to the label-to-surface distance allowing for overall nanometric localization in three-dimensions  . As the label moves perpendicular to the sample plane , the optical path length and with it the phase difference between the two fields changes by the following relation Φ = 4πηz/λ  . Thus , variations in the axial distance of the motor domain with respect to the filament bound to the sample surface lead to changes in the scattering contrast . We often observed these changes in contrast between the actin bound and unbound states  and obtained an average change in iSCAT signal during the step  . 5% in iSCAT contrast  suggests that the myosin head lifts on average by 24 ± 10 nm from its actin bound position . Three-dimensional interferometric tracking of the myosin head . The red subset of the traces corresponds to the unbound head state . Inset: schematic illustrating how the difference in optical path difference for the bound  and unbound  state leads to changes in iSCAT contrast caused by the interference of the reflected  and scattered  electric fields . Normalized histogram of the average iSCAT contrast while the head is in the transient state  or bound to actin  . Dual colour iSCAT imaging of myosin 5 . 2D-trajectory of myosin 5 stepping along actin recorded simultaneously with 445 nm  and 635 nm  illumination . Although the latter channel exhibits higher noise due to a lower scattering signal , the transient state is evident in every step even though much of the data are lost in the trace recorded at 445 nm due to the major drop in scattering intensity . Schematic of myosin stepping along actin with different azimuthal orientations relative to the actin filament . Although the contrast is large in the blue channel , it drops much more significantly during population of the transient state . 009 We occasionally encountered tracks where the transient state could not be localized because the iSCAT contrast dropped to zero . We interpret these cases as corresponding to molecules oriented parallel to the glass surface based on simultaneous iSCAT measurements using blue  and red  illumination . At the same time , the off-axis component of the transient state was much smaller compared to those trajectories when the transient state remained visible in both channels , which is most consistent with a parallel bound molecule lifting the detached head up by ∼40 nm  . To investigate whether subsequent steps occur on the same or opposite sides of the actin filament , commonly referred to as symmetric and asymmetric hand-over-hand stepping ,  we labeled the two heads of a single molecule differently , one with a quantum dot and the other with a 20 nm gold particle  . Simultaneous detection of quantum dot fluorescence and iSCAT signal was only possible with a longer wavelength scattering beam which is only weakly absorbed by the quantum dot , thereby avoiding excessive blinking and bleaching  . In addition , the imaging speed was lowered to 500 frames/s to ensure <10 nm localization precision in the fluorescence channel while imaging over several seconds . We tracked both the scattering from the gold particle of one head  and the fluorescence of the quantum dot-labeled head  . In all recorded trajectories of doubly-labeled molecules that exhibited clear transient states in both the fluorescence and scattering channels , the transient states for both heads appeared on the same side of the actin filament  . Simultaneous scattering and fluorescence tracking of a single myosin 5a . One head was labeled with a 20 nm streptavidin-functionalized gold particle  and the other with a fluorescent quantum dot  . Reported values correspond to the standard deviation σ in the position of the bound state  and the shaded regions encompass an area of 3σ . Additional traces of simultaneous scattering and fluorescence tracking of a single myosin 5a . One head was labelled with a 20 nm streptavidin-functionalized gold particle  and the other with a fluorescent quantum dot  . Reported values correspond to the standard deviation σ in the position of the bound state  and the shaded regions encompass an area of 3σ . 011 Close inspection of the time traces occasionally revealed what appeared to be small backwards movements of the attached head , such as the transition starting at 480 ms in the trace of Figure 1A . Since our localisation precision at 1000 frames/s is limited by the intrinsic motion of the label about its attachment point to the motor domain and diffusion of background scatterers , we repeated the tracking assay at 100 frames/s . At this imaging speed , we could frequently observe a transition between two distinct states during each 74 nm step in both an x–y projection  and the time trace  . As shown in the lateral trajectory , the transition between these states  involves a small , <10 nm , off-axis backward motion of the gold particle attached to the bound head . As a result , the overall step size appears larger than the expected 74 nm step  . Two states of the motor domain during myosin movement . Sample 2D trajectories for a 20 nm gold particle immobilised on the surface and attached to the N-terminus of myosin 5a . The arrow indicates the direction of myosin movement . Two distinct states  of the bound head are evident  . Standard deviations  are given to compare both fixed  and myosin bound particles  . A brief reduction in iSCAT contrast coincides with 74 nm steps taken by the labeled head  . The behaviour of a non-specifically surface-bound 20 nm gold particle that is completely immobilized is shown for comparison  . Repeated localization of the particle throughout suggests a nominal sub-nm lateral localization precision and a constant scattering contrast . Step size histograms for post to pre-power stroke and post to post power stroke states . Data was collected at 100 Hz and 10 μM ATP , using 20 nm diameter gold nanoparticles . The positional fluctuations of the A and B states presented as histograms of lateral localization precision , σ , show no measurable difference in mechanical stability of the two states . 014 The positional fluctuations  of a surface-attached label recorded in the same field of view as the trajectory suggest that we achieved sub-nm lateral localization precision of 20 nm gold at 100 frames/s  . The localization noise increased for a gold bead attached to an actin-bound myosin  , but remained small enough such that transitions on the order of 5 nm were clearly visible  . The slightly larger positional fluctuations for gold bound to the actomyosin complex compared to immobilized gold were likely caused by a combination of a flexible protein-label connection and a limited ability in to completely immobilize actin . We observed a clear drop in the iSCAT contrast when the labeled trailing head detached and transitioned to the leading position  . We also measured a much smaller change in iSCAT contrast during the AB transition , likely due to a three-dimensional reorientation of the label . We then performed simultaneous tracking of the head and the tail of myosin 5a , which showed that the small backwards transition corresponds to the power stroke of the bound motor domain . To achieve this , we labeled the myosin head with a 20 nm gold particle as previously and the tail with a GFP booster  . We reduced our frame rate to 20 frames/s in order to increase the fluorescence signal from the tail , since single molecule fluorescence tracking of GFP with <5 nm precision at 100 frames/s is challenging . The resulting traces showed that both the large-scale translocation of the head and the subsequent smaller backwards transition coincide with translation of the tail  . This implies that the small-scale transition accompanies the power stroke of the attached labeled head  and is representative of a pre- to post-power stroke transition  . Simultaneous iSCAT and fluorescence tracking of myosin 5a . Tracking of the scattering signal from the gold nanoparticle attached to the N-terminus  and fluorescence signal from the GFP moiety located at the C-terminus of the same myosin 5a molecule  . Movement of the tail correlates with the labeled head taking its step  and with the AB transition  . Green arrows represent the tail movement , which corresponds to the step of either the labelled or unlabeled head . When the unlabeled head takes its step it coincides with the AB transition within the labeled head  . 6 nm  , 8 nm  . 015 To determine the structural origin of the AB transition , we repeated the tracking experiments with differently sized labels . 5 nm for 20 , 30 and 40 nm diameter labels , respectively  . This suggests that the AB transition reports on a conformational change of the bound head , which is a rotation of the N-terminal domain , rather than a translation of the head itself along actin . The red circles indicate the positions of two labels in the pre-power stroke A state  . The grey circles correspond to the post-power stroke B state . For a larger label  , the same movement of the N-terminus leads to an overall similar motion but with a larger displacement of the center of mass  than for a small label  . Histograms for the distances between A and B states for 20 , 30 and 40 nm gold nanoparticle labels located at the N-terminus . Expected movement for two differently sized labels attached to myosin 5a during a conformational change in the head domain associated with the power stroke . The red circle represents the position of the label in the A state , and the grey circle corresponds to the B state with dots indicating their respective centres of mass . The labels r1 and r2 correspond to the radii of both labels where r2 = 2 × r1 , and d1 and d2 correspond to the AB distance after rotation by an angle α around an origin located within the head domain at a distance x from the nanoparticle surface . The myosin 5a head domain pre-power stroke conformation is shown in orange  . The lever arm is pointing out  and the blue arrow indicates its movement during the power stroke . 016 Trajectories recorded at 100 frames/s frequently showed both the position of the transient state and the direction of the AB transition , revealing that they were invariably in line  . During the recording of 351 traces that exhibited clear signatures of the transient state at 100 frames/s , we found a preference  of right over left-handed walking . Within individual traces , we only observed the transient state on the same side of actin . In some cases , however , we could observe individual myosin molecules switch from one actin filament to another . As previously , the transient state always appeared on one side while on one actin filament , but either switched to the other  or remained on the same side  of the actin track when the molecule moved from one filament to another . For 102 switching events , we found that the transient state remained on the same side of the filament 60% of the time , while changing sides in 40% of the events . Directionality and kinetics of the AB transition and the transient state . Simultaneous observation of the AB transition and the transient state for right and left handed walking molecules . Position of the transient state for the same molecule before and after switching actin tracks . 017 Given that the transient state could always be clearly identified either to the right or to the left side of actin , we could align all recorded steps from the 1000 frames/s tracking data by flipping them about the actin filament when necessary to obtain a 2D spatial probability distribution maps of the location of both the unbound and bound myosin head compared to the actin binding sites during a single step  . For the transient state one was located ∼5 nm away from the final actin binding site and the other 40 nm off-axis from the actin filament . For the A and B states the bound head orientations were in line with the position of the transient state , with the lateral projection connecting the A , B and transient states approximately in a straight line  . Probability density contour maps of the myosin step . Upper panel represents the transient state of the unbound head . Contour map of a two-dimensional histogram with a 10 × 10 nm2 bin width obtained from the 1000 frames/s data  . Lower panel shows the AB transition within the bound head , a two-dimensional histogram with a 1 × 1 nm2 bin width generated using the 100 frames/s data  . All contributing steps were aligned and those to the right of the filament when viewed in the direction of motion were mirrored . Spatiotemporal dynamics of the transient state as a function of ATP concentration . Contour maps of the transient state at three different ATP concentrations . Obtaining traces at high ATP concentration was challenging due to the small available field of view and rapid detachment of myosin from actin caused by the faster stepping rate . Dwell time distributions for pre and post-power stroke states at different ATP concentrations . In all cases , data and fits for the pre-power stroke state are shown in red; data and fits for the post-power stroke state are shown in blue . At saturating  ATP concentration  both dwell time distributions exhibited single exponential behaviour in line with ADP release being the rate limiting step . The constants for the A state dwell times are given by kA and that for the B state by kB . At lower ATP concentrations , sequential ADP release and ATP binding result in bi-exponential behaviour . Data taken at 100 frames/s , we increased the imaging speed to 400 Hz at 1 mM ATP concentration . Geometrical considerations assuming myosin molecules moving parallel to the glass surface . If the head searched the full spherical space , the average position would be simply about half way between the leading head and the next binding site . For a parallel orientation this would be 56 nm forward and 15 nm off axis and for a perpendicular orientation 56 nm forward but ‘in line’ with the bound head positions . We , however , observed a transient state half way between the two binding sites , 40 nm off axis  , which rules out this geometry . Probability density contour map of the transient state . Contour map of a two-dimensional histogram with a 18 × 18 nm2 bin width was obtained using all , left- and right- handed walking traces , without flipping  . 022 Our ability to clearly distinguish between bound and unbound states during processive motion , allowed us to extract the dwell times of the transient state . We found no ATP concentration dependence on both the spatial and temporal distributions of the transient state within our experimental error  . The corresponding dwell time distributions for the A and B states followed the behavior expected for processes limited by ATP binding and ADP release  . In all cases , the dwell times of the A and the B states were identical suggesting that the 20 nm gold particle had no effect on the stepping kinetics . Label-sizes of a few tens of nm are traditionally avoided in single particle tracking experiments to prevent the label from perturbing the dynamics of interest . By monitoring the lifetimes of the A and B states , which effectively provides the dwell times of the labeled and unlabeled heads , respectively , we demonstrate that the 20 nm gold particle attached to the N-terminus of myosin has no measureable effect on the kinetics of stepping . Here , the label probes the structural change occurring in the bound head during the power stroke and amplifies it into a nanometer scale motion . Previous studies using gold labels were not able to observe this transition likely due to a combination of a different labeling strategy  and much lower spatial precision   . Several EM studies  failed to detect any obvious conformational differences in the position of the SH3  of lead and trail heads , whereas we now demonstrate a movement of this domain associated with the power stroke taken after the trail head dissociates . This change is consistent with results of molecular dynamic simulations of both myosin 5a and myosin 2 based on crystal structures suggesting that the N-terminus undergoes a rotation during the power stroke transition  . Although the original myosin 5 tracking performed with a fluorescently-labeled calmodulin bound to the lever arm at 1 . 5 nm precision revealed 74 nm steps ,  a later study with rigidly attached dye labels on the calmodulin bound to the lever arm suggested that they in fact represent 64–10 nm steps  . During the acquisition of 4728 steps in 635 trajectories , we never observed a large followed by a small forward step . In our work , we labeled the motor domain directly , while in the previous studies , calmodulin bound to the lever arm was used as an attachment point . Since the lever arm moves significantly during the power stroke , attachment of the dye at this location may suggest a sub-step along actin , even though the motor domain itself does not move . A recent AFM study  reported that detachment and reattachment of the leading head , a so-called ‘foot stomp’ contributes to the mechanochemical cycle of myosin 5 . The sensitivity of our tracking methodology to detachment from actin in three dimensions , however , shows that myosin remains firmly bound to actin with both heads during the mechanochemical cycle irrespective of whether the head is leading or trailing  , except when the head takes a 74 nm step . Only on very rare occasions did we observe detachment of the leading head . 6% of steps taken at 10 µM ATP , none at saturating ATP exhibited this behavior . The unbinding event was not necessarily followed by reattachment at a different site suggesting that these events can be explained simply by the binding equilibria between myosin and actin , rather than being an active component of the stepping mechanism . One likely explanation for the increased occurrence of lead head detachment and reattachment in recent AFM studies  is the much lower ATP concentration used or the non-negligible interaction of the AFM tip with the protein . The combination of temporal and spatial precision achieved in this work directly reveals the motion of the unbound head of myosin during translocation . From the two head bound state of myosin 5a , the trailing head detaches from actin upon binding of ATP  . The leading head then undergoes a power stroke that leans the protein forward , a motion that exhibits a strong torsional component  . After the power stroke , the unbound head arrives at a minimum in the potential energy from where it approaches the next actin binding site in what appears to be a one dimensional biased search . The transient state lifetime agrees with the duration of increased flexibility reported in optical trapping experiments probing the attachment stiffness at high time-resolution  and single molecule tracking of the motor domain  . This density very likely corresponds to the weakly bound state from which the head frequently moves back to the side position . Mechanism of the myosin step . ATP binding to the trailing head  and its detachment releases strain stored in the molecule . The bound head  performs its power stroke which is accompanied by the AB transition  . The labeled head becomes a new trailing head  which detaches after ATP binding . From this position , the head binds the desired binding site while ATP hydrolyses . The step completes as the head binds actin and is repeated by the other head in the same direction dictated by the initial torsional strain . Schematic representation of both heads' movement  . 023 An important implication of our data is that the position of the transient state , displaced 40 nm along and perpendicular to the filament is inconsistent with a purely rotational diffusion search . In that case we would require most molecules to be bound parallel to the surface and then expect the average position of the detached head to be displaced ∼56 nm along and not more than 20 nm perpendicular to the filament  . Why the unattached head occupies a positon 40 nm away from the actin filament is a priori puzzling . There is neither an intrinsic reason for the head to pause there , nor is there a binding site present at this position . Our experimental data provides no evidence that the transient state is induced or measurably affected by unwanted interactions caused by the particle or the surface as suggested by the similarity of our transient state lifetime to previous studies with alternative labeling strategies ,  the presence of the transient state for much smaller labels  , the change in contrast during the step  , the lack of non-specific binding of our label to the surface or actin and any localizations during the one head bound state that coincide with the underlying actin track . This location and the resulting movement , however , become more intuitive when considering that the intrinsic angle between the lever arms is similar to that found when the two heads are bound to actin , that is , ∼37 nm away from each other . Comparison of electron micrographs of myosin 5 bound to actin  and non-specifically bound to a surface in the absence of actin  show clearly peaked angle distributions around 105 and 115° , respectively , suggesting a built-in preference for such a spatial arrangement of the two heads , rather than a truly flexible linkage , another indication that a completely free swivel at the neck-linker is unlikely . In this way , keeping the angle between the lever arms roughly intact during stepping and twisting partially about the leading head causes the translocating motor domain to preferentially reach the desired binding site . The position of the transient state together with what appears to be constrained diffusion suggests that myosin side steps along actin in a combined twisting and leaning motion , much more like a drawing compass rather than a freely jointed swivel or human-like gait . It generates a built-in bias for finding the correct binding site and ensures that the head needs to travel and search only along one dimension to find the desired binding site defined by the torsion about the leading head and neck linker rather than a lower probability three-dimensional Brownian search . Even if the motor domain fails to bind strongly on first passage , it swings back and forth between the transient state and the desired actin site until tight binding can occur . This suggests that the structure of myosin 5a facilitates and controls the motion of the unbound head to achieve such high specificity in finding the desired binding site . Our results do not imply that the head is effectively stationary at the transient state position while in the one head bound state . The location of the transient state , the fact that in several thousand steps we never observed a single step with transient localizations on both sides of the actin filament , and a predominantly perpendicular orientation of myosin relative to the surface caused by our surface preparation , however , suggest that diffusion is constrained . On the contrary , we believe that this constraint is a key to myosin 5's efficiency in terms of processive motion in contrast to a completely free , spherical search space . The fact that the AB transition and the relative location of the rear-binding site and the transient state are in line has two further important implications . It suggests that the AB transition cannot solely be a consequence of a steric interaction between the label and the lever arm . In other words , the energy from the ATPase reaction , stored in the actomyosin complex can only be fully used after the trailing head detaches and the system can relax . Our data shows that the AB transition is associated with the power stroke but it is unlikely that the 20° rotation of the N-terminus is directly responsible for the side step per se . The fact that the transient state is either to the left or to the right of the filament implies that it cannot be a pure consequence of the attached lever arm swing . We therefore propose that the position of the transient state and the direction of the AB transition reflect the strain release upon rear head detachment . The initial strain is built up within the head domain and transmitted up to the lever arm during the first binding when one of the heads twists in order to bind to the same actin filament  . The simultaneous tracking of the movement of both heads using the combination of gold scattering and fluorescence demonstrates that myosin walks in a symmetric manner where each head movement is accompanied by an 180° swing on the same side of the actin filament , unlike a human gait . This type of movement would imply that the cargo also rotates with each step or that a swivel exists to relieve the strain that would otherwise develop between the myosin and the cargo . Such a rotation has been measured by the orientation of quantum rods attached to the myosin 5a tail , although , in this work the source of the rotational movement was thought to be thermal  . Our observation that the orientation of the transient state relative to actin may change for the same molecule by binding to another actin filament shows that the position of the transient state relative to actin is not an intrinsic property of individual myosin molecules . Otherwise , we would expect each molecule to preserve the orientation of the transient state even when changing from one filament to another . Instead , the decision is made upon binding to actin , with both cases following the right and left hand preference previously mentioned . However , if the sidedness was only a consequence of an interaction with the surface , then we would at least expect the molecules that are bound perpendicular to the glass surface and thus have the least interaction with it , to show no preference . Since we never observed transient states on both sides of the filament during individual runs , the reported mechanism is likely to be an intrinsic feature of the myosin 5a stepping . Based on our observation that the transient state for both heads occurs on the same side of the actin filament we propose that the twisting that takes place during the initial binding event of both heads to actin determines the directionality . This initial twist , possibly driven by thermal fluctuations , establishes the direction in which the initial torsional strain is built up and is then repeatedly stored and released as the protein moves along actin . Once the directionality of the transient state has been established , both heads follow the same constrained route resulting in an efficient , unidirectional motion . Mouse myosin 5a HMM with a C-terminal GFP was expressed in the presence of calmodulin and purified as described  . Before labeling , the myosin sample was diluted in MB containing 40 mM KCl , 5 mM DTT , 0 . Gold nanoparticles of 20 nm , 30 nm and 40 nm in diameter conjugated with streptavidin were purchased from BBI  and directly mixed with biotinylated myosin 5a sample in a 4:1 , gold to myosin ratio , consistent with one or zero myosin molecules per gold particle . For fluorescence only imaging , myosin was incubated for 10 min with Atto-647 streptavidin  . Finally , the chamber was inspected and myosin-gold conjugate solution containing ATP was added . Fluorescence only imaging and tracking was achieved with a home-built TIRF microscope using a 635 nm diode laser . The flat field reference image containing non-sample specific illumination inhomogeneities , fixed pattern noise and any constant background caused by residual reflections was produced by first recording 2000 images while moving the sample stage with a piezo-driven XY translation stage . The resulting image stack was temporally averaged to 100 frames and each pixel of the flat field reference image was computed as the temporal median value of the frame sequence . Removal of sample specific constant background and thereby increase in the image signal to noise ratio was achieved by obtaining the static background from the sample by averaging at least 10 frames that lacked a signal from the processive myosin 5a molecule labeled with a gold nanoparticle of interest  . Nanometric tracking of labeled myosin 5a was achieved by non-linear least square fitting of the point spread function to a two-dimensional Gaussian . Spatiotemporal characterization of the transient state was achieved by alignment of several steps and separation of the states . We segmented each trajectory into step pairs defined as the set containing the data before and after each 74 nm step . These steps were detected manually by using a time interval slider along the 2D trajectory and checking for changes in positional fluctuations . The orientation of the transient state relative to actin was determined and later used to align all steps . To determine the spatiotemporal dynamics of the side step only step pair traces that showed transient states lasting longer than 10 ms were used . Then , we applied a rotation matrix to the entire step pair trace so that both bound states lie along the horizontal axis . "
"By selecting 8–10 of our 39 original CyTOF markers , we were able to isolate highly purified populations of unstimulated in vivo latent cells . The ability to isolate unstimulated latent cells from infected individuals enables previously impossible studies on HIV persistence . Combination antiretroviral therapy  suppresses HIV replication but does not eliminate the latent reservoir , which persists for decades in CD4+ T cells and forms a major barrier to HIV cure  . Our understanding of the phenotypic features of latent cells in vivo is limited , in large part because the lack of a universal surface biomarker makes it impossible to directly identify these cells . As a result , fundamental questions remain , such as whether latent cells distribute equally among all CD4+ T cell subsets , and to what extent the reservoir is similar between individuals and between blood and tissues . In the absence of direct ways to phenotype latent cells , characterizing the composition of the HIV reservoir has largely entailed sorting CD4+ T cells based on predefined sets of cell-surface proteins , followed by quantitating HIV through a variety of methods . qVOA has not identified significant differences in the amount of replication-competent HIV in the most commonly studied subsets of memory CD4+ T cells – central memory  , effector memory  , and transitional memory   . Several methods have recently enabled the direct phenotyping of reservoir cells at single-cell resolution  , providing deeper analyses of the reservoir . These methods entail stimulating cells from ART-suppressed patients with a mitogen to induce the expression of HIV RNA and/or proteins , which serve as markers for identifying or isolating cells using FACS . However , one important limitation with these methods is that they require ex vivo stimulation before phenotyping as viral proteins are not typically expressed at detectable levels in unstimulated latent cells  . This stimulation will induce phenotypic changes associated with T cell activation , and expression of HIV accessory genes from reactivation will result in host cell remodeling  , which will further alter the phenotypes of the cells  . Therefore , although current methods enable phenotyping of reactivated cells , there is at present no methodology to directly assess the phenotypes of individual latent cells in their original dormant state . We have used PP-SLIDE to predict the state of CD4+ T cells before phenotypic changes induced by productive HIV infection  . Here , we applied it to determine the features of in vivo latent CD4+ T cells before their reactivation by ex vivo stimulation , and validated these findings with patient specimens . Through PP-SLIDE analysis , we were able to address questions fundamental to our understanding of HIV latency and to isolate highly enriched populations of replication-competent latent cells for mechanistic studies of reservoir maintenance . To determine if it can trace reactivated cells to their original latent state , we tested it first in J-Lat cells , an in vitro model of HIV latency . J-Lat cells are Jurkat cells harboring a single integrated HIV provirus that can be reactivated upon stimulation . 3 were reactivated by stimulation with PMA/ionomycin and phenotyped using a CyTOF T cell panel  , along with unstimulated cells of clone 6 . These unstimulated cells , identified using a k-nearest neighbor  approach , are collectively termed ‘kNN latent cells’ . These results suggest that although reactivation greatly changes the phenotype of a latent cell , some of the original ‘identity’ of the cell is still retained and that PP-SLIDE can be used to capture this information and thereby identify precursors of reactivated latent cells . Next , we applied PP-SLIDE to characterize latent cells from HIV-infected individuals , using a CyTOF panel  that is directed at markers of the major subsets and differentiation states of CD4+ T cells and includes receptors and intracellular proteins associated with latency  . We collected via leukapheresis CD4+ T cells from the blood of four ART-suppressed HIV-infected individuals  , purified memory CD4+ T cells by negative selection , and separated the cells into two pools  . The CyTOF profiles of reactivated cells were matched against those of the unstimulated atlas cells . Assuming each reactivated cell retained some of its original pre-stimulation identity and that a phenotypically similar cell was present in the atlas of unstimulated cells , we used PP-SLIDE to identify , for each reactivated cell , the nearest-neighbor within the atlas  . These identified cells , the ‘kNN latent cells’ , harbor the predicted phenotypes of latent cells before their reactivation from latency . When visualized against the atlas of unstimulated cells by t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding  , Gag+ reactivated cells occupied a unique region , confirming their distinct phenotype relative to unstimulated cells  . kNN latent cells mapped to several distinct regions of the atlas  , suggesting a non-random distribution among memory CD4+ T cells . To verify this , we implemented FlowSOM  to subdivide the atlases from each of the four donors into 20 clusters , and visualized the distribution of kNN latent cells on the tSNE maps or on pie graphs  . We found large clusters lacking kNN latent cells as well as small clusters harboring kNN latent cells , consistent with a non-random distribution of latent cells , which was confirmed using a chi-squared test  . For a detailed description of the extent of enrichment of kNN latent cells in clusters and validation of non-random distribution of the reservoir , see Materials and methods . Next , we examined the composition of the kNN latent cells . We focused first on the Tcm , Tem , and Ttm subsets , as they have been the most commonly studied memory CD4+ T cells in the context of HIV latency  . In all four donors , the contribution of Tem to the reservoir was greater than its contribution to total memory CD4+ T cells  . We did not identify any kNN latent cells with the Ttm phenotype , likely because this subset is relatively rare in blood and not efficiently captured in our samples , each of which harbored fewer than 100 kNN latent cells . When the three FlowSOM clusters of atlas cells with the highest frequencies of kNN latent cells were examined for the relative contributions of the Tcm , Tem , and Ttm subsets , we found that they were all comprised of multiple subsets  . Collectively , these data demonstrate that although Tem are over-represented among kNN latent cells , the clusters most enriched for kNN latent cells – as classified by unbiased clustering based on ~40 markers – are a mixture of Tcm/Tem/Ttm subsets . Consistent with the latter , when datasets from the four donors were combined and re-run within the same tSNE , the kNN latent cells from the four donors resided within a similar region of the plot  . These results argue that kNN latent cells between different donors are in fact similar . Consistent with this conclusion , relative to total memory CD4+ T cells , kNN latent cells consistently expressed higher levels of select markers of immune checkpoint  , activation  , and T cell differentiation states  . Even though latent cells are similar between individuals , the inter-donor variability in latent cells could still be greater than the intra-donor variability . To test this idea , we obtained leukapheresis specimens from donor PID5003 at two time points spaced 2 months apart and compared in an unbiased manner the kNN latent cells from those specimens to kNN latent cells from donor PID3010  . For each kNN latent cell in the PID3010 sample , we calculated the Euclidean distances  to every kNN latent cell in the PID5003 sample . Similar calculations were conducted between kNN latent cells from the two time points sampled in PID5003  . The median distances were lower between specimens from the same donor than from different donors  , demonstrating that despite the similarity of kNN latent cells between donors , the kNN latent cells differ more between donors than within a donor . Next , we took advantage of our ability to obtain high-resolution maps of the phenotypic features of latent cells to compare their reactivation by different ex vivo stimulations . Euclidean distance calculations  revealed that PMA/ionomycin-reactivatable kNN latent cells from different collection time points were more similar to each other than to anti-CD3/CD28-reactivatable kNN latent cells from the same time point  . Next , we compared the latent cells reactivatable by PMA/ionomycin to those reactivatable by a combination LRA consisting of an HDAC inhibitor together with an ingenol  using three longitudinal blood specimens each spaced 2 months apart . tSNE visualization of the kNN latent cells revealed a region of the plot that harbored kNN latent cells from the PMA/ionomycin samples but not from the Romidepsin/PEP005 samples  . Euclidean distance calculations  were again used to verify that kNN latent cells reactivatable by the same stimulation at different time points were more similar than those reactivatable by different stimulations within the same time point  . These data suggest that Romdepsin/PEP005 reactivates only a subset of latent cells reactivatable by broad-spectrum mitogens such as PMA/ionomycin , although these findings should be confirmed with longitudinal specimens from additional donors . Since most of the HIV reservoir persists within tissues  , we next applied the PP-SLIDE method of latent cell characterization to tissue specimens . Unlike with blood specimens , memory CD4+ T cells were not purified ahead of time since FNAs yielded limited numbers of cells . However , we pre-gated on memory CD4+ T cells to compare with purified blood cells . The kNN latent cells from the FNAs , similar to those from blood , were not randomly distributed and remained similar across the longitudinal specimens as demonstrated by their occupying similar regions of tSNE space  . Several antigens distinguished kNN latent cells in the blood versus tissues . For instance , CD27 , an antigen expressed on Tcm cells , and CD69 , a marker of activation in blood but a T resident memory  marker in tissues  , were more highly expressed on FNA kNN latent cells  . PD1 and CXCR5 , markers of Tfh that are preferentially expressed in latent cells particularly in tissues  , were also expressed at especially high levels on kNN latent cells from FNAs  . The co-stimulatory molecule ICOS was expressed at high levels on kNN latent cells exclusively in FNAs , while the exhaustion marker TIGIT was more variably expressed  . These results reveal marked differences between the phenotypic features of kNN latent cells in blood versus lymph nodes , with the notable exception of PD1 , which was high in both compartments . kNN latent cells from the gut were mostly CD69hiCD27lo , while those from blood exhibited a much more variable expression pattern of these two antigens  . By contrast , kNN latent cells from both the gut and blood expressed high levels of PD1 but relatively low levels of CXCR5  . Another similarity was that CTLA4 and CCR6 , previously reported to be preferentially expressed on latent cells from tissues  , were both highly expressed in kNN latent cells from the gut and blood . Taken together with the FNA results , these analyses identify CD69 and PD1 as antigens expressed at high levels in kNN latent cells from both gut and lymph nodes , suggesting shared features of the reservoir between different tissue compartments . To compare the global similarities between kNN latent cells from the three compartments  , we visualized the atlas and kNN latent cells of all donors combined using tSNE  . Interestingly , the FNA atlas cells appeared equidistant to the blood and gut atlas cells , an observation confirmed by Euclidean distance calculations . By contrast , kNN latent cells from FNA and gut tended to cluster more closely together , away from those from blood , which we also confirmed by Euclidean distance calculations  . Together with the above analyses suggesting that kNN latent cells from both tissue compartments express high levels of CD69 and PD1 , these results suggest that phenotypic features of the reservoir are shared between different tissue sites . That said , a notable difference was that kNN latent cells from FNAs included both naïve and memory cells , while those from the gut only included memory cells , potentially due to the under-representation of naïve cells within the gut compartment  . To determine whether surface markers differentially expressed on kNN latent cells can enrich for the replication-competent reservoir , we custom-designed sorting strategies for each of the four donor blood specimens . Because PD1 is arguably the most validated surface marker of latent cells  , we compared the additional enrichment afforded by our sorting strategy to that afforded by PD1 selection alone . Our panels took into account the expression levels of markers in kNN latent cells , the numbers of cryopreserved cells available from the participant , and the overall abundance of the populations in each sequential gate . The latter two aspects were important considerations as an infrequent population of cells may be highly enriched for kNN latent cells but too rare to sort in sufficient numbers for viral outgrowth and other downstream assays . The disenriched populations harbored markedly lower frequencies of kNN latent cells than the enriched one  . Sorted cells were stimulated in bulk for 2 days with anti-CD3/CD28 , and plated into individual wells at various dilutions . The enriched populations also harbored more replication-competent HIV than total memory CD4+ T cells  . We then assessed to what extent our 8–10 marker panels enrich for latent cells harboring intact genomes . Consistent with the PP-SLIDE and outgrowth results , enriched cells harbored higher frequencies of intact p24 sequences than disenriched ones  . A phylogenetic analysis of the sequences revealed that in two of the donors  , EIS from the enriched and disenriched populations formed distinct lineages , while in donor PID3010 multiple EIS were shared between the enriched and disenriched populations  . Fully-intact EIS in the enriched population comprised two groups , suggesting two major expansions of replication-competent reservoir cells in this population of cells highly enriched for replication-competent HIV  . Collectively , these results show that surface markers identified by PP-SLIDE can be used to enrich for replication-competent latent cells and that these cells are enriched for the transcriptionally active reservoir and exhibit clear evidence of clonal expansion of fully-intact proviruses . Given that some features of kNN latent cells are shared between individuals  , we set out to design a universal panel to enrich for latent cells in a donor-independent fashion . We designed a sorting strategy incorporating eight surface antigens that enrich for kNN latent cells from all four blood specimens analyzed  . As TIGIT was found to be expressed at high levels on kNN latent cells in some but not all donors  , we designed a strategy to isolate two enriched populations – one TIGIThigh and one TIGITmed/low – to test the hypothesis that TIGIT is indeed not a marker of latent cells shared between donors . These populations were compared to a PD1+ population disenriched for kNN latent cells  . Furthermore , the TIGIThigh population harbored more viruses in some donors and the TIGITmed/low one in others , validating the notion that TIGIT is not a marker of latent cells shared between donors . These results suggest that shared features between kNN latent cells can be exploited to enrich for the replication-competent latent reservoir across donors . Although the latent reservoir has long been recognized as a major barrier to HIV cure , the phenotype of these latently infected cells in vivo has remained somewhat obscure . A common viewpoint , based on the limited number of studies that have conducted viral outgrowth assays on sorted cell populations , is that latent HIV persists in all types of CD4+ T cells with no preference for one subset over another . Taking advantage of recent developments in high-parameter single-cell phenotyping and our PP-SLIDE analysis pipeline , we now show that latently infected cells are not randomly distributed among CD4+ T cells , and provide an in-depth view of the phenotypic features of the in vivo blood and tissue reservoir . Second , cells sorted based on PP-SLIDE were enriched for genome-intact and replication-competent reservoir cells in the expected populations . Of note , our PP-SLIDE characterization had charted the translation-competent reservoir , defined as latent cells able to produce viral proteins upon stimulation  , which may include some replication-incompetent HIV provirus  . Nevertheless , our viral outgrowth results closely aligned with the enrichment of kNN latent cells , confirming that PP-SLIDE identifies markers of the replication-competent HIV reservoir most relevant for a cure . Third , using our ‘universal panel , ’ we validated the preferential presence of the replication-competent reservoir in expected populations in four untested donors , and PP-SLIDE’s prediction that the latent reservoir is preferentially maintained in TIGIT-expressing cells in some but not all donors . The sorting strategies used in our validation experiments were designed to enable comparison of different populations of memory CD4+ T cells expressing high levels of PD1 , a marker preferentially expressed on reservoir cells  and which we found expressed at high levels on kNN latent cells . This was implemented for two reasons: First , to demonstrate that we can enrich for latent cells beyond the selection afforded by PD1 alone . Indeed both our viral outgrowth and proviral sequencing results confirmed PP-SLIDE’s prediction that some but not all PD1-expressing memory CD4+ T cells harbor high frequencies of latent HIV . Second , to enable mechanistic comparisons of highly similar populations of sorted cells harboring vastly different levels of replication-competent HIV . We found that in 7/8 cases , the enriched populations initiated more HIV transcription than their disenriched counterparts , suggesting that the transcriptionally active reservoir associates most closely with the replication-competent reservoir and therefore should be a target of HIV curative strategies . We also found that relative to disenriched populations , the enriched ones harbored higher proportions of EIS with intact p24 , consistent with the importance of clonal expansion in driving the maintenance of the replication-competent HIV reservoir  , although it should be noted that cells with different integration sites can harbor the same proviral sequence  . The overall frequency of intact provirus in the enriched PID5003 population was also extremely high: at 214 per million cells , it was more than an order of magnitude higher than what is observed in Tem  , the subset with the highest frequencies of intact provirus as assessed by FLIPS  . Interestingly , the intact sequences in this enriched population consisted of two large clusters of EIS , suggesting two major clonal expansions in this well-defined population of memory CD4+ cells sorted based on eight surface markers . As these two clusters of viral sequences likely integrated at different genomic sites , these observations support a host rather than virus-driven expansion of these latent cells . That we could find such vastly different levels of intact and replication-competent reservoir cells in our enriched versus disenriched populations goes against the notion that the reservoir is ‘everywhere’ and randomly distributed in all subsets . Most prior subset analyses had focused on the Tem and Tcm subsets , and when focusing on just these subsets our PP-SLIDE results indeed support the notion that both Tem and Tcm were prominent among kNN latent cells . However , our finding that the proportions of Tem were greater among the kNN latent cells than among atlas cells suggests that latency is somewhat biased toward the Tem subset , a finding in line with the higher prevalence of intact provirus in Tem over Tcm  . Further supporting a non-random distribution of the reservoir is our identification of markers consistently expressed at higher levels on kNN latent cells relative to memory CD4+ T cells . Such markers include ones previously implicated in latency   , some activation markers  , and markers of Th1 , Th2 , and Th17 cells  suggesting preferential persistence of HIV in more differentiated cells . The reservoir may persist in these cells due to antigen- or homeostatically-driven expansion of these cells which can maintain the reservoir through repeated cycles of clonal expansion . By comparing kNN latent cells from different donors versus longitudinal samples , we found intra-individual variability to be less than inter-individual variability . Our observation that different stimulatory signals reactivate different latent cells further suggests that ‘shock and kill’ strategies may require multiple LRAs , each preferentially targeting different cell subsets , as recently suggested  . Perhaps not surprising given the known phenotypic differences between T cells from blood versus tissues  , we found that blood and tissue kNN latent cells differ quite dramatically . High-dimensional distance calculations revealed that kNN latent cells were more similar between lymph node and gut than between the tissues and blood , suggesting phenotypic commonalities in the latent reservoir found in tissues . Indeed , kNN latent cells from both lymph node and gut expressed high levels of the Trm marker CD69 , suggesting that Trm in these tissues , like those from the cervix  , preferentially harbor the reservoir . Together with our observation that kNN latent cells from all sites examined expressed high levels of PD1 , these results suggest PD1-expressing Trm as possible targets to eliminate the tissue reservoir . Given recent findings that blood , lymph nodes , and gut are the major sources of HIV dissemination in ART-suppressed individuals  , targeting latent cells in the compartments analyzed in this study may be sufficient to make a meaningful reduction in the reservoir . However , PP-SLIDE enables in-depth charting of the latent reservoir residing in the blood and , likely , any tissue we can access . For therapeutic applications , surface antigens identified by PP-SLIDE as preferentially co-expressed on latent cells can be targeted with a series of bi- or multi-specific antibodies  . More importantly , our ability to isolate highly enriched populations of replication-competent reservoir cells enables in-depth functional analyses of the reservoir and potentiates future implementation of discovery-based approaches such as scRNAseq and PCR-activated cell sorting  . These approaches hold great promise for identifying novel markers for HIV eradication but require a high frequency of latent cells that was not achievable previously . We envision that implementing PP-SLIDE on cells phenotyped by scRNAseq together with Antibody-seq approaches  will enable even higher-resolution mapping , with the added advantage that whole-transcriptome approaches do not require pre-defining markers of interest , and allow for the discovery of unanticipated—and perhaps unique—markers of latent cells . Memory CD4+ T cells from the blood of two HIV-seronegative donors were purified as described above , and then resuspended at 2 × 107 cells/mL in PBS containing 0 . At the indicated time points , cells were stained with APC/Cyanine7 anti-human CD3  , PE/Cy7 anti-human CD4  , Alexa Fluor 700 anti-human CD8  , and Zombie Red  as a Live/Dead discriminator . Live , singlet CD3+CD4+CD8- cells were assessed for proliferation by monitoring the loss of CFSE signal . To demonstrate that the cocktail of ART used in this study was fully suppressive , PBMC-derived CD4+ T cells from HIV-seronegative donors were activated for 2 days with RP10 containing 10 μg PHA  and 100 IU/mL IL2  , washed with RP10 , and then cultured in 20 IU/mL IL2 for one additional day . The cells were then stained for 30 min at 4°C at a concentration of 106 cells/well in FACS buffer , with anti-CD3 APC/Cyanine7 , anti-CD4 PE/Cy7 , anti-CD8 Alexa Fluor 700 , and Zombie Aqua as a Live/Dead discriminator  . The cells were analyzed on an LSRII  and Flowjo software was used to gate on live , singlet CD3+CD8- cells and infection rates in these cells were monitored by GFP expression . For atlas generation , we used freshly isolated and purified memory CD4+ T cells from blood , or freshly isolated total cells from tissues  . The rest of the freshly isolated cells were stimulated to allow for latent cell reactivation . Finally , the cells were washed 2× with CyFACS buffer , once with MaxPar cell staining buffer  , and once with Cell acquisition solution  , and then resuspended in EQ Four Element Calibration Beads  diluted to 1× in CAS . For tissue specimens where multiple specimens were combined to minimize cell loss , the Cell-ID 20-Plex Pd Barcoding Kit  was used according to the manufacturer’s instructions to barcode the individual cisplatin-treated samples before mixing . Antigen targetCloneVendor  Live/Dead  BioLegend  PE-CF594 Mouse Anti-Human CD27M-T271BD  BUV737 Mouse Anti-Human CD38HB7BD  BUV395 Mouse Anti-Human CD45ROUCHL1BD  FITC Mouse Anti-Human CD57NK-1BD  BV650 Mouse Anti-Human CD62LDREG-56BD  APC Mouse Anti-Human CD69FN50BioLegend  BV421 Mouse Anti-Human CD69FN50BD  APC Mouse Anti-Human CD103Ber-ACT8BD  APC-R700 Rat Anti-Human CXCR5  RF8B2BD  PE-Cy7 Mouse Anti-Human CD134  ACT35BD  PE Mouse anti-Human CD279  EH12 . 2BD  BB515 Mouse Anti-Human CD49d9F10BD  PE/Dazzle 594 Mouse Anti-Human CD197  G043H7BioLegend  Brilliant Violet 421 Rat Anti-Human CD195  J418F1BioLegend  PE-Cy7 Mouse Anti-Human CD57TB01eBioscience  BUV395 Mouse Anti-Human CD252A3BD  APC-H7 Mouse Anti-Human CD7M-T701BD  BV605 Mouse Anti-Human CD127HIL-7R-M21BD  APC Mouse Anti-Human TIGITA15153GBioLegend  PE-Cy5 Mouse Anti-Human CD28CD28 . 2BioLegend  APC-Cy7 Mouse Anti-Human CD69FN50BD  BV421 Mouse Anti-Human CD2TS1/8BioLegend  PE-Cy7 Mouse Anti-Human CD57TBO1Invitrogen  Cells sorted from blood were cultured at a density of 106 cells/mL in RPMI in the presence of 60 IU/mL recombinant human IL-2  , and activated with Dynabeads Human T-Activator CD3/CD28  at a ratio of 1 bead/cell . After 48 hr of culture , cells were diluted to a concentration of 105 cells/mL in RPMI supplemented with 60 IU/mL recombinant human IL-2 , and then plated at 2 × 105 cells per well  , 4 × 104 cells per well  , 8 × 103 cells per well  , and 1 . On day 9 , half the cultures , inclusive of both cells and media , were discarded , and the remaining cells were replenished with the same volume of RPMI containing 105 Molt4/CCR5 cells . Pooled biopsy cells were plated in a limiting dilution format at five replicates at 470 , 000 cells per well , 12 replicates at 100 , 000 cells per well , and 12 replicates at 25 , 000 cells per well . The cells were washed and Molt4/CCR5 target cells were added to amplify outgrowth of HIV . A median of 140 individual proviruses  was sequenced per sorted population of cells from three of the four participant blood specimens analyzed by PP-SLIDE . For patient samples , events corresponding to live , singlet intact CD3+CD19-CD8- T cells from unstimulated samples were exported as a source of the atlas cells . Events corresponding to reactivated cells were identified by gating upon live , singlet intact CD3+CD19-CD8- T cells expressing Gag on all three Gag channels , and exported as the population of reactivated cells . PP-SLIDE analysis to identify kNN latent cells followed our previously described method  . Using a custom script in R  , each reactivated  cell from the stimulated sample was mapped against every cell in the unstimulated atlas generated immediately after sample procurement , to identify the kNN latent cells for each patient sample . The steps implemented for PP-SLIDE are summarized below: To assess the intra-individual and inter-individual variability in kNN latent cells and to compare kNN latent cells reactivated following treatment with PMA/ionomycin , anti-CD3/CD28 , and Romidepsin/PEP005 , empirical cumulative distributions were calculated . This section describes in detail how FlowSOM was implemented to cluster the atlas and kNN latent cells , and how this information was used to demonstrate non-random distribution of kNN latent cells among memory CD4+ T cells . The FlowSOM analysis for all four donor specimens revealed a non-random distribution of kNN latent cells among memory CD4+ T cells . TermDescriptionNlatent  Number of kNN latent cells in Cluster DXPlatent  Percent of kNN latent cells belonging to Cluster DXPlatent_null  Percent of kNN latent cells belonging to Cluster X under null hypothesis of stochastic distributionNlatent_null  Number of kNN latent cells in Cluster X under null hypothesis of stochastic distributionNday0  Number of atlas cells in Cluster X that were runNatlas  Number of atlas cells in Cluster X that would have been run to capture 20 reactivated cellsFlatent  Frequency of kNN latent cells per million cells of Cluster DX "
"Here , we show that tree-crickets optimize acoustic baffles , objects that are used to increase the effective loudness of mate-attraction calls . We quantified the acoustic efficiency of all baffles within the naturally feasible design space using finite-element modelling and found that design affects efficiency significantly . We tested the baffle-making behaviour of tree crickets in a series of experimental contexts . We found that given the opportunity , tree crickets optimised baffle acoustics; they selected the best sized object and modified it appropriately to make a near optimal baffle . Several strategies exist to enhance the radiation of acoustic energy  , but the principal strategy insects use is to exploit the mechanical resonance either of adapted body parts , such as wings , or tymbal organs  , or of their immediate environment as mole crickets do with their calling burrow  . Tree crickets use a unique and distinct strategy to enhance the reach of their call; they make and use their own acoustic baffles  . Tree crickets , like other crickets , produce sound by rubbing raised forewings together and setting them into resonant vibration  . The wing’s sound production capability is thus made inefficient by ‘acoustic short-circuiting’ , whereby the two opposing sound waves emanating from the wing destructively interfere at its edges , thus reducing the total radiated sound pressure   . A baffle provides exactly such acoustic isolation  . In effect , male tree crickets cut a hole in a leaf to make a baffle . They then place their head and forelegs through the hole and call with their wings parallel to the leaf surface and centred within the hole  . Given that the only function of the baffle is to prevent acoustic short circuiting , and not to resonate with the call , a tree cricket could use any leaf , or flat surface for this purpose . Baffle design has a profound effect on radiation efficiency , and tree crickets can select the best leaf to make a near optimal baffle . We show that we can quantitatively predict the relationship between calling effort  , baffle design , and the resulting sound using biomechanical and acoustical measurements , and finite element analysis  . Using FEA models , we calculate and test the efficiency of tree crickets calling from different natural baffle designs , accounting for the complex geometries of cricket wings , their self-made baffles , and the leaves crickets chose to call from . Measurements were made from freely behaving animals who sang when offered pre-made paper baffles  . To better understand the acoustic benefit offered by baffles , FEA models were developed of a cricket calling from a baffle identical to that used in the vibrometry experiment  . Real baffles , however , vary given that crickets encounter leaves of different sizes and produce dissimilar holes . Hence , baffles are also expected to vary in their capacity to enhance call amplitude . Larger leaves and cricket-size baffle holes are thought to make the best baffles  . Using FEA , we produced a quantitative comparison between different baffle designs using a metric we defined , sound radiation efficiency  . Therefore , we defined SRE as the average absolute sound pressure around the calling cricket over a fixed volume normalised to wing vibration amplitude  . SRE was calculated only for the range of leaf and hole sizes that encompasses natural variation  . We found that SRE increased with leaf size but became asymptotic for leaves longer than 100 mm , i . Thus , males choosing larger leaves would always make better baffles under natural conditions  . FEA also predicted that a baffle hole of length ~10 mm , the same as the model wing length  , was optimal  . 3 mPa/m∙s−1 was achieved by a baffle made with a leaf 110 . Having constructed a geometrically-resolved map of SRE for feasible baffles , we investigated whether male tree crickets optimized the acoustics of their baffles . SRE with a baffle of any size is higher than unbaffled calling  , and the expectation is that males should always baffle given an opportunity . In natural populations observed over three field seasons , however , the probability of finding a baffling male was as low as 26%  and while baffling males tended to be on larger leaves , there was wide variation in leaf size  . Thus baffled-calling is not a stereotyped and obligate calling behaviour; tree cricket males must decide whether to call with or without a baffle . In the wild , large leaves that can make acoustically optimal baffles are extremely rare and search costs are likely to be high  . However , if we eliminate search costs , the propensity to make a baffle may increase with leaf size , a hypothesis that we tested under controlled laboratory conditions . Males were offered leaves of four size classes , one leaf at a time , over four nights . Each night , they could choose either to make a baffle or to call from the edge of the leaf . In this situation , in the absence of search costs , calling males were only balancing the effort expended in making a baffle against the increased SRE . Baffling probability varied depending on the leaf size  and was significantly different between extra-large and large leaf sizes  , large and medium leaf sizes  and medium and small leaf sizes  . The larger the leaves , the more likely the crickets were to make a baffle  . However , the probability of making a baffle approached 50% only with leaves between 61 and 69 mm long , where SRE increased by 54% . Even with the largest leaves , baffling probability did not exceed 67% , and 33% of the males missed the opportunity to more than double their SRE and thus their active acoustic space  . All males that made a baffle  used the larger leaf . Thus , given the opportunity males would indeed optimize the SRE of their baffles in terms of both selecting the appropriate materials , i . Males , however , did not make holes at the exact centre of leaves  . An SRE map was constructed by varying hole position across an average leaf in the large size class . This map revealed that SRE was highest at the leaf centre and decreased for eccentric hole positions  . A central-hole baffle on the smaller leaf would have achieved an SRE of 226 . The radiation efficiency of the real baffles made by the crickets was 332 . Indeed , closer observation of baffle holes  showed that males never cut through major leaf veins . Surprisingly , most males made only one hole and thus made a baffle in a single attempt , without any progressive trial and error optimization of baffle design . Baffles however , are unique and cannot be ‘edited’ unlike cavities; once a hole has been cut in a leaf , it cannot be erased or repositioned . Here we show that cutting a new hole entails the risk of making a sub-optimal baffle by reducing current SRE through increased acoustic short-circuiting . We studied the effect of a second hole on SRE by simulating a scenario where an eccentric hole was abandoned and a second , optimally centred hole was constructed . The map depicts at each primary hole position , the percent change in SRE if the male abandoned that position and made a centrally positioned secondary hole  . A second baffle hole would accrue a large increase in SRE only if the primary hole was near a leaf margin and produced very low SRE to begin with  . The only two-holed baffle observed was from a male that made an unusually eccentric primary baffle hole  . Interestingly , our simulations predict that the more central the primary hole , the less beneficial a secondary baffle hole becomes and in the central zone of the leaf , a second hole becomes deleterious to SRE  . Our observations show that the first holes made by males are already close to the centre; if they made a second central hole , six males would have decreased SRE by 6 . This finding supports the notion that crickets position their baffle holes with geometric optimality , but also avoid jeopardising this optimality . This may be why large , and sought-after , leaves only ever have one baffle hole . Near-optimal SREs are achieved by most males at the first baffling attempt  and most attempts at improvement can be predicted as being futile  . The question naturally arises as to how tree crickets make acoustically optimal baffles in a single attempt ? In the tree cricket genus Oecanthus , baffle making is common  and expressed by many individuals within the species , suggesting that it is an inherited trait . We surmise that tree crickets accomplish acoustic optimization using hard-wired heuristics or ‘rules of thumb’  , which require them to make a series of choices . If a male decides to make a baffle , three simple rules can produce an optimal baffle in a single attempt:  find the largest available leaf ,  place the hole as close to the centre of the leaf as possible and  cut a hole that can just accommodate wings  . These rules encode sufficient information to capture the shape of SRE landscape within baffle design space into a simple , yet high-accuracy heuristic that always produces the baffle with the highest possible SRE . It is possible that the tree crickets learn the SRE landscape , however , we believe that this is unlikely since the opportunity for learning is small due to life-history and time constraints . Finding and testing each leaf size with every baffle position to find the optimal solution , especially with large leaf sizes being so rare , would require a formidably large number of learning trials and considerable memory . One context in which this may be important is tool use; the conventional view is that invertebrates generally inherit tool use behaviour  and hence have highly stereotyped tool use , whereas vertebrates inherit a propensity to ‘innovate’ tool behaviour and hence have flexible tool use  . It is suggested that baffles may be tools or borderline tools  , therefore baffle optimization suggests that inherited mechanisms such as heuristics may enable flexibility and even optimization in invertebrate tool use . Indeed , tree cricket behaviour shows that even inherited heuristic mechanisms may enable flexibility and even optimization , prompting a re-examination of invertebrate tool use . In summary , tree cricket males that call from the edge of leaves tend to have low efficiencies  and those that make baffles can achieve much higher efficiencies  . Thus , by finding the largest leaf and making a near optimal baffle , a male tree cricket can increase his active acoustic area by as much as four times  , greatly increasing his chances of attracting a mate . The increase in call amplitude that baffling confers can work in two ways . Baffling can either add to the existing variability , broadening the distribution of male call amplitudes or it can function as a compensatory mechanism: males unable to call loudly may make a baffle instead . Behavioural experiments show that despite the advantage baffles confer , only a few animals choose to make a baffle under natural conditions . The rarity of baffling suggests that manufacturing a baffle may be a costly activity  . In contrast , all mole cricket males stereotypically make acoustic burrow chambers that resonate and boost call amplitude  . The low incidence of baffling and high variability in baffle design observed in natural baffling behaviour  are quite distinct . Thus , baffle making may represent a unique system in which ‘good’ males use an acoustically optimized object to further enhance their mate-attraction signal . Another enticing possibility is that baffle-making may have evolved as an alternative strategy allowing smaller males , or those in poorer condition , to sound bigger or louder than they actually are . Vibration velocities from the forewings of freely calling tree cricket  males calling from baffles were measured using a micro-scanning laser Doppler vibrometer  with a Polytec PSV-I-400 scanning head fitted with a close-up attachment , and digitized using the Polytec Scanning Vibrometer software  through a data acquisition board  . During calling , the peak baffle surface displacements were considerably lower  than the wings leading us to conclude that the baffles did not act as significant secondary acoustic radiators . Finite element analysis  models of a cricket calling in free space or on different baffles were created to investigate pressures produced by vibrating cricket wings . Oecanthus henryi males are observed to call and manufacture baffles from Hyptis suaveolens leaves in the wild . "
"We show that endogenous VCP negatively regulates Mitofusin , which is required for outer mitochondrial membrane fusion . Because 90% of IBMPFD patients have myopathy , we generated an in vivo IBMPFD model in adult Drosophila muscle , which recapitulates disease pathologies . We show that common VCP disease mutants act as hyperactive alleles with respect to regulation of Mitofusin . Importantly , VCP inhibitors suppress mitochondrial defects , muscle tissue damage and cell death associated with IBMPFD models in Drosophila . These inhibitors also suppress mitochondrial fusion and respiratory defects in IBMPFD patient fibroblasts . These results suggest that VCP disease mutants cause IBMPFD through a gain-of-function mechanism , and that VCP inhibitors have therapeutic value . 90% of IBMPFD patients display skeletal muscle weakness  , the primary and earliest symptom of IBMPFD  . VCP mutations are also associated with 1–2% of cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  , familial hereditary spastic paraplegia  and Charcot-Marie-Tooth 2  disease  . VCP encodes a highly conserved and abundant AAA+ ATPase which participates in multiple cellular processes  . Human p97/VCP and its Drosophila homologue have 85% identity and 93% similarity in protein sequence . VCP has three major domains: the regulatory N domain , and the D1 and D2 ATPase domains . VCP hexameric rings utilize the energy from ATP hydrolysis to promote protein and RNA homeostasis , often by directly or indirectly modifying the fate of ubiquitin-labeled proteins  . VCP functions in multiple contexts that include protein quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum  , chromatin modification  , endolysosomal sorting  , membrane fusion  , autophagosome/lyosome function  , ER protein translocation  , formation of stress granules  and ciliogenesis  . VCP interacts with a number of co-factors to regulate these processes  , making it challenging to identify the molecular basis of phenotypes associated with disease mutations . Disease-causing , single missense mutations of VCP are mainly located in the N-terminal half of the protein , either in the N domain or the D1 domain . However , because VCP assembles as a hexamer , it is controversial whether disease mutants with increased ATPase activity cause disease through a dominant-active  or dominant-negative mechanism  . VCP disease mutants predominantly affect organs that have a high level of energy expenditure , such as brain and muscle . Mitochondria provide the bulk of the ATP to these tissues through oxidative phosphorylation , and mitochondrial functional defects , including mitochondrial uncoupling and decreased ATP production , are observed in IBMPFD patient fibroblasts  . Abnormal mitochondria are also observed in transgenic VCP disease mutant R155H mice as well as VCP R155H knock-in mice  . These observations suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is important for the pathogenesis of IBMPFD , but the mechanism by which VCP mutation alters mitochondrial function is not clear . In mammals , homologous proteins Mitofusin 1 and 2  mediate mitochondrial outer membrane fusion , with loss of function of Mfn 1 and 2 resulting in fragmented mitochondria and multiple defects in mitochondrial function  . In Hela cells , VCP promotes Mfn 1 degradation  . VCP also mediates Mfn 1 and 2 degradation when mitophagy is stimulated in mammalian cells , and overexpression of VCP in Drosophila leads to downregulation of a tagged Mfn-transgene  . These observations led us to investigate the mitochondrial basis and molecular mechanisms for VCP disease mutants function using both Drosophila and IBMPFD patient cell models . As IBMPFD show the highest penetrance in muscle , with 90% of patients manifesting phenotypes in this tissue , we generated Drosophila models of IBMPFD in muscle , which recapitulate disease pathologies . We provide evidence in both Drosophila and human patient cells that VCP disease mutants have an enhanced ability to promote Mfn degradation , loss of which is associated with defects in mitochondrial fusion and physiology . Consistent with the hypothesis that VCP disease phenotypes are due to increased activity on substrates , we find that VCP ATPase activity inhibitors such as NMS-873 and ML240 can significantly rescue mitochondrial defects , disrupted muscle integrity and muscle cell death in vivo in Drosophila , and mitochondrial fusion and respiration defects in IBMPFD patient fibroblasts . Since VCP disease mutants have dramatic muscle phenotypes in humans and mouse models , and these are associated with defects in mitochondrial structure and function , we first examined the consequences of manipulating VCP levels . Using the UAS-Gal4 system  , we expressed VCP under the control of an IFM promoter derived from the flightin gene we previously generated  . While expression of VCP under the control of the pan-muscle Gal4 drivers 24B-Gal4 or Mef2-Gal4 resulted in 100% adult lethality , expression of wildtype VCP under IFM control , which provides a pulse of expression in late pupal stages and early adulthood , gave rise to viable flies with intact and healthy muscle following adult eclosion . In 2-day-old flies , expression of VCP results in muscle with small mitochondria with intact cristae  . Similar phenotypes are also observed in muscle from 6-day-old VCP-expressing flies  . Conversely , expression of UAS-VCP RNAi under IFM control  results in mitochondria with an elongated phenotype  . Two independent VCP RNAi lines were utilized and both showed significant knockdown  . Endogenous VCP regulates mitochondrial fusion via negative regulation of Mfn protein levels . MitoGFP localization to mitochondria serves as a marker for healthy mitochondria and their morphology in the indirect flight muscle . VCP overexpression  results in small mitochondria compared to wildtype  flies  ; VCP RNAi expression results in elongated mitochondria  . Electronic microscopic  images show that VCP OE  results in smaller mitochondria as compared with WT  . VCP RNAi generates elongated mitochondria with intact cristae  . Wildtype  cells are labeled with two copies of RFP , +/+; heterozygous mutant cells have one copy of RFP and one copy of vcp loss-of-function mutant , vcpK15502/+; homozygous mutant cells are RFP negative and have two copies of vcp loss-of-function mutant , vcpK15502/vcpK15502 . Mitochondria appear as discrete and punctate structures in wildtype  and heterozygous vcp mutant cells  , but becomes elongated and clumped in homozygous vcp loss-of-function mutant cells  . NLS; Green signal is anti-GFP staining of pCasper-Mfn-eGFP . Wildtype cells are RFP positive and homozygous vcp loss-of-function mutant cells are RFP negative  . pCasper-Mfn-eGFP levels significantly increase in homozygous vcp loss-of-function mutant cells  . VCP overexpression leads to smaller mitochondria , while VCP RNAi leads to elongated mitochondria in 2-day-old indirect flight muscles . EM shows that compared to WT  , VCP WT has smaller mitochondria with intact cristae  . VCP RNAi results in mitochondrial elongation  in 2-day-old flies . IFM-Gal4 driven UAS-VCP RNAi results in a significant decrease in VCP levels . Expression of VCP RNAi line 1 and RNAi line 2 result in a decrease in VCP levels to 45 . Normalized VCP levels are shown as mean±½SD . pCasper-Mfn-eGFP colocalizes with the mitochondria marker ATP5A , and is silenced by expression of dsRNA targeting endogenous Mfn . One nurse cell of a stage 10B egg chamber in transgenetic flies carrying the genomic rescue of Mfn  . The pCasper-Mfn-eGFP construct expresses Mfn-eGFP under the control of the endogenous Mfn promoter . S2 cells were transfected with pCasper-Mfn-eGFP and blotted and probed with anti-GFP antibody . Mfn dsRNA treatment results in loss of Mfn-eGFP expression . 006 To explore the generality of VCP’s ability to regulate mitochondrial morphology we also examined mitochondrial morphology phenotypes of a vcp loss-of-function mutation . vcp null mutants in Drosophila are embryonic lethal  . As an alternative , we focused on the Drosophila female germline , in which a vcp loss-of-function mutant can be monitored in individual nurse cells , which are relatively large and offer great resolution for examining mitochondrial morphology . vcpK15502 is a strong loss-of-function allele that has a P element insertion at the 5’-UTR of Drosophila VCP gene  and has been used to generate vcp loss-of-function clones in imaginal discs  . We utilized the FLP/FRT system  to create mitotic recombinants in which nurse cells were either wildtype  , heterozygous  or homozygous  for the vcp loss-of-function mutation  . In this system wildtype and heterozygous vcp loss-of-function mutant cells carry 2 or 1 copies of ubi-mRFP . NLS  respectively , whereas the homozygous vcp mutant cells are RFP negative  . Mitochondria in wildtype and heterozygous vcp mutant cells have a punctate morphology  . In contrast , in homozygous vcp loss-of-function mutants mitochondria are more tubular and clumped  . Together , these results suggest that endogenous VCP negatively regulates mitochondrial fusion or positively regulates fission . Next , we investigated how vcp loss-of-function leads to elongated mitochondria . First , we examined the expression levels of Mfn in the female germline , using mosaic analysis , as above . We used a tagged genomic rescue transgene  to monitor the endogenous Mfn level as the existing anti-Mfn antibody lacked sufficient sensitivity . As expected , the genomic rescue Mfn-eGFP signal colocalizes with the mitochondria marker ATP5A in the nurse cells  . This signal is eliminated following Mfn RNAi , indicating that genomic rescue Mfn-eGFP is a reliable marker for endogenous Mfn  . In each egg chamber , vcp loss-of-function cells are adjacent to wildtype cells , providing an ideal opportunity to unambigously compare the levels of Mfn . As shown in Figure 1J–J’’ , nurse cells homozygous for a vcp loss-of-function mutant have greatly increased Mfn levels compared to wildtype and heterozygous vcp loss-of-function cells . The findings that endogenous VCP regulates Mfn in vivo are unexpected and important , as VCP is a highly abundant cytosolic protein with many targets and VCP does not show appreciable localization to mitochondria in unstressed cells . Second , we examined whether alteration of vcp can regulate Mfn levels in tissue lysate . Overexpression of wildtype VCP  in the flight muscle resulted in a decrease in endogenous Mfn levels  . VCP overexpression also caused a decrease in the levels of Mfn when Mfn was overexpressed  using the IFM promoter , suggesting that VCP regulates Mfn post transcriptionally  . Conversely , VCP RNAi resulted in an increase in endogenous Mfn levels in a wildtype background , and an increase in total Mfn levels in the presence of Mfn OE  . In contrast , VCP overexpression does not alter the levels of pro-fission protein DRP1  . In addition , VCP’s regulation of Mfn is specific and not part of a general mitophagy response since the levels of other mitochondrial proteins , such as the outer membrane protein Porin , the inner membrane protein NDUSF3 , and the matrix protein MnSOD , are not altered  . To explore the possibility that Mfn is a direct target for VCP , we asked if Mfn could physically interact with VCP in immunoprecipitation assays from S2 cells . Indeed , full length VCP strongly interacts with Mfn  . VCP has been shown to interact with substrate through the D1 ATPase domain , with the presence of the N domain being essential for the interaction  . As shown in Figure 2E , this is also the case with the VCP-Mfn interaction . When the N domain of VCP is deleted , the strength of VCP-Mfn interaction is decreased , and it is undetectable when N and D1 are both deleted . In contrast , removal of the D2 domain has no effect on interaction between VCP and Mfn . Interestingly , Mfn levels in the input blot are decreased under conditions when VCP and Mfn interact , but not under conditions in which interactions are not observed , consistent with the hypothesis that direct interaction between VCP and Mfn is required for Mfn degradation . Together , these observations suggest that Mfn is a specific , direct target of VCP . Mfn is a specific target of VCP . In fly thoraxes , VCP OE in wildtype  and Mfn OE background results in a significant decrease in Mfn levels . VCP RNAi leads to enhanced Mfn levels  . VCP RNAi results in accumulation of Mfn in the Mfn OE background  . Mfn levels are normalized with Hsp60 and are displayed as mean±½SD . VCP OE also does not result in changes in the levels of the pro-fission protein DRP1 level  . Markers for various mitochondrial compartments , including Porin  , MnSOD  , and NDUSF3  were not altered by VCP overexpression . Schematic diagram of full length and truncated VCP forms used in protein interaction assays in S2 cells . Protein interactions are assayed between full length and truncated VCP forms and Mfn . N and D1 domains are essential domains for the VCP-Mfn interaction . We and others have shown that PINK1 and Parkin function in the same pathway , with PINK1 positively regulating Parkin to control mitochondrial integrity and quality control in Drosophila  . Importantly , levels of Mfn are significantly increased in PINK1 and parkin null mutants and downregulation of Mfn protein levels suppresses phenotypes in both mutants  . The results presented above suggest that expression of VCP , by decreasing the level of Mfn , could also suppress PINK1/parkin phenotypes . have argued that VCP expression suppresses PINK1 , but not parkin loss-of-function phenotypes . This , along with their observation that VCP levels at mitochondria increased following expression of Parkin in the presence of CCCP , suggested a model in which VCP action on mitochondria requires recruitment by Parkin  . We expressed VCP in the flight muscle of PINK1 and parkin mutants . As previously shown  , PINK1 and parkin null mutants show mitochondrial defects and tissue disintegration with vacuolation in muscle  . At the ultrastructural level , PINK1 and parkin mutants display swollen mitochondria with a broken cristae  . VCP OE completely suppressed tissue damage and mitochondrial defects  . The thorax indentation phenotype in PINK1/parkin mutants is also completely suppressed by VCP overexpression under the control of the IFM-Gal4 driver , but not the EDTP-Gal4 driver  . As predicted for a mechanism of VCP action that occurs through regulation of Mfn , VCP OE significantly reduced the accumulation of Mfn normally observed in both mutants  . VCP overexpression suppresses mitochondrial defects in PINK1 null , parkin null and parkin mul1 double null mutants . Compared to wildtype  , parkin and PINK1 mutants lose MitoGFP signal and accumulate large aggregates . VCP OE  significantly rescues the MitoGFP phenotype in both mutants . Toluidine Blue shows that vacuole formation in the muscle tissue in parkin and PINK1 mutants is robustly suppressed by VCP OE . parkin and PINK1 mutants display swollen mitochondria with broken cristae  . VCP OE  completely rescued the mitochondrial defects in both mutants  . VCP OE caused a decrease in Mfn accumulation in parkin and PINK1 mutants . Mfn protein levels in the parkin mutant increased to 2 . VCP OE caused a decrease in Mfn levels in the parkin mutant to 1 . In PINK1 mutants , Mfn levels increased to 2 . 11 as compared with wildtype , while VCP OE in PINK1 mutant caused Mfn levels to decrease  . Normalized Mfn levels are shown as mean±½SD . Compared to wildtype , the parkin mul1 mutant lacks the most MitoGFP signal and large aggregates are present  . VCP OE  rescues the MitoGFP phenotype in parkin mul1 mutants  . EDTP-Gal4 driven UAS-MitoGFP signal is barely detected in the thorax , where the indirect flight muscle is located , suggesting that EDTP-Gal4 does not have sufficient flight muscle specific expression . Schematic diagram showing that PINK/Parkin in parallel with Mul1 negatively regulates Mfn protein levels; VCP negatively regulates Mfn protein levels independent of these modifiers . IFM-Gal4 driven UAS-VCP expression but not EDTP-Gal4 driven UAS-VCP rescues thorax defects in PINK1 and parkin mutants in Drosophila . Thorax indentation  is observed in both PINK1 and parkin mutants , indicative of muscle tissue damage . EDTP-Gal4 driven UAS-VCP does not rescue this defect in PINK1 and parkin mutants . IFM-Gal4 driven UAS-VCP completely rescues the thorax indentation in both mutants . 009 To further substantiate the finding that overexpression of VCP suppresses parkin null mutants , we also examined VCP’s ability to suppress mitochondrial phenotypes associated with loss of both parkin and mul1 . MUL1  is a RING-containing E3 ligase that acts as a negative regulator of Mfn in both Drosophila and mammals  . When overexpressed , it suppresses PINK1 and parkin null mutant phenotypes by degrading Mfn , while loss of mul1 leads to increased levels of Mfn . Thus , parkin mul1 double null mutants have strikingly more severe mitochondrial phenotypes than those observed in flies lacking parkin alone  . Remarkably , expression of VCP resulted in a dramatic rescue of mitochondrial morphology due to lack of both parkin and mul1  . Together , these results suggest that VCP-dependent suppression of PINK1 null , parkin null and parkin mul1 double phenotypes occurs through downregulaton of Mfn levels  . Together , our observations argue that VCP regulates Mfn levels under non-stress conditions . They also show that VCP-dependent regulation of Mfn does not require PINK1 or Parkin . However , these results do not exclude the possibility that Parkin activation further promotes VCP-dependent Mfn degradation under some situations . To explore the basis of myopathy induced by VCP disease mutants we sought to create a model of IBMPFD in Drosophila muscle , as 90% of the IBMPFD patients show muscle phenotypes . Since VCP disease mutations are autosomal dominant , we characterized the consequences of disease mutant overexpression . The pathologies observed in IBMPFD patient muscle , and in muscle from VCP disease mutant transgenic and mouse knock-in models , include muscle cell death , changes in mitochondrial morphology , damaged tissue integrity , TAR DNA-binding protein 43  mislocalization to the cytosol , and formation of autophagic marker p62 and ubiquitin aggregates , signs of multisystem proteinopathy  . Previous studies of VCP disease mutants in Drosophila muscle showed effects on tissue integrity and mitochondria cristae structure  , but not other pathologies . We thus investigated the pathologies due to mutant VCP expression . We focused on expression of VCP R152H and A229E  , as they are the most frequent and the most severe mutations identified , respectively  . Anti-VCP antibody blotting shows that VCP WT , VCP RH and VCP AE are expressed at comparable level in the fly's thorax  . In wildtype flies , flies with IFM-Gal4 insertion , and flies with VCP WT expression , the muscle structure was healthy and intact 6 days after eclosion . Together these observations indicate that increased expression of VCP is not overtly toxic . In contrast , muscle from flies expressing VCP RH or VCP AE under IFM-Gal4 control  showed extensive cell death  , defective MitoGFP signals  , and severely disrupted muscle integrity  . In addition , while in wildtype and VCP WT flies TDP43 was found in IFM nuclear and sarcoplasmic compartments , IFMs from VCP RH and AE flies showed a decrease in the intensity of the nuclear signal , and an increase in the intensity of staining associated with puncta in the sarcoplasmic area  . Muscle from VCP RH and AE flies also contained large aggregates of anti-p62 and anti-ubiquitin staining . These were not observed in wildtype or VCP WT flies  . Together , these observations indicate that IFM-specific expression of VCP RH and AE recapitulates a broad spectrum of IBMPFD disease pathologies and forms the strong basis for further investigation of disease mechanisms and treatment studies . Expression of VCP disease mutants and mfn RNAi knocking down lead to pathology in adult muscle tissue . Diagram of Human p97/VCP protein domains and two disease mutants , VCP R155H and A232E . Their corresponding Drosophila homologues are VCP R152H and A229E , hereafter referred to as VCP RH and AE . Expression levels of UAS-VCP WT , RH and AE disease mutants expressed under IFM-Gal4 are comparable . 6-day-old WT  flies and VCP WT flies have healthy muscles  and are MitoGFP positive  . 6-day-old VCP RH and AE expressing flies show high levels of TUNEL staining . Toluidine Blue staining of muscle in WT , VCP WT , RH and AE flies . Myofibrils are well aligned with densely packed mitochondria in WT and VCP WT flies 6 days after eclosion  . In VCP RH and AE flies fiber structure is disrupted , and mitochondria are misaligned and lightly stained , with empty spaces in between  . Anti-TDP43 antibody staining shows nuclear  and sarcoplasmic localization of TDP-43 in WT and VCP WT adult fly muscle  . In VCP RH and AE flies the nuclear signal disappears and the signal is increased in muscle sarcoplasm  . The signal is weak and uniform in WT and VCP WT flies  , and punctate in VCP RH and AE flies  . Signal is weak and uniform in WT and VCP WT flies  , and punctate in VCP RH and AE flies  . Effects of mfn RNAi in 8-day-old adult muscle tissue . mfn RNAi muscle visualized with the same probes as above . Muscle isolated from flies expressing VCP disease mutants does not show gross defects at 2 days post eclosion . Toluidine Blue staining of overall muscle morphology shows that VCP RH and AE expression does not result in tissue damage . Cell death , as visualized using TUNEL/MitoGFP assay , is absent  and MitoGFP localization  is normal in VCP RH and AE . 011 Next , we investigated the cellular basis of mitochondrial defects in our IBMPFD flies using electron microscopy . 6 days after eclosion , flies expressing VCP WT have smaller mitochondria as compared with control flies , but with intact cristae  . In VCP RH and AE muscle , however , mitochondria are smaller in size , and more fragmented than in VCP WT flies . This phenotype is similar to that of flies with a muscle-specific Mfn knock down   . Muscle from 2-day-old VCP RH and VCP AE flies also show similar phenotypes to Mfn knock down  . VCP disease mutants are hyperactive in downregulating Mfn protein levels and inhibiting mitochondrial fusion . Compared to WT  , mitochondria are smaller with intact cristea in VCP WT  6 days after eclosion . Expression of VCP RH and AE leads to distorted fiber structure , and small mitochondria with broken or empty cristae . mfn RNAi flies have similar morphological defects in mitochondria  . Expression of VCP RH and AE lead to a further reduction in Mfn as compared to VCP WT . Mfn levels in VCP WT are reduced to 0 . Mfn levels in VCP RH and AE are reduced to 0 . Mfn levels are normalized with those of Hsp60 , a mitochondria marker . Expression of VCP ATPase defective mutant E2Q  does not significantly change the Mfn level in fly thoraxes as compared with Gal4 control . Normalized Mfn levels are shown as mean±½SD . MitoGFP localization assay shows expression of VCP WT  , RH  and AE  potently rescues the mitochondrial defects in parkin mutant  . Expression of the ATPase defective mutant E2Q  or VCP RNAi  does not . MitoGFP assay shows expression of VCP WT  , RH  and AE  potently rescues the mitochondrial defects in parkin mul1 double mutants  . Expression of VCP E2Q  and VCP RNAi  do not . Western blot shows that increased Mfn levels normally present in a parkin null mutant are significantly decreased in VCP WT , RH and AE flies , but not in VCP E2Q flies . Mfn levels are further decreased in a parkin mutant expressing VCP RH  or AE  , as compared to VCP WT . Normalized Mfn levels are shown as mean±½SD . Expression of VCP disease mutants leads to small mitochondria with abnormal cristae , phenotypes similar to mfn RNAi knocking down . 2 days after eclosion , EM shows that compared to WT  , VCP WT expression results in smaller mitochondrial with intact cristae  . VCP RH and AE also have smaller and fragmented mitochondria , but the cristae are abnormal  , similar to the phenotype of mfn RNAi flies  . Mfn expression can suppress mitochondrial defects observed in VCP RH and AE flies . 2 copies of genomic rescue Mfn-HA  lead to a heterogeneous mitochondrial phenotype in which some mitochondria are elongated . In 2-day-old flies , expression of 2 copies pCasper-Mfn-HA  results in suppression of mitochondrial defects  in VCP RH  and AE  flies . Mfn expression does not significantly rescue the pathology in VCP RH and AE fly muscles . 2 copies of the pCasper-Mfn-HA/eGFP transgene in VCP RH and AE flies at 6 days of age does not significantly alter muscle cell death assayed by TUNEL/MitoGFP  , overall tissue disintegration  , TDP43 mislocalization  , or the frequency of p62  and ubiquitin positive aggregates  . 015 The strong mitochondrial phenotypes observed in VCP RH or VCP AE predicts that expression of VCP RH or VCP AE may result in a greater decrease in Mfn levels as compared with the expression of VCP WT . This raises the possibility that VCP RH and AE are hyperactive alleles . To further substantiate these findings , we compared the Mfn levels in flies expressing VCP E2Q , a well-established ATPase defective mutant containing two mutations  that abolish the ATPase activity of the D1 and D2 domains . Expression of E2Q did not significantly change the Mfn levels  . As a control , the expression of any of the above forms of VCP did not alter expression levels of mitochondrial matrix protein Hsp60  . These results suggest that VCP disease mutants are hyperactive with respect to promoting downregulation of Mfn levels . Based on these observations , we hypothesized that VCP disease mutants should also rescue mitochondrial phenotypes in parkin and parkin mul1 double mutants . As shown in Figure 5G–J , expression of VCP RH and AE mutants , but not VCP E2Q or VCP RNAi , robustly restored mitochondrial structure , as indicated by MitoGFP fluorescence , in the parkin null mutant  . Moreover , corresponding to the mitochondrial phenotypes , the accumulation of Mfn in parkin mutants was significantly reduced in the presence of VCP WT , RH and AE , with VCP RH and AE causing greater decreases in Mfn levels than VCP WT  . In addition , VCP RH and AE expression also robustly rescued the mitochondrial defects in the parkin mul1 double null mutants , but an expression of VCP E2Q or VCP RNAi did not  . Taken together , these results indicate that VCP RH and AE disease mutants do not behave as ATPase defective or loss-of-function mutants , and instead are hyperactive with respect to regulation of Mfn . A prediction from our finding that Mfn downregulation is important for IBMPFD pathology is that downregulation of Mfn should result in phenotypes similar to those observed with an expression of VCP disease mutants . Indeed , mfn muscle-specific knockdown flies have fragmented mitochondria  , TDP43 mislocalization  , vacuole formation  , p62 and ubiquitin accumulation  , as with the VCP disease mutants . Next we asked if mfn overexpression could rescue the phenotypes due to VCP RH and AE . Since mfn overexpression results in significant mitochondrial phenotypes , tissue disintegration and cell death on its own  , we are unable to address this question completely due to a technical limitation . We were , however , able to bring about a mild increase in Mfn levels through addition of 2 copies of an mfn genomic rescue transgene in the background of VCP RH and AE expressing flies . Interestingly , this resulted in a suppression of the mitochondrial fragmentation and cristae phenotypes in 2-day-old VCP RH and AE flies  but not the pathology observed in VCP RH and AE fly muscles at 6 days  . Together , our data suggest that downregulation of Mfn is an important contributor to IBMPFD muscle pathology . As shown in Figure 6A , the basal level Oxygen Consumption Rate  in the VCP RH patient cells is slightly decreased compared to the healthy control , suggesting that baseline mitochondrial respiratory chain function is compromised in patient cells . Maximum OCR , measured in the presence of the uncoupler FCCP , is significantly decreased in VCP RH IBMPFD patient cells . IBMPFD patient cells carrying the VCPR155H/+ mutation have decreased Mfn 1 and Mfn 2 levels and reduced mitochondrial fusion . Mfn 1 and 2 levels are consistently decreased in three independent lysates from the IBMPFD patient fibroblasts when compared to the healthy control . Mfn 1 levels in patient fibroblasts are reduced to 0 . 14 of the controls  ; Mfn 2 levels are reduced to 0 . Normalized Mfn 1 and 2 levels are shown as mean±½SD . Mitochondrial fusion assay utilizing photoactivatable mitoGFP  in healthy control and IBMPFD patient fibroblasts . Mfn 1 and 2 levels in VCP RH cells were reduced to 0 . To explore the functional significance of this decrease , we carried out mitochondrial fusion assays using fibroblasts from healthy controls and patients . In control cells , PA-GFP gradually decreases after photoactivation; in the VCP RH IBMPFD patient cells , the GFP signal decrease is significantly delayed  . These data suggest that the VCP RH mutation results in a decrease in Mfn 1 and 2 levels that lead to impaired mitochondrial fusion . In addition , the VCP mutant impairs both basal and maximal mitochondrial respiratory function . It has been controversial in the field whether VCP disease mutants with increased ATPase activity behave as dominant-active or dominant-negative mutants . Some studies show that VCP RH and AE , with enhanced ATPase activity  , result in hyperactivity in animal disease models  . Understanding how VCP disease mutants behave is critical for understanding the disease process and finding possible therapies . We hypothesize that if an abnormally enhanced ATPase activity causes pathology , disease severity should ameliorate if ATPase activity is decreased through the use of VCP ATPase inhibitors . To test this hypothesis , we characterized the effects of VCP inhibitors in vivo . Multiple VCP ATPase activity inhibitors have recently been described  . NMS-873 , 3- triazol-4-yl]-pyridine , an allosteric inhibitor of VCP ATPase activity , is a highly specific and robust VCP ATPase inhibitor  . ML240 , 2-  −8-methoxy-N-  −4-quinazolinamine is another potent inhibitor , which competitively blocks ATP binding to VCP  . We first examined the effects of VCP inhibitors delivered to Drosophila through feeding . NMS-873 or ML240 feeding resulted in dramatic mitochondrial elongation in wildtype animals as visualized with MitoGFP using light microscopy  and at the ultrastructural level using EM  . These phenotypes are similar to those observed following VCP RNAi  . The smaller mitochondria phenotype associated with overexpression of VCP WT was also significantly suppressed following feeding with 30 µM NMS-873 or 30 µM ML240  . Feeding with NMS-873 and ML240 also reversed the phenotypic rescue of mitochondrial defects caused by expression of VCP WT , RH and AE in PINK1 mutants  . Supporting these results , feeding with NMS-873 also resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the levels of Mfn  . Together , these observations suggest that NMS-873 and ML240 inhibit endogenous VCP in vivo , resulting in a phenocopy of loss of VCP function . VCP inhibitors promote mitochondrial elongation . Compared to DMSO-fed flies , 10 µM NMS-873 or ML240 feeding results in more fused mitochondria in 2-day-old flies . In 6-day-old flies fed with 30 µM NMS-873  or 30 µM ML240  , elongated mitochondria  are observed in muscle . Mitochondria are small in VCP WT flies  as compared with WT  . In wildtype flies , 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 feeding results in a mitochondrial size increase to 6 . VCP WT expression results in small mitochondria  as compared with WT  . pCasper-Mfn-eGFP levels accumulate in a dose dependent manner when treated with NMS-873 at 0 . VCP inhibitor treatment blocks VCP WT and disease mutant rescue of mitochondrial defects in a PINK1 mutant . MitoGFP assay shows that NMS-873 and ML240 feeding blocks the ability of VCP WT to rescue PINK1 mutant mitochondrial phenotypes in a dose-dependent manner . 10 µM NMS-873 blocks VCP WT  , RH  and AE  rescue of PINK1 mutant mitochondrial phenotypes  as does feeding with 15 µM ML240 in rescue flies of VCP WT  , RH  and AE  in PINK1 mutant . 018 We then fed NMS-873 and ML240 to VCP RH and AE disease mutant flies and analyzed mitochondrial phenotypes , muscle viability and integrity in 6-day-old flies . In control and VCP WT expressing flies , NMS-873 and ML240 feeding resulted in normal development to adulthood  and did not cause muscle death or tissue damage; all muscles were TUNEL negative and had an intact tissue structure  . Strikingly , NMS-873 and ML240 feeding largely prevented muscle cell death caused by expression of VCP RH or AE  . It is interesting to note that in the VCP disease mutants feeding groups  , mitochondria remained somewhat smaller as compared to wildtype in Figure 7B . Elongated mitochondria , such as those observed in the wildtype and VCP WT feeding groups  , were never observed in the VCP RH and VCP AE groups even though all were fed the same concentration of inhibitors . Finally , we note that VCP inhibitor feeding also resulted in significant rescue of a number of other phenotypes in VCP RH and AE expressing flies , including those associated with p62 , ubiquitin and TDP43  . Together , these observations suggest that VCP disease mutants are hyperactive in multiple aspects , and that disease phenotypes can be suppressed by inhibition of VCP ATPase activity . VCP inhibitors block mitochondrial defects , muscle tissue damage and muscle cell death in VCP disease mutant flies . Expression of VCP RH and AE leads to muscle cell death by 6 days after eclosion , as visualized through loss of MitoGFP and TUNEL positive signal in nuclei . 5% of VCP RH and 4 . 6% of VCP AE flies are TUNEL negative . 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 feeding since first instar larvae till 6 days after eclosion significantly blocks the muscle cell death , with 64 . 0%  of VCP RH , and 80 . 1%  of VCP AE muscles TUNEL negative . Toluidine Blue staining shows that 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 feeding significantly rescue the disrupted muscle structure in VCP RH and AE flies . EM shows that 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 feeding significantly rescue the broken myofibril structure and small mitochondria with broken cristae phenotypes in VCP RH and AE flies . In 6-day-old flies , 30 µM NMS-873  or ML240  treatments result in a significant decrease in Ref  P/p62  and ubiquitin  aggregates in VCP RH and AE expressing flies; TDP43 mislocalization  is partially rescued as the large sarcoplasmic signal decreases , but no nuclear signal is observed  . VCP inhibitor feeding does not affect muscle viability and tissue integrity in 6-day-old flies . TUNEL/MitoGFP assay shows that feeding of 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 does not cause muscle cell death in WT  and VCP WT flies  . Toluidine Blue assay shows that feeding of 30 µM NMS-873 or ML240 does not disrupt muscle integrity in WT  and VCP WT flies  . 020 The above data demonstrated a decrease in Mfn 1 and 2 levels , mitochondrial fusion defects and impaired mitochondrial respiratory function in IBMPFD patient cells . In patient cells , a high concentration of ML240  or NMS-873  led to cell death , and NMS-873 directly inhibits mitochondrial respiration  . As shown in Figure 9A , immortalized IBMPFD patient fibroblasts have decreased Mfn 1 levels , and these are increased by treatment with 250 nM ML240 for 6 hr . Overall mitochondrial morphology of IBMPFD fibroblasts does not change in response to inhibitor treatment  . However , in a more sensitive assay in which rates of fusion are measured directly , mitochondrial fusion defects in IBMPFD patient fibroblasts were significantly rescued after 6 hr of treatment with 250 nM ML240  . Together , these data strongly support the effects of VCP inhibitors as potential therapeutic tools for IBMPFD disease . VCP inhibitor treatment significantly suppresses mitochondrial respiratory chain and fusion defects in VCPR155H/+ IBMPFD patient fibroblasts . After treatment of 250 nM ML240 for 6 hr , Mfn 1 level of VCPR155H/+ IBMPFD patient fibroblasts is elevated from 0 . After treatment with 250 nM ML240 for 6 hr , the mitochondria fusion assay shows that the decreased mitochondrial fusion observed in IBMPFD patient’s fibroblasts is significantly reversed  . 50 nM and 100 nM ML240 treatment for 4 days significantly increases basal  and maximal oxygen consumption rate  in the IBMPFD patient fibroblasts harboring VCPR155H/+ mutation . ML240 and NMS-873 treatments do not significantly change the mitochondrial morphology in IBMPFD patients . IBMPFD patient’s fibroblasts harboring VCPR155H/+ mutation do not show a significant mitochondrial morphological difference  . Treatment of these cells with 100nM ML240 treatment for 4 days  or 10 nM NMS-873 treatment for 6 days  also does not result in a change in mitochondrial morphology  . Missense mutations of VCP lead to the autosomal dominant disease IBMPFD . Moreover , the molecular mechanisms by which VCP mutations alter mitochondrial function are unclear . Here , we have investigated the endogenous function of VCP , cellular effects of expression of VCP disease mutants , and the ability of VCP inhibitors to suppress VCP disease pathology in Drosophila and patient fibroblasts . In summary , we have made the following findings: Endogenous VCP regulates mitochondrial fusion  . Loss of VCP function leads to increased Mfn levels and increased mitochondrial size in multiple tissues . Conversely , VCP overexpression results in reduced Mfn levels and decreased mitochondrial size . VCP physically interacts with Mfn via domains that are also used to bind its substrates in other contexts . Thus , it is likely that Mfn is an endogenous VCP substrate . Here we provide the first in vivo evidence in muscle , the major disease tissue in IBMPFD , that Mfn is a specific endogenous target of VCP . Regulation of endogenous Mfn by VCP is unexpected , given that VCP is an abundant protein implicated in multiple cellular processes , but has not been shown to localize to mitochondria that are not depolarized by CCCP . We show that VCP-dependent removal of Mfn does not require Parkin or Mul1 , E3 ligases known to ubiquitinate Mfn . How VCP brings about Parkin and Mul1-independent removal of Mfn requires further investigation . Proposed mechanisms of VCP disease mutants mediated mitochondrial defects and potential therapeutic role of VCP inhibitors . Under physiological conditions , VCP , independent of PINK1/parkin and Mul1 , negatively regulates Mfn protein levels , which are critical for the proper balance of mitochondrial fusion and fission . In the IBMPFD disease , the enhanced ATPase activity of a VCP disease mutant protein results in excessive loss of Mfn and mitochondrial fusion , leading to mitochondrial fusion defects . Besides the mitochondrial defects , VCP disease mutants also generate pathology including adult muscle tissue damage and muscle cell death . VCP ATPase inhibitors robustly relieve the pathology caused by VCP disease mutants associated with hyperactive VCP activity while leaving normal VCP-dependent functions intact . We generated an IBMPFD disease model in adult Drosophila muscle , and used this system to monitor tissue pathology , and investigate the molecular mechanisms by which VCP disease mutants function . We show that compared to VCP WT , expression of VCP disease mutants results in tissue damage , mitochondrial fusion defects and decreased levels of Mfn  . These phenotypes are opposite to those associated with decreased levels of VCP , or expression of an ATPase defective mutant version of VCP . Expression of VCP disease mutants , but not a VCP ATPase defective mutant or VCP RNAi , also suppresses the mitochondrial defects mediated by accumulation of Mfn in PINK1 null , parkin null , and parkin mul1 double null mutants . Taken together , these results suggest that VCP disease mutants do not function as loss-of-function or dominant negative mutants , but rather as dominant activated mutants in regulating Mfn levels and bringing about mitochondrial fusion defects . This conclusion is further supported by our findings that mitochondrial fusion and Mfn levels are also decreased in VCP disease mutant fibroblasts . Our finding that VCP overexpression suppresses a parkin null mutant in addition to a PINK1 null stands in contrast to what was reported in Kim et al . , who proposed that VCP-dependent degradation of Mfn required recruitment by Parkin . In addition , we also find that VCP overexpression suppresses phenotypes due to double mutants of parkin and mul1 , which acts in a parallel pathway to degrade Mfn  . Together , these observations show that VCP-dependent regulation of Mfn does not require PINK1 or parkin . The VCP-dependent degradation of Mfn we observe is also specific and unlikely to be mediated through a more general process such as mitophagy , as levels of several other mitochondrial proteins are not altered by VCP overexpression . However , these results do not exclude models in which Parkin activation further promotes VCP-dependent Mfn degradation , which may or may not involve mitophagy , under some conditions . Regarding the mechanisms of VCP disease mutant action , in vitro biochemistry studies suggest that they have increased ATPase activities , thus favoring a dominant active model  . In addition , in vivo data from Drosophila shows that eye phenotypes caused by VCP disease mutant expression can be alleviated through loss of one copy of wildtype VCP . This also is consistent with models in which VCP mutants have increased activity  . In contrast , in cell culture studies Bartolome , et al showed that VCP disease mutant expression led to mitochondria respiratory chain defects , as did VCP RNAi  ; Ritz , et al showed that VCP disease mutant expression impaired endocytosis to the same extent as that of VCP ATPase defective mutants  . While the above studies can be interpreted as showing that VCP disease mutants function as loss-of-function or dominant negative mutants , these results do not rule out the possibility that disease mutants are hyperactive alleles . For example , an alternative interpretation of the impairment of respiratory chain function observed following VCP disease mutant expression or following VCP RNAi is that either an increase or a decrease in the levels of VCP activity leads to mitochondrial defects , which is what we observed in this study . Our findings that VCP disease mutants are hyperactive provide important therapeutic implications . Indeed , we find VCP inhibitors potently rescue multiple VCP disease phenotypes in flies and patient cells  . Of course , in order for VCP inhibitors to be useful as therapeutics , it will be necessary to inhibit mutant forms of VCP to an extent sufficient to suppress disease without bringing about a deleterious decrease in the activity of wildtype VCP . Our observation that Drosophila fed inhibitors are suppressed with respect to VCP disease phenotypes , but otherwise develop normally , suggests that this therapeutic goal may be possible . Finally , VCP disease mutants are associated with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  , and hereditary spastic paraplegia  and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease  . Our findings suggest possible therapeutic values of VCP inhibitors for these diseases . Full length VCP  , and truncated VCP cDNAs ∆N-VCP  , ∆N + D1-VCP  and ∆D2-VCP  were amplified from VCP cDNA derived from pUASt-VCP WT , a gift from Dr . To generate pUASt-Mfn-3Flag , Mfn cDNA was obtained from an EST clone  , and subcloned into pUASt with the 3Flag tag . To generate VCP RNAi 2 , microRNA precursors targeting the coding region of VCP transcripts were cloned into the pUASt vector . UASt-VCP WT , VCP RH , AE and E2Q lines were gifts from Dr . IFM-Gal4 , UAS-Mfn RNAi , pCasper-DRP1-HA , PINK15 , parkin25 , dpk21 , parkin25mulA6 were described previously  . VCP RNAi line1 flies were obtained from the Vienna Drosophila RNAi Center  . VCP RNAi 2 was generated in the lab  . The pCasper-Mfn-HA flies  were a kind gift from Dr . The pCasper-Mfn-eGFP construct was a kind gift from Dr . Flies carrying pCasper-Mfn-eGFP and pUASt-VCP RNAi two constructs were created through injection in a w1118 genetic background  . NLS , neoFRT42D or pCasper-Mfn-eGFP / hsFLP22; vcpK15502 , neoFRT42D / Ubi-mRFP . Mfn dsDNA-F: TGA GCA AAT ACC CCC AAA AG; Mfn dsDNA-R: GAT CTG GAG CGG TGA TTT GT . Primary antibodies used include: Anti-HA mouse monoclonal antibody  , Anti-Myc mouse monoclonal antibody  , Anti-Flag rabbit polyclonal antibody  , Anti-GFP rabbit polyclonal antibody  , Anti-Actin rabbit polyclonal antibody  , Anti-Tubulin mouse monoclonal antibody  , Anti-Porin mouse monoclonal antibody  , Anti-VCP rabbit monoclonal antibody  , Anti-Human Mfn 1 and 2 mouse monoclonal antibody  , Anti-MnSOD rabbit polyclonal antibody  and Anti-NDUSF3 mouse monoclonal antibody  . Anti-Drosophila Mfn Rabbit polyclonal antibody  was a gift from Dr . The mitochondrial fusion assay was performed using photoactivatable mitoGFP  localized to the mitochondrial matrix as previously described  . "
"Volatile 3M3SH is produced in the underarm as a result of specific microbial activity , which act on the odourless dipeptide-containing malodour precursor molecule , S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH , secreted in the axilla  during colonisation . The mechanism by which these bacteria recognise S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH and produce body odour is still poorly understood . Here we report the structural and biochemical basis of bacterial transport of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH by Staphylococcus hominis , which is converted to the sulphurous thioalcohol component 3M3SH in the bacterial cytoplasm , before being released into the environment . Knowledge of the molecular basis of precursor transport , essential for body odour formation , provides a novel opportunity to design specific inhibitors of malodour production in humans . In humans , the link between the axillary apocrine gland , underarm bacteria and body odour  , was first recognised over 50 years ago  and early culture-based studies on this relationship found the axillary microbiota to be dominated by Staphylococcus , Corynebacterium and Propionibacterium species , with the Corynebacteria in particular correlating with malodour intensity  . Various molecules produced in the axilla have been linked to malodour , including 16-androstene steroids  and short-chain  volatile fatty acids  produced by axillary bacteria via several metabolic routes  . Thioalcohols are known to be released as a peptide-conjugated precursor from the apocrine gland , which secretes directly into the hair follicle  . The biosynthetic origin of the thioalcohol precursors is currently poorly understood , but they are thought to be secreted into the axilla via the ABC transporter ABCC11 as odourless glutathione conjugates  . The glutathione conjugated form  has never been detected in axillary sweat; however , the L-cysteinylglycine dipeptide conjugated form , S--L-cysteinylglycine   , is readily detectable  and recently a γ-glutamyl transferase  has been demonstrated to localise to the apocrine sweat gland and convert SG-3M3SH to S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH   . We and others have demonstrated that S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH can be taken up and metabolised by a highly limited range of staphylococcal species present in the axilla , namely Staphylococcus hominis , Staphylococcus haemolyticus and Staphylocooccus lugdunensis , to liberate 3M3SH , that subsequently exits the cell through an undefined mechanism  . hominis and body odour production has recently been established using culture-independent taxonomic studies of the axillary microbiota  , confirming the biological significance of this low-abundance species within the axilla in BO production in humans . However , the mechanism by which the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH precursor molecule is taken up into S . hominis and related thioalcohol producers is currently unknown , hampering efforts to identify novel mechanisms to disrupt this process and control odour production in humans . Here we identify the biochemical and structural basis for the recognition and specific transport of the malodour precursor peptide , S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH , into S . We first show that S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is actively taken up by S . hominis through a specific secondary active transporter , STAH0001_1446  , a member of the proton coupled oligopeptide transporter  family  . Through a combination of structural , biochemical and cell based assays we reveal how this peptide transporter is able to recognise a thioalcohol-conjugated peptide and further , show that transport is coupled to the inwardly directed proton electrochemical gradient . Our results suggest that SH1446 is a clear target for inhibitor design to prevent malodour production , thus providing further molecular insights into the role of the skin microbiota in human scent generation . To elucidate how thiol-conjugated dipeptides are transported by bacteria , we first examined the model organism Escherichia coli , which is able to recognise and metabolise the dipeptide version of the non-physiological malodour precursor S-benzyl-L-cysteine , namely , S-benzyl-L-cysteinylglycine  . coli were indeed able to remove S-benzyl-L-cysteinylglycine from solution and break it down to release the thiol active product , benzyl mercaptan  . Following transport into the cell , the dipeptide must be cleaved to release the benzyl mercaptan , most likely through a cysteine-S-conjugate β-lyase-type activity , for which a number have been described in E . coli takes up the S-benzyl-L-cysteinylglycine , whereupon a host dipeptidase cleaves the glycine residue prior to cleavage of the S-benzyl-cysteine by TnaA to release the benzyl mercaptan . We hypothesised that the dipeptide moiety might direct the molecule through a peptide transporter . coli the main peptide systems are relatively well characterised , the two main transport systems belong to the ATP binding cassette  family and the proton dependent oligopeptide transporter  family  . coli Opp and Dpp ABC transporters have been extensively studied in E . coli BW25113 strain with non-functional Opp and Dpp system  , was used to assess the role of these transporters in the production of benzyl mercaptan . Surprisingly , benzyl mercaptan production was similar to the wild-type strain , suggesting that neither ABC transporter was important for Cys-Gly-conjugate transport  . Having ruled out transport via the ABC peptide transporters , we then broadened our search to include additional peptide transporters that have been described in E . These were the four members of the proton dependent oligopeptide transporter , or POT family , encoded by dtpA-D , that have poorly defined physiological roles during growth on peptides  , the CstA protein , orthologues of which have been demonstrated to be peptide transporters  and the Sap system , which is implicated in uptake of cationic antimicrobial peptides  . These data suggest that transporters belonging to the POT family are most likely responsible for Cys-Gly-conjugate transport , revealing a new biological role for bacterial POT transporters in the uptake of Cys-Gly-  conjugates . coli has the ability to transport and cleave a Cys-Gly-  conjugated substrate , we reasoned that overexpression of a POT transporter might confer the ability to recognise the physiological malodour precursor S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH . The four dtp genes were cloned into a pBAD vector commonly used for overexpression of membrane transporters  and transformed into the wild-type E . The ability of the resulting strains to convert S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH to 3M3SH was subsequently measured  . Consistent with the reduction in benzyl mercaptan production reported in Figure 2A , the dtpB gene alone was able to confer a malodour production  phenotype to E . The same pattern was observed with S-benzyl-Cys-Gly as a substrate  , suggesting that DtpB has a unique ability to transport these unusual conjugated peptides . The molecular basis for S-Cys-Gly-3M3H transport into malodour producing staphylococci is unknown , and the genetic intractability of these poorly studied coagulase negative Staphylococcal species makes it difficult to study using genetic approaches . coli POT family peptide transporters can transport S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH , we examined the genome of S . hominis contains only a single POT family member DtpT  , orthologues of which were seen in all sequenced staphylococci  . The POT peptide systems remain largely uncharacterised in staphyoloccci , although in the well-studied pathogen S . aureus , the single POT transporter encoded by dtpT is the sole route for dipeptide uptake in this species  . haemolyticus , two known thioalcohol producers , and which is genetically linked to genes involved in peptide and amino acid metabolism  . When levels of 3M3SH production were measured in these strains , uptake was only enhanced by the presence of SH1446 , with SH0415 having little effect on 3M3SH activity  . In contrast , with S-benzyl-cysteinlyglycine as a substrate , there was no increase in production of benzyl mercaptan with SH1446 but a significant increase was observed with SH0415  . Together these data strongly support the conclusion that the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH transporter in S . hominis is the POT transporter STAH0001_1446  . To further demonstrate the importance of SH1446 in the physiological transport of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH we used a biochemical approach to examine whether peptides could inhibit 3M3SH production by competing with S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH uptake . coli system where 3M3SH production is seen when SH1446 is expressed in trans and we observed clear inhibition of 3M3SH production with both di- and tri-Ala peptides  but not with L-Ala alone nor tetra-Ala . The purified TnaA enzyme that cleaves Cys-3M3SH was not inhibited by any of these peptides  , supporting the hypothesis that the whole cell inhibition is due to inhibition of peptide transport . Similarly , we measured the ability of the same peptides to inhibit 3M3SH production directly in S . hominis wild-type , however this affect is due to the acidic pH that was required to dissolve the peptide which appears to inhibit metabolism in S . POT transporters belong to the Major Facilitator Superfamily  and use an inwardly directed proton electrochemical gradient to drive the concentrative uptake of di- and tri-peptides across the cell membrane for metabolic assimilation  . To establish SH1446 as the protein responsible for S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH recognition and transport , the gene was cloned and overexpressed in E . Transport was studied using a previously employed pyranine based reporter assay , which measures transport via changes to the internal pH of the liposomes   . Acidification of the lumen of the liposome was observed in the presence of a membrane potential  , and addition of external di- or tri-peptide substrate , demonstrating that PepTSh is a proton coupled peptide transporter . Importantly we also observed acidification in the presence of the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH precursor peptide , confirming our earlier identification of PepTSh as the transporter for this molecule in S . To understand the recognition of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH compared to natural peptides , we determined IC50 values using competition with 3H-di-alanine . The IC50 value for tri-alanine , di-alanine and Cys-Gly were 23 . 2 μM , respectively  , indicating that PepTSh is able to recognise tri-Ala more favourably than di-Ala . However , for S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH the IC50 value was 362 ± 21 . 8 μM , three-fold higher than the Cys-Gly peptide . Our data therefore show that while PepTSh can transport the modified peptide , the addition of the thioalcohol group on the cysteine side chain has substantially impaired the recognition and transport versus natural peptides . 5 Å resolution , bound to S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH using the in meso crystallisation method  . PepTSh was crystallised in an inward open state , observed previously for other members of the POT family  , wherein the extracellular gate , consisting of helices H1-2 and H7-8 from the N- and C-terminal bundles respectively , is closed and the intracellular gate , consisting of helices H4-5 and H10-11 is open . Similar to other bacterial POT family members , PepTSh contains two additional helices inserted between the N- and C-terminal bundles , termed HA and HB  . Unlike previous POT structures however , PepTSh also contains a well-structured β-hairpin motif between helices H7 and H8 on the extracellular side of the membrane , extending out in line with the lipid head groups . Interestingly we observed a number of monoolein lipid molecules that cluster around both the β- hairpin and the cavity created between helices HA and HB with the transporter domain . The role of helices HA and HB in prokaryotic POT family transporters still remains unclear . However , the observation of lipid molecules bound between these helices and the transport domain suggests a possible role in stabilising these transporters in the membrane , which may be an adaption specific to prokaryotic members of the POT family  . Following extensive screening and co-crystallisation we observed clear mFo-DFc difference electron density for the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH ligand in the peptide binding site  . The Cys-Gly part of the precursor is positioned such that the carboxy termini of the peptide faces towards the intracellular side of the binding site . The carbonyl group of the CG peptide also makes a hydrogen bond to this water molecule , creating a well-coordinated interaction network between the peptide and Asn347  . In contrast , the thioalcohol moiety points towards the extracellular gate , with the sulphur atom sitting close to Gln310 on H7 , whereas the alcohol group extends towards helix H8 making interactions with backbone carbonyl and amide groups of Phe343 and Asn347 , respectively . This long pocket  extends from the central peptide binding site into the C-terminal bundle of the transporter and is both hydrophobic and polar in character . Previously , we showed that a related POT family transporter , PepTSt , is able to bind peptides in different orientations in the binding site , with a di-peptide adopting a horizontal position and a tri-peptide a vertical one  and suggested this flexibility may be responsible for the accomodation of larger peptide ligands  . Here we see that the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH peptide adopts a more vertical orientation , similar to the tri-alanine position in PepTSt . A structural overlay of the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH peptide shows that it sits much further up in the binding site compared to the natural peptides captured in PepTSt  , most likely as a result of the requirement to accommodate the thioalcohol group in the extended pocket . In PepTSt , the amino terminal group of the di-peptide directly interacts with helix H8 and H10 , whereas the tri-peptide makes a much weaker interaction through a carbonyl group . The role of water in mediating interactions between peptides and their binding sites has been previously observed in the ABC transporter binding domains  , albeit for side chain independent binding . A similar mechanism may be employed by PepTSh to facilitate transport of modified peptides by replacing direct interactions between the peptide and the transporter when these are sterically restricted , as we observe with S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH . The interaction of the amino termini of peptides with both the mammalian and bacterial POT family transporters has been identified as facilitating high affinity binding  . The reduced IC50 value for the modified peptide in PepTSh  , may therefore be a combination of steric restraints resulting in the accommodation of the extended side chain group , and the subsequent knock on effects on the position of the interactions between the amino and carboxy groups with conserved side chains in the binding site . S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is the first human derived peptide with a modified side chain to be captured in a POT family transporter , and contains biochemical features similar to physiological peptides  , but also incorporates the non-peptide thioalcohol group  . We therefore wished to explore whether S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is recognised using a similar mechanism to physiological peptides . Several mutations in the binding site that have previously been shown to play an important role in peptide recognition within the bacterial POT family were therefore generated  . Tyrosine 41 forms part of a conserved E33xxERFxYY41 motif on TM1  , which plays a role in proton coupling and influences peptide uptake in several POT family members  . In PepTSh Tyr41 hydrogen bonds with the carboxyl terminus of the terminal glycine amino acid in S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH  . A similar negative effect on transport was observed in the related POT family transporter PepTSt , from Streptococcus thermophilus  , suggesting a common role for the conserved tyrosine in peptide recognition within the POT family . We then used the same variants in our whole cell assay for 3M3SH production . We interpret this result to indicate that recognition of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is less dependent on this residue than di-Ala . We next wanted to test the role of other residues we observed sitting close to the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH ligand . The equivalent residues in homologous POT family transporters have been implicated in both peptide recognition  and gating  , and in the case of Glu418 may facilitate the coupling between peptide recognition , proton movement and transport  . Although a Glu418Ala variant had no activity in our assays , consistent with its proposed role in coordinating the intracellular gate  , we observed reduced uptake of di-Ala in the Asn347Ala variant  . Interestingly , this reduction was far more severe in the in vivo assay  , indicating that this interaction is more important for transport of the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH peptide than di-Ala . This may reflect the requirement of Asn347 to coordinate the water molecule linking the peptide to the intracellular gate side chain Glu418 , which in the case of the di-peptide may interact directly as in PepTSt , lessening the requirement for the Asn347 interaction . To test the importance of this pocket on S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH transport , we made a Tyr411Trp variant , which would block the cavity . The same mutation resulted in a similar large decrease in the biotransformation of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH , while a Tyr411Ala mutation had wild-type biotransformation rates  . It is clear that the hydrophobic pocket in PepTSh plays an important role in facilitating the recognition of the thioalcohol group in the binding pocket and , as discussed below , is a potential site for inhibitor design . Taken together the current data lend further support to our model of an adaptable binding site within the POT family that can accommodate chemically diverse peptides and their derivatives through the use of both side chain and water mediated interactions with conserved residues and different specificity pockets to accommodate the different chemical side chains . The thioalcohol 3M3SH , a major component of body odour , is produced in the human axilla as a glutathione-conjugated precursor and is processed to a unique dipeptide structure  . heamolyticus are able to produce 3M3SH prompted the search for the molecular basis for this process  . While S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is a highly modified and uniquely human dipeptide , we reasoned that this moiety might dictate the uptake mechanism into malodour producing bacteria and here we identify a peptide transporter , PepTSh  , from the POT family of secondary active transporters as being responsible for this process . Each of these strains have a POT family transporter that is closely related to PepTSh  , and we would predict they will also be able to uptake S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH . hominis dictated that we use a biochemical approach to demonstrate that SH1446 is likely the sole route of uptake of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH . First , this staphylococci has a similar repertoire of peptide transporters in S . aureus , in that it has a single POT transporter and one Opp ABC transporter , and previous work in S . aureus has demonstrated that the POT transporter , DtpT , is essential for growth on dipeptides and some tripeptides , while the ABC transporter  has a function in transporting longer oligopeptides  . The use of L-Ala containing peptides as inhibitors in this study demonstrates an inhibitory effect on 3M3SH production that is consistent with the properties of a POT family transporter . Several attempts were made to genetically disrupt SH1446 in S . The specific role for POT transporters in the transport of these unusually modified dipeptides is supported from the inability of the E . coli ABC transporters for oligopeptides and dipeptides , Opp and Dpp , to recognise and transport S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH . Given that S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is effectively a dipeptide with a highly extended R-group on the first amino acid , it is noteworthy that only the promiscuous nature of the POT binding site is able to recognise this ligand . For OppA and DppA , the substrate binding proteins that initially recognise peptides transported by the ABC systems , the binding pocket is well defined and makes general main chain-main chain interactions to ensure that the protein can bind peptides in a sequence independent manner  . However , the pocket has evolved to accommodate regular amino acid side chains and the unusually large structure of the thioalcohol attachment would likely be sterically incompatible with recognition by either OppA or DppA . The data presented here further support the idea that POT transporters have an unusually promiscuous binding site that may play an evolutionary advantageous role in accepting modified peptides as substrates . Recently , the human POT family transporters , PepT1 and PepT2 , have gained additional attention due to their role in the absorption and retention of several important classes of drug molecule  , including peptide modified pro-drugs . Similar to S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH , these pro-drugs are drug molecules conjugated to a peptide or amino acid  . Pro-drugs are able to compete with natural peptides for transport via PepT1 and PepT2 , and are therefore actively transported into the body  . The promiscuous nature of the POT family binding site has been shown to derive , in part , from their ability to recognise peptides in different conformations and through the availability of different specificity pockets , which are able to accommodate chemically different classes of peptides  . The observation that water plays a role in facilitating the interaction between the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH peptide and PepTSh may also indicate a broader role for water in facilitating the recognition of xenobiotic peptides . In particular , the observation that water may bridge interactions between the binding site and either the amino or carboxy group of the ligand would greatly increase the number of conformations a peptide could adopt in the transporter and still trigger proton coupled transport . Finally , we can ask the questions , why do these bacteria transport S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH and can this process be inhibited to provide effective malodour control ? The presumed biochemical pathway for breakdown of the S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH is outlined in Figure 6 . The firststep is the likely removal of the glycine by a dipeptidase and then the lyase reaction that cleaves the carbon-sulphur bond to release pyruvate and ammonia in addition to 3M3SH . The route of export of 3M3SH is unknown , but currently assumed to be diffusion across the bacterial inner membrane . The bacterium will gain a nutritional benefit from the catabolism of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH via the release of both nitrogen and carbon as glycine , pyruvate and ammonia  , which may have been the evolutionary trigger for the adaptation to catabolise this chemical . Asian individuals with single nucleotide polymorphisms  in ABCC11 , the transporters involved in the secretion of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH  have been studied  . The discovery of the transporter and molecular understanding of the mode of S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH binding now suggests a specific route to develop inhibitors of malodour production by directly inhibiting the transporter SH1446  . coli POT transporters were cloned into pBADcLIC2005 vector under the control of arabinose . In silico analysis of the available Staphylococcus hominis SK1119 genome identified STAH0001_1446  as a POT family member which orthologues present in all sequenced staphylococci and a MFS transporter STAH0001_0415  present in only S . SH0415 and SH1446 genes were amplified from S . To quantify free 3M3SH , a 75 µl volume from each reaction  was taken at the appropriate time point and centrifuged at 13 , 000 rpm for 2 min . hominis SH1446 was cloned into a C-terminal octa histidine GFP fusion vector   and subsequently transformed into Escherichia coli C43  cells  . The bound GFP-SH1446 fusion protein was eluted with wash buffer containing 250 mM imidazole . 22 μm filter  and passed through a Ni-NTA 5 mL HisTrap column  to remove uncleaved GFP-SH1446 protein and TEV protease . Fractions containing purified SH1446 protein were pooled and concentrated to a final concentration of 15–20 mg . Crystals of SH1446 were obtained in-meso phase . SH1446 S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH complex was crystallised in precipitant solution containing 26–27%  PEG 200 , 220 mM  2HPO4 , 110 mM sodium citrate  and 5 mM S-Cys-Gly-3M3SH  and left overnight at 4°C , prior to crystallisation . The ligand bound complex was solved by molecular replacement in PHASER  using a modified search model of the bacterial peptide transporter from Streptococcus thermophilus , PepTSt  , PDB: 4D2B . Additional difference density was observed in the binding site and matched the stereo chemical properties and size of S-CG3M3SH . Purified SH1446 was detergent exchanged into n-Decyl-β-D-maltopyranoside  using a size exclusion column  pre-equilibrated with 20 mM Tris-HCl  , 150 mM NaCl , and 0 . For the assay , proteoliposomes were diluted in external buffer  supplemented with 50 μM di-alanine peptide containing trace amounts of tritiated 3H-di-alanine  and the competing substrate at increasing concentrations as indicated . The amount of peptide transported into the liposomes was calculated based on the specific activity for each peptide as detailed by the manufacturer and counting efficiency for the radioisotope in Ultima Gold  counted in a Wallac scintillation counter  . "
"Monocytes are phagocytic effector cells in the blood and precursors of resident and inflammatory tissue macrophages . The aim of the current study was to analyse and compare their contribution to innate immune surveillance of the lung in the steady state with macrophage and dendritic cells  . ECFP and EGFP transgenic reporters based upon Csf1r and Cx3cr1 distinguish monocytes from resident mononuclear phagocytes . We used these transgenes to study the migratory properties of monocytes and macrophages by functional imaging on explanted lungs . Migratory monocytes were found to be either patrolling within large vessels of the lung or locating at the interface between lung capillaries and alveoli . We conclude that monocytes participate in steady-state surveillance of the lung , in a way that is complementary to resident macrophages and DC , without differentiating into macrophages . The mononuclear phagocytic system  consists of a family of cells—including monocytes , macrophages , and dendritic cells  —that are derived from common committed bone marrow progenitors and perform related functions  . The lung is a mucosal surface of the body , exposed constantly to inhaled particles including pathogens , as well as other potential toxins  . Lung mononuclear phagocytes have been shown to adapt specifically to the lung environment , and contribute to lung homeostasis , scavenging , and immune surveillance  . Monocytes were originally considered to be circulating precursors of macrophages , participating in renewal of tissue-resident macrophages in steady state and recruited in large numbers in response to inflammatory stimuli  . Fate mapping approaches and parabiosis experiments have been used to argue that tissue-resident macrophages such as alveolar macrophages  may be seeded from the yolk sac or foetal liver during embryonic development and can be maintained in the absence of monocyte recruitment  . Beyond this precursor role , monocytes carry out specific effector functions during infection  and may be involved in steady-state tissue surveillance by capturing and transporting antigen from tissue to lymphoid organs  . In the mouse , one subset called classical monocytes , expresses high levels of both Ly6C and the chemokine receptor CCR2 but a low level of the fractalkine  receptor CX3CR1 , while the second , the so-called non-classical monocytes , lacks Ly6C but expresses a high level of CX3CR1  . A Csf1r-EGFP reporter gene serves as a definitive marker of MPS cells  , while a Cx3cr1-EGFP reporter labels the non-classical monocytes as well as subsets of tissue macrophages , including microglia , as well as a subset of natural killer  lymphocytes  . The Itgax-YFP transgenic mouse was considered to provide a marker for classical ‘dendritic cells’  and has been used to image so-called interstitial DC in the lung  . However , this reporter is rather uniformly expressed in tissue macrophages associated with mucosa and in the lung provides a generic MPS marker  . This deleted promoter was used to construct an amplified binary transgene in which Csf1r promoter elements direct the expression of gal4-VP16 , which in turn activates expression of a UAS-ECFP transgene . All blood monocytes in these MacBlue mice are strongly ECFP+ , whereas most tissue macrophages do not express the reporter protein  . In the current study , we combined the myeloid-specific fluorescent reporters from MacBlue mice with either Cx3cr1gfp/+ or Itgax-YFP transgenic mice to support in situ imaging of lung monocyte cell trafficking and compare their phagocytic activity with that of resident mononuclear phagocytes . The MacBlue binary transgene  provides a unique marker of blood monocytes  . To confirm this restricted expression in the lung , we generated MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ double transgenic mice . Two-photon laser scanning microscopy 3D-reconstruction of fresh explanted lung and histological section of cryo-preserved lungs from these mice identified distinct subsets with distinct morphologies and distributions within the organ  . Stellar EGFP+ECFPneg cells were seen in the collagen membrane surrounding the lung pleura  , deeper in the lung parenchyma with small round shapes or stellar shapes  , and along the basal membranes of bronchial airways  . The luminal side of airways and alveoli contained large round ECFP+ cells , likely AM  . Smaller amoeboid-like ECFP+ cells were located in the interstitial space of the lung parenchyma  . In overview , the pattern was consistent with previous evidence that the MacBlue ECFP transgene was expressed only in AM and monocyte-like cells , whereas most interstitial CX3CR1-EGFP expressing cells lacked expression . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ transgenic mouse discriminates lung mononuclear phagocyte subsets with specific tissue localization . Front and side views of two-photon laser scanning microscopy  3D reconstruction from pleura to alveolar space of explanted lung from a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse lung cryo-section showing lung pleura and parenchyma . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse lung cryo-section showing longitudinal view of bronchial airway . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse lung cryo-section showing interstitial space near bronchial airways and alveoli . 003 To establish the relationship between the cells that could be imaged in situ and their cellular phenotypes in MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice , we applied a panel of phenotypic markers including CD11b , CD115 , Ly6C , Ly6G , F4/80 , CD64 , CD11c , IAb , CD62L , NK1 . 1 , and SiglecF to discriminate four different subsets of the lung based on their EGFP/ECFP signature in the double transgenic line  and compared them to blood populations  . The lungs contained two ECFPbright populations , either EGFPbright or EGFPdim  resembling those observed in the blood  . The CX3CR1-EGFPlow population was Ly6ChighCD11b+Ly6GnegF4/80intNK1 . 1negCD64+  in both the blood and the lungs  , consistent with identity as ‘classical’ Ly6Chigh monocytes  . The CX3CR1-EGFPhigh population was Ly6ClowCD11b+Ly6GnegF4/80intNK1 . 1negCD64+CD11c+ phenotype  , consistent with the phenotype of the Ly6Clow monocyte subset   . For both subsets , the expression of CD115 and CD62L was down modulated in the lung cells compared to their circulating counterparts . Downregulation of surface CSF1R  could reflect the down-modulation of the surface receptor both by its ligand and by the many inflammatory stimuli present in the lung  . These cells were larger than monocytes and CD11b+Ly6CnegLy6GnegF4/80highNK1 . ECFP and EGFP expression in  the lungs and  the blood of MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice . Colour-coded gating identifies the main subsets according to EGFP/ECFP signature . Dot plots showing spectral overlap of EGFP and ECFP fluorescence are depicted using separated MacBlue and Cx3cr1gfp/+ transgenic mice . For lungs , lower grey histograms present the FMO signal gated on alveolar macrophages   . For the blood , the cyan subset expressing a low level of ECFP represents blood neutrophils . Dot plots show the intensity and the frequency of ECFP expression on Ly6G+ gated cells in the lungs . 005TissueLungBloodLungBloodLungBloodLungCD11b++++++++++/+++/++CD115−++−++−/−+/−−Ly6C+++++/−+/−+/++/+−Ly6G−−−−−−−F4/80++++++/−+/−++CD64++++++/−+/−++CD11c−−+++/−+/−++IAb+/−+/−+/−+/−+/−−/−−CD62L+++−−−/++/+−NK1 . 1−−−−−/++−/++−SiglecF−−−−−/−−/−++ConclusionLy6Chigh MoLy6Clow MoCx3cr1+ MP/NKAMThe relative expression of the markers for each subset in the blood and the lungs are compared and specific subsets defined according to the phenotype . A subset of these cells in the lung labelled with NK1 . 1 , but many were CD64+F4/80+  interstitial and pleural macrophages , as observed on histological reconstruction  . Note that the ECFP transgene is expressed at low but detectable levels on granulocytes in the blood  ; these cells were positive for Ly6G  . In summary , the binary expression of the two transgenic reporters in MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice permits the identification of monocytes in tissues , and their distinction from other mononuclear phagocyte subsets as well as from NK cells . In order to confirm the monocyte origin of the ECFP+EGFPlow/high -Ly6Chigh and -Ly6Clow monocytes , we generated parabionts of the double transgenic MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ with C57Bl6 mice and analysed the reconstitution after 1 month of parabiosis . In the lung , donor-derived ECFP cells displayed Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocyte phenotypes  , were small in size , with ameboid-like morphologies , and were all located in the interalveolar space  . The only cells expressing EGFP but not ECFP , were NK cells derived from the donor  . Interstitial ECFP+ cells are monocyte-derived . Dot plot shows the ECFP/EGFP chimerism in the blood and the lungs of C57Bl6 host parabiont with MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . Histograms represent the expression of monocyte markers on the CX3CR1low  and CX3CR1high cells  . Pictures compare different magnifications of lung cryo-section from MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse  with C57Bl6 host parabiont with MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse  . 006 To evaluate the function of chemotactic signals in the lung , we compared the frequency of the different subsets defined above in Ccr2−/− , Cx3cr1−/− , and Ccr2−/−Cx3cr1−/−  mice in the blood and the lung  . Consistent with published studies  , the frequency of circulating Ly6Chigh monocytes was similar in wild-type  and Cx3cr1−/− mice . By contrast , the absence of CX3CR1 did impact on the yield of Ly6Chigh cells in the lung . As expected , this subset was strongly reduced in Ccr2−/− mice and dKO mice in both the blood and the lungs  . Ly6Clow monocyte frequency was similar in Ccr2−/− mice but significantly reduced in Cx3cr1−/− and dKO mice in both the blood and the lungs compared to WT mice  . Together , these results showed that CCR2 and CX3CR1 control the steady-state trafficking and survival of both Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocyte-derived cells in the lungs . CCR2 and CX3CR1 control the accumulation of lung mononuclear phagocytes . Gating strategy defines  Ly6Chigh monocytes ,  Ly6Clow monocytes ,  alveolar macrophages  , and  CX3CR1+ lung macrophages gated on CD45+CD11b+NK1 . Bars represent quantification as a percentage of CD45+ cells of the defined cell subsets from  the blood and  the lungs in Cx3cr1gfp/+Ccr2rfp/+  , Cx3cr1gfp/gfpCcr2rfp/+  , Cx3cr1gfp/+Ccr2rfp/-  , and Cx3cr1gfp/gfpCcr2rfp/rfp  mice . 007 Having demonstrated the utility of the MacBlue marker to define monocyte-derived cells , we performed live imaging on explanted lungs to characterize the behaviour of these cells  . Small interstitial ECFP+ cells  with an amoeboid-like shape displayed a bimodal behaviour: they were either highly motile , going backwards and forwards between the alveoli , or relatively sessile with protrusions extending towards the lumen of the alveoli  . Based upon these distinct behaviours , we defined ‘patrolling’ cells with high velocity  and a low arrest coefficient  and interstitial ECFP+ cells with lower velocity  and a higher arrest coefficient   . Intravenous injection of rhodamine dextran prior to mouse sacrifice permitted , during a short time frame before vascular leakage , to determine that fast moving patrolling ECFP+ cells were located inside large vessels , whereas slow motile ECFP+ cells appeared to be extravascular but in close contact with the vasculature  . The MC of patrolling monocytes was 30-fold higher than the MC of interstitial ECFP+ cells  and a further fourfold higher than the MC of AM   . This higher MC in interstitial ECFP+ monocytes was attributable to the protrusive activity and slow displacement suggesting scanning of the interalveolar space  . Time lapse imaging of explanted non-transgenic lungs from parabiont mice showed similar scanning behaviour  , supporting the monocyte origin of these cells . In overview , while AM survey the luminal side of the alveoli , interstitial monocyte-derived cells survey the lung tissue through either active patrolling in the vasculature or protrusive activity toward the alveolar space . Lung mononuclear phagocytes constitutively survey the entire space of the alveolar areas through distinct migratory patterns . Time series two-photon laser scanning microscopy  pictures with overlaid tracks of cell motility of the alveolar area from explanted lung . Pink , blue , red , and green squares surround alveolar macrophages , patrolling monocytes , interstitial ECFP+ cells , and interstitial EGFP+ cells , respectively . Time series TPLSM pictures show representative protrusive activity  and patrolling  behaviour by interstitial ECFP+ cells . Mean displacement ± SEM as a function of the square root of time for alveolar macrophages   , scanning interstitial ECFP+ cells  , EGFP+ cells   , and patrolling interstitial ECFP+ cells   . Live 3D imaging of mononuclear phagocyte behaviour in the alveolar space of the lung of a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . The ECFP signal is in cyan , the EGFP signal in green , and the SHG signal  indicates interstitial tissue and defines alveoli . Representative behaviour of alveolar macrophages   , patrolling ECFP+ cells  , interstitial ECFP+ cells  , and interstitial EGFP+ cells  are indicated . Migratory behaviour of lung interstitial ECFP+ cells . Live 3D imaging shows interstitial monocyte-derived cells scanning with protrusive activity or patrolling in the steady-state alveolar space of the lung of a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . The ECFP signal is in cyan , the EGFP signal in green , and the SHG signal  indicates interstitial tissue , while white line drawings define the limits of alveoli . Migratory behaviour of ECFP+ cells in lung vasculature . Live 3D imaging shows ECFP+ cells patrolling in the lumen of lung vessels  and interstitial ECFP+ cells in the vicinity of the vasculature . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice were injected with 2 MkDa rhodamine dextran 1 min before sacrifice . Lungs were imaged rapidly before leakage of the dye into the alveoli . The ECFP signal is in cyan , the EGFP signal in green , lung capillaries and vessels are in red , and the SHG signal is in blue . Live high-resolution 3D imaging of alveolar macrophages  in the alveoli of a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . Live 3D imaging shows interstitial monocyte patrolling behaviour  in the steady-state alveolar space of the lung of a C57Bl6 host parabiont with MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse 1 month after parabiosis . Monocyte cell scanning behaviour in host parabiont . Live 3D imaging shows interstitial monocyte protrusive activity  in the steady-state alveolar space of the lung of a C57Bl6 host parabiont with MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse 1 month after parabiosis . 014 In order to determine the molecular mechanism involved in the steady-state lung surveillance , we analysed the behaviour of lung mononuclear phagocytes in MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp mice  . The absence of functional CX3CR1 did not change the arrest coefficient  but did slightly reduce the MC of patrolling cells  . As might be anticipated given their lack of CX3CR1 expression , AM behaviour was also comparable in WT and Cx3cr1−/− mice  . On the other hand , deletion of the CX3CR1 clearly altered the behaviour of the interstitial ECFP+ cells , which showed a greatly increased arrest coefficient and reduced MC  . In the absence of CX3CR1 , the remaining interstitial ECFP+ cells present had greatly reduced protrusive activity , as indicated by increased global ‘sphericity’  and reduced sphericity variation  . Interalveolar space scanning by monocyte-derived cells is CX3CR1 dependent . Time series two-photon laser scanning microscopy  pictures show interstitial ECFP+ cell activity in explanted lungs of MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp mice . Comparative box and whiskers analysis of the arrest coefficient of indicated cell subsets between MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+  and MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp  . Comparison of the mean displacement ± SEM as a function of the square root of time for patrolling interstitial ECFP+ cells  , scanning interstitial ECFP+ cells  , and alveolar macrophages   between MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+  and MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp  . Time series volume rendering image of interstitial ECFP+ cell showing shape modifications . Migratory behaviour of lung interstitial monocyte-derived cells in a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp mouse . Live 3D imaging shows reduced interstitial monocyte-derived cell protrusive activity  in the steady-state alveolar space of the lung of a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp mouse . The ECFP signal is in cyan , the EGFP signal is in green , and the SHG signal  indicates interstitial tissue and defines alveoli . 016 Lung DC defined by CD11c expression have been previously shown to participate in antigen uptake  . CD11c is expressed on all tissue macrophages in the lung , but is absent from monocytes . To compare the roles of these cells in particle clearance , we combined MacBlue with the Itgax-YFP transgene  and again compared the fluorescent signatures of different mononuclear phagocyte populations  . According to previous phenotyping , Ly6Chigh monocytes were CD11b+Ly6G−SiglecF-IAblowCD64lowLy6Chigh , Ly6Clow monocytes were CD11b+Ly6G−SiglecF-IAblowCD64lowLy6Clow , interstitial macrophages were CD11b+Ly6G−SiglecF-IAbhighCD64+ , and AM were CD11blowCD11chighSiglecFhighCD64+ . Based upon published markers  , two sets of classical myeloid DC have been defined: CD11b+ DC that were CD11b+CD11c+Ly6G−SiglecF-IAbhighCD64−CD24+ and CD11b− DC that were CD11b−CD11c+Ly6G−SiglecF-IAbhighCD64−CD24+CD103+  . We determined the mean fluorescence intensity  of EGFP , ECFP , and YFP reporters from the MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ and MacBlue×Itgax-YFP in these subsets  . EGFP and ECFP fluorescent reporter expressions were mainly restricted to lung macrophage and monocyte subsets as previously described  . Although CD11c mRNA and surface protein are expressed widely among tissue macrophages in the lung , YFP expression was mainly restricted to the defined classical DC subsets with a brighter expression for CD11b− DC  . Interestingly , AM only express the MacBlue transgene and despite expression of CD11c protein on their surface , YFP was detectable in only a small subset  . Thus the combination of these different transgenes permits the distinction of lung mononuclear phagocytes and lung DC . AM represented the most abundant mononuclear phagocyte subset of the lung  . Lung monocytes represented the second main mononuclear phagocyte subset and were even more numerous than interstitial macrophages , CD11b+ DC and CD11b−CD103+ DC  . Histological analysis of a lung section of MacBlue×Itgax-YFP showed that YFPbright cells were mainly located along bronchial airways and poorly distributed in the alveolar space in contrast to ECFP+ monocytes and AM  . Interstitial monocyte-derived cells localized in the alveolar space whereas lung dendritic cells preferentially localized near large airways . Dot plots show the gating strategy to define the different lung mononuclear phagocytes and dendritic cells from either MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ or MacBlue×Itgax-YFP mice . Ly6Clow monocytes  ;  Ly6Chigh monocytes  ;  interstitial macrophages  ;  alveolar macrophages   ;  CD11b+ DC  ;  CD11b− DC  ; and  neutrophils  . For CD11b− DC , AM , CD11b+ DC , and interstitial macrophages  , FMO  signals gated on the specific subset were overlaid in black  and grey  . Histogram plots represent the EGFP , ECFP , and YFP fluorescent reporter expression by each defined subset . Absolute number of indicated subset per mg of lung  . Wide field image of MacBlue×Itgax-YFP mouse lung cryo-section showing ECFP+ and YFP+ cell distributions in alveolar space and near bronchial airways . 017 Particle size and the physical properties of inhaled particles are critical in the uptake by lung phagocytes and trafficking to regional lymph nodes  . We inoculated mice with fluorescent beads either by intravenous or airway routes and compared the proportion of phagocytic cells in different lung subsets 4 hr after bead inoculation  . After airway inhalation , AM were the main phagocytic subset  , but particles were also detected among interstitial cells . The numbers of phagocytic Ly6Clow and Ly6Chigh monocytes were significantly higher compared to the number of phagocytic DC after airway inhalation , showing that lung monocytes are the only subsets that effectively capture both blood-derived and airway-derived fluorescent particles  . Lung monocyte-derived cells survey both airways and vascular routes whereas dendritic cells  survey only airways . Representative dot plots showing fluorescent bead uptake by lung mononuclear phagocytes and dendritic cells 4 hr after airway inoculation . Student’s t tests were performed to compare the phagocytic activity of all subsets to the referent population of Ly6Clow monocytes . 018 In order to further discriminate lung monocytes from circulating monocytes , we performed blood/tissue partitioning using in vivo CD45 labelling as reported by others  . Lung mononuclear phagocyte subsets and neutrophils were labelled in different proportions  . Overall , 27% of interstitial macrophages , 12% of CD11b+ DC , and only 1% of CD11b− DC were labelled , suggesting a distinct location of these subsets related to the vasculature  . Up to 90% of Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow lung monocytes were labelled by the anti-CD45 antibody in vivo; however , the MFI was significantly lower compared to that of blood monocytes  . Furthermore , the phenotype of both Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocytes was slightly distinct from their circulating counterparts . Indeed lung monocytes displayed reduced expression of Ly6C , CD62L , and CD115 as previously observed , in addition to a higher level of CD11b , whereas only Ly6Clow monocytes displayed higher CD11c expression  . The same differences were observed in monocytes isolated from lung without enzymatic digestion  . These results suggest that monocytes can be either extravascular but in close vicinity to the vessels or still intravascular and trapped in capillaries with reduced access to the bloodstream and submitted to the lung environment . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice were inoculated intravenously 5 min before sacrifice with a mixture of 10 µm and 0 . 2 µm beads , and lung capillary areas identified by only 0 . In large vessels , ECFP+ cells were mainly round shaped , whereas in the vicinity of capillaries , interstitial ECFP+ cells displayed an elongated or amoeboid-like shape  . Confocal analysis of the microvascular area using CD31 staining showed that interstitial ECFP+ cells locate at the interface between the capillaries and the alveoli either intra- or extravascularly  . To confirm that this positioning allows the sampling of particles inoculated by the airways route , we performed in vivo CD45 staining of monocytes that had captured beads 4 hr after intranasal inoculation  . CD45 in vivo labelling was exactly the same for both Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocytes that had captured the beads compared to non-phagocytic monocytes  . This result confirmed that lung monocytes are strategically positioned at the interface between the bloodstream and airways to survey both compartments . Lung monocyte-derived cells are located at the interface between blood and airways . Representative overlayed dot plots of in vivo CD45 staining gated on blood and lung mononuclear phagocytes and neutrophils  . CD45 staining control from mice not injected with anti-CD45 are shown  . Bars represent CD45 mean fluorescence intensity  after in vivo staining in Ly6Chigh  and Ly6Clow  monocytes from the blood  and the lungs  with or without enzymatic digestion . Bars represent MFI of the indicated markers gated on Ly6Chigh  and Ly6Clow  monocytes from the blood  and the lungs  . MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse lung cryo-section showing ECFP+ cell localisation in distinct vascular areas , according to bead distribution after intravenous injection of a mixture of 10 µm and 0 . Confocal volume rendering reconstitution image of CD31   or isotype staining  showing ECFP+ monocytes  in the vicinity of lung capillaries . Dot plots represent in vivo CD45 staining of Ly6Chigh  and Ly6Clow  monocytes 4 hr after intranasal inoculation of fluorescent beads . CD45 staining control from mice not injected with anti-CD45 is shown  . Bars represent the CD45 MFI gated on phagocytic  and non-phagocytic  monocytes . Confocal 3D reconstruction of lung ECFP+ cells in the lung vasculature . High resolution 3D reconstruction shows lung ECFP+ cell localisation at the interface between lung capillaries and airways . Lung vasculature has been stained with anti-CD31  or isotype control  in a lung cryo-section of a MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mouse . Fluorescent myeloid-specific reporter transgenic mice have been widely used to study the behaviour of myeloid cells in vivo , although no transgenic reporter is restricted to a particular myeloid lineage  . A wide diversity of cell subsets are labelled in the Cx3cr1gfp/+ system , including NK cells , which can be excluded only with a specific γc-deficient background  . The MacBlue binary transgene , based upon a deleted Csf1r promoter , produced a transgenic line in which the reporter gene is extinguished in the majority of mature tissue macrophages and greatly reduced in granulocytes  . Despite the fact that ECFP expression is not directly related to the level of Csf1r mRNA , it provides a unique marker of cells that have recently derived from monocytes . In the current study , we intercrossed Cx3cr1gfp/+ and MacBlue mice to obtain an additional dimension of resolution and specificity . Monocytes were easily distinguishable from other subsets due to their common expression of ECFP . The differential expression of EGFP enabled a further distinction between Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocytes . Although our imaging approach did not allow us to distinguish between the two monocyte subsets , the shape , size , tissue localization , and behaviour of the ECFP+ cells provided a unique opportunity to track lung tissue mononuclear phagocytes and to compare their migratory patterns . The dual reporter also avoids potential artefacts created by the γc-deficient background excluding NK cells which we have shown to be highly represented in the CX3CR1-GFP+ fraction within the lungs . The combination of CCR2 and CX3CR1 deficient mice and parabionts permitted a more precise characterization of the nature and origin of the different subsets and confirmed that interstitial ECFP+ were monocyte-derived according to the proposed unified nomenclature  . Krummel’s group previously performed functional imaging of lung DC using the Itgax-YFP reporter  . The combination of this reporter with the MacBlue mouse confirmed that interstitial monocyte-derived cells were distinct from lung DC . Histological analysis showed that monocyte-derived cells and DC share the surveillance activity through distinct regional distribution , the former located in the alveolar space at the interface with the bloodstream and the latter near larger bronchial airways . In vivo CD45 labelling added a new dimension of regional segregation between AM , interstitial macrophages , CD11b+ DC , CD11b− DC , and lung monocytes . This specific regional segregation at steady state is likely the result of the rapid circulation of monocytes that arrest constitutively in the capillaries of the alveolar space with relatively short life span  , whereas DC are slow motile cells  . Of course regional segregation is likely less marked in the allergic asthma model for which important DC recruitment was observed in the vicinity of the alveoli , likely originating from monocytes  , where they exert longer transepithelial dendrites formation toward airways  . Our data demonstrate that the interstitial space of the lung is intensively surveyed by monocytes actively migrating or extending processes . The strategic positioning of lung monocytes at the interface allows for efficient capture of both blood and airway-derived particles . Four hours after intranasal inoculation , fluorescent particles remained undetectable in the mediastinal lymph nodes , as previously observed  , however after 1 d , DC seem to prevail over monocytes in the transport of the inhaled particles . This suggests that the majority of monocytes may scavenge particles to clean up the tissue and filter the blood , whereas the majority of DC aim to transport antigen to the draining lymph node . Due to the vascular permeability of the lung , it is challenging to address the blood/tissue partitioning of the subsets  . We combined in vivo CD45 labelling and confocal imaging to determine the precise location of lung monocytes  . We determined that lung permeability does not allow it to be definitely concluded that lung monocytes share their time either intra- or extravascularly or even both . However , we showed that lung monocytes have a slightly differentiated phenotype compared to the circulating monocytes with a downregulation of CD115 and CD62L and an upregulation of CD11b and CD11c . Secondly , the proportions of Ly6Chigh and Ly6Clow monocytes were different in the lungs compared to the blood . Several studies used in situ imaging of the lung  , but it is likely that working on lung explants may somehow affect the dynamics of the studied cells . By contrast to the CX3CR1-dependence of endothelium patrolling  as well as transepithelial dendrite formation in the gut  , the patrolling activity of interstitial monocytes in the lung was unaffected by the absence of this receptor , whereas their scanning activity was severely impaired . showed that CX3CL1 was expressed by the epithelial cells of bronchioles and in the alveolar space using the CX3CL1-RFP reporters  , arguing in favour of the role of this axis in protrusive activity of the CX3CR1+ monocyte-derived cells . Because CX3CR1 is an important survival pathway , it is unclear whether these modifications are related to defects in chemotactic signal or cell survival . We did not observe defects in phagocytosis in CX3CR1-deficient mice  , suggesting that the recently recruited monocytes are functional , arguing in favour of a role of CX3CR1 in their survival  . Overall , our study provided important fundamental insights into the behaviour of tissue monocytes during the process of immune surveillance in comparison to resident macrophages and DC in a key biological tissue . Monocyte-derived cells developed an organized distribution at the interface between blood and airways with a specific pattern of movements in the lungs to enable them to rapidly detect danger , trigger inflammation , capture antigen , and undergo subsequent immune response . Cx3cr1-GFP-Kin  or Itgax-YFP transgenic mice   and Csf1r-Gal4VP16/UAS-ECFP   were intercrossed to generate Cx3cr1gfp/+×Csf1r-Gal4VP16/UAS-ECFP mice herein called MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ or MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/gfp , and MacBlue×Itgax-YFP , respectively . Cx3cr1gfp/+-Ccr2rfp/+ mice were kindly provided by Israel Charo   to generate Cx3cr1gfp/gfp-Ccr2rfp/+ , Cx3cr1gfp/+-Ccr2rfp/- , and Cx3cr1gfp/gfp-Ccr2rfp/rfp mouse strains . C57Bl6 female host parabionts were generated with MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+females and analysed after 1 month of parabiosis . In these settings , monocyte chimerism from B6 to MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ was around 37 ± 14% and MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ to B6 was reduced to 14 ± 13% . Phagocytosis by lung subsets was analysed 4 hr after inoculation by flow cytometry . After blood was drawn via retro-orbital puncture with heparin , the mouse lung vasculature was gently flushed with an intracardiac injection of PBS until complete blood clearance . For in vivo CD45 staining experiments , the lung vasculature was not flushed . Lungs were then harvested and digested in RPMI medium  with 1 mg/ml collagenase IV  for 30 min at 37°C and/or directly  dissociated through a 70 μm-pore cell strainer  to obtain the cell suspension . The panel of antibodies used was: anti-CD11b  , anti-Ly6C  , anti-Ly6G  , anti-NK1 . 1  , anti-CD45  , anti-CD11c  , anti-I-Ab  , anti-CD 62L  , anti-SiglecF  , anti-CD24  , anti-CD103 clone  , rat IgG2b isotype control  , F4/80  , CD115  , rat IgG2a isotype control  , and anti-CD64   . Vascular staining using beads was performed on histological sections of lung from MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice injected 5 min before sacrifice with a mixture of 10 µm Polybead Carboxylate Microspheres and 0 . Lung sections were rehydrated with PBS for 10 min , counterstained and mounted with Vectashield Mounting Medium with DAPI  . CD31 vascular staining was performed on lung cryo-sections from MacBlue×Cx3cr1gfp/+ mice . Slides were counterstained and mounted with Vectashield Mounting Medium with DAPI and analysed by using a Zeiss LSM 710 NLO confocal microscope coupled with 458 nm , 488 nm , and 543 nm lasers to detect ECFP , EGFP , and Cy3 simultaneously on three photomultipliers . Freshly explanted lungs were immobilized in an imaging chamber perfused with oxygenated  RPMI medium containing 10% FCS . For some experiments , 2 MkDa rhodamine dextran was injected intravenously 1 min before euthanasia and lung vasculature was ligatured to reduce leakage of the dye . Patrolling monocytes are ECFP+ and small with an amoeboid-like shape displaying strong displacements in the interalveolar space . Interstitial monocyte-derived cells are ECFP+ sessile cells displaying protrusive activity in the interalveolar space . Interstitial EGFP+ are either small and round  in the lung alveolar space , or dendritic-shaped in the pleura and along airways . "
"Production of mRNA depends critically on the rate of RNA polymerase II  elongation . To dissect Pol II dynamics in mouse ES cells , we inhibited Pol II transcription at either initiation or promoter-proximal pause escape with Triptolide or Flavopiridol , and tracked Pol II kinetically using GRO-seq . Moreover , paused Pol II is relatively stable , as evidenced from half-life measurements at ∼3200 genes . Finally , tracking the progression of Pol II after drug treatment establishes Pol II elongation rates at over 1000 genes . Notably , Pol II accelerates dramatically while transcribing through genes , but slows at exons . Furthermore , intergenic variance in elongation rates is substantial , and is influenced by a positive effect of H3K79me2 and negative effects of exon density and CG content within genes . After initiation of Pol II , transcription regulation is mediated mostly by the dynamics of Pol II elongation . For example , +20 to 100 nts downstream of the transcription start site  , Pol II can be slowed down and paused by negative elongation factor  , DRB-sensitivity inducing factor  and core promoter components  . The escape of Pol II from the paused state into productive elongation can be rate-limiting , and is dependent on the positive elongation factor P-TEFb , which consists of the Cdk9 kinase and CyclinT1  . P-TEFb is recruited directly or indirectly to the paused Pol II complex by transcription activators , where it phosphorylates the C-Terminal domain  , as well as DSIF and NELF , transforming DSIF into a positive elongation factor and evicting NELF  . P-TEFb appears to be both necessary and sufficient for paused Pol II escape into productive elongation; blocking P-TEFb kinase activity with the drug flavopiridol   in Drosophila causes an increase of promoter proximal Pol II at the majority of genes  . The accumulation of paused Pol II has been proposed to be the result of rapid rounds of termination and re-initiation , creating a highly dynamic Pol II peak at the promoter proximal region  . However , paused Pol II in Drosophila seems remarkably stable as shown by extensive kinetic and in vivo analysis at the Drosophila Hsp70 locus  and by estimation of decay rates of over a dozen Drosophila genes by blocking TFIIH helicase activity , and thereby initiation , with the drug triptolide   . Thus , Drosophila Pol II transcription can be regulated by the promoter proximal , stable pausing and by transcription factor-controlled entry of paused Pol II into productive elongation in Drosophila . In mammals , promoter proximal pausing also seems to be a P-TEFb dependent and rate-limiting step during early elongation for many genes  . Expressed genes without a peak of paused Pol II in one cell type , may acquire pausing in another  , indicating that genes have the potential of becoming regulated by promoter proximal pausing even when a promoter proximal Pol II peak is absent . However , it is unclear if all genes undergo this P-TEFb dependent step in mammals , and how stable the paused Pol II is . Downstream of the promoter proximal region , the rate of Pol II elongation has been proposed to influence  transcriptional processes such as splicing  , 3′ end processing  , termination  , and overall levels of mRNA  . Moreover , Pol II has been shown to accumulate preferentially at spliced exons  , leading to the hypothesis that reduction of Pol II elongation rate facilitates splice site recognition and spliceosome assembly , and thus , splicing of the associated intron  . Indeed , transcription with a slow mutant of Pol II promotes alternative splicing in human and yeast cells  . Despite observations of Pol II accumulation at exons , three studies that directly measured elongation rates at multiple genes could not clearly demonstrate a correlation between exons and elongation rate  . Furthermore , although in vitro studies clearly show the effect of nucleosomes and histone modifications on elongation rate  , the in vivo consequences of chromatin on elongation rate are less understood , primarily because of the inability to measure elongation rates at many genes simultaneously . Previous studies have measured elongation rates ranging from 1 to 4 kb/min at individual genes in various organisms  . Recently , elongation rates for over 160 genes were measured simultaneously by following the induction wave of Pol II after estradiol or TNF-alpha treatment  . Interestingly , this study showed a broad range of elongation rates between and within cell types , suggesting that the control of elongation rate may be used to regulate transcription and co-transcriptional processes . Thus far , elongation rates have only been measured in rapidly inducible genes , which limits the analytical power to reveal the associations to various features of transcription . Therefore , it is critical to expand the number of elongation rates measured simultaneously in vivo , to allow systematic analysis of the correlation between exons , chromatin and elongation rate . In this study , we use Trp and FP , two highly specific drugs to block initiation or pause escape , in combination with the sensitive GRO-seq assay  to examine the drug-induced kinetic changes in Pol II distribution over promoter proximal regions and in the gene body . While FP blocks escape of paused Pol II , elongating Pol II can still clear the gene , and both changes can easily be followed by the sensitive and transcription orientation specific GRO-seq assay . We definitively show that P-TEFb is required for paused Pol II to escape into a productive elongation , providing a platform for transcription regulatory input on the early elongation rate , even for genes not previously known to be paused , confirming and extending earlier results using ChIP-seq of Pol II  . Similarly , use of Trp to block Pol II initiation and entry to the pause , allows kinetic analysis of paused Pol II stability on nearly 3200 genes , showing that paused Pol II has a relatively long half-life and excluding rapid termination mechanisms as a major factor of Pol II regulation at the promoter . Furthermore , inhibition of Pol II gene body entry causes a ‘wave’ of elongating Pol II that , when assayed as a function of time after FP or Trp addition , allows measurement of elongation rates at over 1000 genes simultaneously , and over different regions within genes . We show that Pol II elongation rates increase within the gene body , suggesting a gradual maturation of the elongation complex as it progresses through the gene . Elongation rates correlate negatively with exon density and CpG content and methylation , and positively with active transcription mark H3K79me2 . Overall , we can explain ∼30% of the gene-by-gene variation in elongation rates . Our study of the dynamics of Pol II shows that elongation rate is highly dynamic at all genes , both at the promoter proximal region and within the gene body . When a gene is activated , P-TEFb kinase is recruited to promoters and phosphorylates the paused Pol II·NELF·DISF complex , allowing paused Pol II to more rapidly escape into productive elongation . To minimize off-target and secondary effects , we first determined the minimum concentrations of FP and Trp required to clear Pol II from the ActB gene body using ChIP-qPCR with an antibody to total Pol II  , and then used these concentrations , which were at the lower spectrum compared to previous studies  , in our genome-wide analyses . Because inhibition of P-TEFb and initiation were anticipated to have large genome-wide effects on Pol II transcription , we normalized treated and control libraries to in vitro transcribed Arabidopsis thaliana RNAs added during the run-on . Timed inhibition of pause escape  or initiation  has similar effects on the gene body Pol II distribution , but opposite effect at the promoter-proximal region . Western blots of chromatin bound or unbound protein fractions of mES cells after 50 min of Trp , FP or DMSO  treatment or no treatment  , with antibodies against Ser2- , and Ser5-phosphorylated CTD , or N-terminal Pol II . After FP or Trp treatment the bound fraction of total Pol II was reduced to ∼50 and 30% , respectively , while the free fraction was increased after treatment with FP , but not with Trp . Fraction of Pol II bound to chromatin that is phosphorylated at Ser2 or Ser5 of the CTD after 50 min of Trp or FP treatment . FP treatment causes an overall ∼50% reduction of phosphorylation of bound Pol II at both Ser2 and Ser5 . Stability of Pol II elongation after the inhibition of initiation or pause escape . Composite profile of Pol II GRO-seq density from 230 to 240 kb downstream of the TSS in genes larger than 250 kb after treatment with Trp for 0 , 12 . 005 To assess the cellular effects of the drugs on Pol II and the phosphorylation of its CTD , we fractionated insoluble chromatin from the soluble cytoplasmic/nucleoplasmic fractions of control and drug treated mESCs and performed western blots with antibodies against the N-terminus of Rpb1 , and the Serine5 or Serine2 phosphorylated CTD  . Chromatin bound Pol II is reduced after treatment with either FP or Trp  . However , phosphorylation of the CTD of chromatin bound Pol II was reduced only after FP treatment , but not Trp  . Overall , these results indicate that FP and Trp exert the intended effects on the phosphorylation of the Pol II CTD . Two long genes , Pkp4 and Ppp2r5e  , and composite profiles of all genes  illustrate the effects of P-TEFb inhibition by FP  and TFIIH inhibition by Trp  on Pol II distribution . Furthermore , as the FP and Trp dependent block of Pol II entry into the gene persists , elongating Pol II forms ‘inhibition waves’ that are very similar between treatments  . Downstream of these inhibition waves , Pol II density levels remain equal throughout the time course , indicating that elongating Pol II in the gene body is not affected  . The composite paused Pol II peak increases after FP treatment  , but disappears after Trp treatment  . These results confirm that Trp blocks transcription initiation and causes the time dependent clearing of Pol II from the promoter and gene body , while FP’s prominent effect is to block escape from the pause , causing a time dependent gene body clearance but enhanced promoter proximal Pol II pausing . To extend this result to mammals , we quantified changes in Pol II distribution near the TSS after FP treatment and compared it to the effects of Trp treatment . 5 kb in length and well resolved  , and generated heat-maps of the Pol II density ± 2 kb around the TSSs of each gene before and after 50 min of drug treatment on the sense or antisense strand  . While Trp causes a reduction in the promoter and downstream regions of the annotated gene  , and the upstream divergent region   , FP inhibition causes the opposite effect on the promoter regions  . Pol II density in the gene body is decreased after FP treatment , but Pol II increases in promoter proximal and divergent regions at the majority of genes  . These results indicate that FP generally allows newly recruited Pol II to enter into early elongation and pausing , but blocks the entry into productive elongation . While a smaller fraction  of genes displayed an unexpected decrease in paused and divergent Pol II peaks  , these genes generally display lower levels of pausing and gene body transcription  . This suggests that FP can reduce initiation or increase termination of weakly paused and less active genes , either directly or indirectly . Generally , the change in Pol II promoter density after FP inhibition correlates positively with the preexisting level of pausing and productive transcription of a gene  , suggesting that efficient initiation is a prerequisite for an FP-induced increase in paused Pol II . Pol II distribution and change at the TSS region of active genes after pause escape  or initiation  inhibition . Left panel shows a density plot of the log10 of reads of the no Trp dataset , in 10 bp windows ±2 kb around TSSs of active genes . As in  , log10 reads in 10 bp windows around the TSS of the no FP control dataset  , and the log10 difference in reads between 50 min FP treatment and no treatment for the sense  and antisense strand  . The average fold change of promoter proximal Pol II in a 250 bp region in the sense direction after 50 min FP treatment in quartiles of pausing , as measured by the pausing index  , and activity , as measured by GRO-seq gene body density  . Paused Pol II decay rates are calculated by non-linear regression with an exponential decay model over the read counts in the promoter-proximal region of each replicate time point in the Trp time course for each individual gene . The half-life’s of Pol II in promoter proximal regions of 3181 genes that have a high confidence decay rate with standard deviations  . Change in promoter proximal and gene body read density , and pausing index after treatment with FP or Trp in time . The divergent peak was found by using a 250 bp region with maximal read density in a window of −1000 to +500 bp around the annotated TSS on the antisense strand , and change was defined similarly as the gene body change . Pausing indexes  are the ratio between gene body and promoter proximal Pol II density , and the change in PI has therefore no Fisher Exact p-value associated with it . Differential dynamics of paused Pol II upon the inhibitions of initiation or the pause escape . Log10 of GRO-seq read count in 10 bp bins ± 2 kb around the TSSs of active genes  before and after 50 min treatment with Trp  , or before and after 50 min of FP treatment  . 010 Quantification of the decrease in read density directly downstream of the TSS shows that 96% of genes are significantly decreased after Trp treatment , while 95% of genes are decreased after FP treatment  . This demonstrates that P-TEFb-dependent Pol II entry into productive elongation is as universal a step in gene transcription as TFIIH helicase-dependent initiation . After blocking Pol II initiation with Trp , the level of promoter proximal Pol II will decrease in time with a rate comprising both escape and termination . This decay rate indicates the stability of paused Pol II , from which we can infer whether pausing is regulated by continuous cycling of termination and re-initiation , characterized by a high decay rate and a minimal half-life of paused Pol II , or whether paused Pol II is relatively stable , and is released into productive elongation by a positive signal like recruitment and phosphorylation by P-TEFb . We calculated decay rates of Pol II after Trp treatment using a first order exponential decay model , and found high confidence decay rates for 3181 genes   . The mean half-life of Pol II is 6 . Thus , promoter proximal Pol II stability is comparable between species and paused Pol II is relatively stable . Pol II that is already transcribing when FP is added generates a clearly distinguishable wave as time progresses . We also tracked the wave following Trp addition as an independent strategy for blocking Pol II entry into genes  . The Trp inhibition wave was less clearly defined than the FP wave , likely due to the fact that Pol II initiated and paused before Trp treatment will gradually escape after TFIIH inhibition , resulting in a less defined block of Pol II entry into the gene body  . Genome-wide determination of Pol II elongation rates after FP and Trp treatment . Average of HMM derived transition points of the FP timecourse  or Trp timecourse  plotted against the time of drug treatment . Elongation rates derived from the FP time course . Introns longer than 10 kb  in the refseq gene list are grouped by their sizes , and the average RNA-seq read count per 100 bp bins are plotted by the distance from the 3′SS for each group . The RNA-seq gradients of the mid elongation rate genes  in the introns  grouped by the quartiles of the elongation rate  . The RNA-seq intron gradients of the refseq introns upstream of 25 kb from TSS  and introns downstream of 50 kb  on the same gene for a smaller region . Full list of elongation rates derived after FP treatments between times spanning 5–12 . We assumed two hidden states as ‘inhibition affected’ and ‘inhibition unaffected’ , with two emission probabilities that leads to low or high levels of Pol II densities , respectively . Elongation rates derived from the Trp time course . Average of HMM derived transition points of all the transition points in the FP time course  or of genes  that had three consecutive transition points  plotted against the time of drug treatment . Average of HMM derived transition points of the FP time course  or Trp time course  plotted against the time of drug treatment of genes we derived transition points for in both the Trp and FP time course . Determination of elongation rates using the intron RNA-seq gradients . Intronic reads of poly  - RNA-seq form a gradient as a consequence of co-transcriptional splicing and elongation rates . Slow Pol II  will take longer than fast Pol II  to reach the nearest exon , allowing for a larger build-up of intronic reads and a steeper gradient before the intron is spliced out and degraded  than will fast Pol II   The GRO-seq density after 25 min FP treatment of genes with a transition point from the TSS to 60 kb is shown on the left . On the right , intron reads of the genes in the rate quartiles are plotted with read density in bins within introns >10 kb as a function of the distance to the 3′ SS . Acceleration of Pol II and its accompanying CTD phosphorylation . Elongation rates of genes from which more than one elongation rate could be determined . Acceleration constant calculated in genes that have at least two elongation rates , see  . Early acceleration is from early elongation rates to mid elongation rates , and late acceleration is from mid to late elongation rates . Elongation rates were corrected for exon density in the regions where elongation rates were measured . As in  , but for genes that have three elongation rates , and both acceleration constants are calculated within the same gene  . Mid elongation rates  , but not late elongation rates  , correlate negatively with pausing . Boxplots of mid elongation rates  or late elongation rates  in quartiles of pausing index . Composite profile of total Pol II , Serine 2 and Serine 5 phosphorylated Pol II ChIP-seq in mid elongation rate genes shows that total and Serine 5 phosphorylated Pol II accumulate near the TSS , while Serine 2 phosphorylated Pol II gradually increases in the gene body . Same as  , but normalized to total Pol II levels , showing that Serine 2 phosphorylation increase is independent from total Pol II levels . The most dramatic increase in Serine 2 phosphorylation is over the first 10 kb and is the interval corresponding to the largest increase in Pol II acceleration . 016 On average , Pol II travels about 100 kb during 50 min of FP treatment . This corresponds to an elongation rate of about 2 kb/min , which is comparable to Pol II rates from previous studies  . The average Pol II inhibition wave travels at identical rates after either Trp or FP treatment , indicating that inhibition of P-TEFb or off-target effects of FP are unlikely to have significant effects on elongation rates downstream of the promoter proximal region  . Although the HMM did not always derive transition points for each timepoint of drug treatment within genes , the average transition points of genes with detectable inhibition waves at three time-points behaved identically to the average of the genes where the HMM derived only one or two transition points  . Similarly , for genes where both FP and Trp transition points were reliably measured , the average FP and Trp transition points aligned well  . Next , we calculated elongation rates for genes that had two or more consecutive transition points . Since we do not include 0 min as a baseline , and start measuring transition points after 5 min when significant changes in Pol II distribution are observed , the lag time of the inhibitor action does not affect the elongation rate estimations . We directly measured 141 early  , 938 mid  , and 245 late  elongation rates , with average elongation rates of 0 . Thus , the direct measurement of elongation rates after inhibition of Pol II gene entry by FP or Trp leads to two main observations . First , elongation rates vary considerably between genes , and second , the elongation complex seems to accelerate as it transcribes through the gene . To verify our directly measured elongation rates , we compared the mid elongation rates group  , to an independent measurement of relative elongation rates  , using intronic reads of ribosomal RNA depleted total RNA-seq data from Sigova et al . The gradient of RNA density from the 5′ to 3′ splice sites  of the intron , normalized for gene expression by dividing intronic reads with the average read counts near the 3′ end of the introns , reflects the time Pol II spends during elongation along the intron . Slow Pol II will take longer to transcribe an intron , accumulating more RNA-seq reads prior to splicing and degradation , and resulting in a steep intronic RNA-seq read gradient . Fast Pol II will spend less time in an intron , reaching the 3′ SS and subsequent splicing and degradation of intronic RNA faster , resulting in a flatter intronic read pattern and a lower slope  . Because the saw tooth pattern was more clearly distinguishable in larger introns and because intronic reads are much less abundant than exonic reads in typical RNA-seq datasets , we grouped introns and used pooled intronic read counts on all introns longer than 10 kb . GRO-seq density after 25 min FP treatment in the mid elongation rate genes ordered from slow to fast shows clear alignment of the Pol II inhibition wave  . To verify the observed gene-to-gene variation in elongation rates of these genes , we split the 938 mid elongation rates genes into quartiles . The slope of the intronic density plots of the quartiles decreases as the directly measured elongation rates become faster  , independently confirming the gene-to-gene variation in elongation rates . Next , we explored the acceleration of Pol II within the gene body in independent ways:  Directly measuring elongation rates in different regions within genes ,  Analyzing relative elongation rates within different regions of the gene body with intronic RNA-seq read gradients . First , our direct measurement of early , mid and late elongation rates after either FP or Trp treatment suggests that Pol II accelerates as it transcribes through the gene body  , which is also evident from the non-linear increase of all the HMM-derived transition points plotted against time  . Moreover , elongation rates derived from multiple regions within the same gene were significantly greater further downstream in the gene body  , showing that this acceleration occurs within most genes and is not a consequence of elongation rate variation between genes . recently showed a similar acceleration of elongation rates within the gene body for estrogen or TNF-alpha induced genes . Second , we examined the read density in introns , as described above , in the region from the TSS to 25 kb , and in introns 50 kb downstream of the TSS within the same genes . The slope of intron read density as a function of distance to the 3′ SS is higher in the upstream region compared to the downstream region  , indicative of slower elongation rates upstream in genes , and acceleration as Pol II travels within the gene body . The acceleration is not constant , but decreases as transcription proceeds  , suggesting that the Pol II elongation complex ‘matures’ and reaches its maximum speed while transcribing a gene . The maturation could be caused by the stochastic accumulation of elongation factors to the Pol II complex , or by gradual stochastic loss of pausing factors . Indeed , pausing negatively correlates with mid elongation rates , while late elongation rates are not affected  , suggesting that pausing delays the maturation of Pol II . Furthermore , ChIP-seq composite profiles of total Pol II and of Ser5 or Ser2 phosphorylated CTD  show that Pol II Ser2 phosphorylation , which is a product of P-TEFb activity and other kinases  and presumably coincides with the loss of NELF and DSIF pausing activity , increases gradually within the gene body within the same region as the acceleration of the elongation complex  . This suggests that Pol II is modified gradually while it transcribes , leading to maturation and increased elongation rates . The GRO-seq density on the gene body shows the amount of productively elongating Pol II and reflects the transcriptional activity of genes . However , the average GRO-seq density shows a decrease as the Pol II travels into the body of the gene  . The decreasing pattern of gene body Pol II density in itself could be explained by the gradual termination of Pol II  , but alternatively , an accelerating Pol II could on its own produce a decreasing gene body Pol II density  . Thirdly , a mixed model can be envisioned where a decrease in termination and acceleration go hand in hand as Pol II progresses in the gene body  . The directly measured elongation rates  can be used to assess the degree to which termination and acceleration models contribute to the observed Pol II density decrease . If there is no loss of Pol II through termination , then Pol II density should be inversely proportional to the elongation rate . Therefore , comparing the inverse of the measured elongation rates  with the Pol II density  can be used to determine which model of Pol II elongation is more probable  . On average , the inverse of the elongation rate  does not fall below the density plot  in the gene body region  where the rates are measured  . This indicates that the bulk of the change in Pol II density stems from the acceleration of stably elongating Pol II molecules . Models of Pol II elongation  , and the expected steady-state GRO-seq density  and the inverse elongation rates  for each model  . The termination model proposes that the decrease in D is a combination of Pol II termination and increasing elongation rate , while the acceleration proposes that the decrease in D is primarily a consequence of increasing elongation rate . The steady-state GRO-seq density  and inverse elongation rates  from average transition points of the FP measurements . Correlation plot between GRO-seq gene body density as a measure of nascent transcription and RNA-seq as a measure of mRNA steady state level . Elongation rate correlates with GRO-seq density . Correlation plot was determined from the z-scores of the elongation rates and the gene body GRO-seq densities . Correlation of mRNA steady state level and GRO-seq of the 938 mid elongation rate genes  , and the monomial degree of the correlation derived from the slope . Simulation time-course of change in Pol II distribution after a block of Pol II entry into the gene body assuming an intrinsic acceleration model  and a termination model  . Pol II density D and inverse elongation rate v−1 plot of a simulation assuming a termination model as explained in the top panel of Figure 4A . Pol II density D and inverse elongation rate v−1 plot of a simulation assuming a mixed rates model . In this model , slower and faster populations of Pol II co-exists , and slower Pol II terminates more frequently leaving the faster Pol II more abundant in more downstream regions . Pol II density D and inverse elongation rate v−1 plot of a simulation assuming a intrinsic acceleration model as explained in the bottom panel of Figure 4A . 018 We further assessed the contribution of termination and acceleration by simulating these three models of Pol II dynamics and density profiles with different levels of termination . The measured elongation rates fit better to the model when the termination was insignificant compared to the acceleration  . Therefore , Pol II termination does not appear to have a global contribution to the amount of Pol II in the regions more downstream of 2–3 kb from the TSS . The steady state mRNA level is determined by the balance of nascent RNA production rate , which is represented by GRO-seq density times the elongation rate , as well as RNA processing and mRNA degradation  . Thus , deviation from a log–log slope of 1 in a correlation plot between steady state mRNA levels as measured by RNA-seq and GRO-seq density  could potentially be explained by differences in elongation rates . We observed a modest correlation between elongation rate and GRO-seq  , indicating that highly active genes have faster elongation rates and produce more mRNA , in agreement with a previous analysis of a smaller set of inducible genes  . To further assess the influence of elongation rates on steady state mRNA level , we examined the correlation between mRNA-seq and GRO-seq in the large group of mid elongation rate genes  . In contrast , when plotting the production rates , that is the mid elongation rates multiplied by the corresponding GRO-seq densities , vs mRNA level , the slope is reduced to 1 . 6  , indicating that elongation rate can partially explain the divergence between Pol II density and the mRNA level at highly transcribed genes . The large number of measured elongation rates allows us to identify major factors that influence variation in elongation rates . We used genes for which we measured the large number of mid elongation rates  to increase statistical power , and to rule out major effects of intrinsic acceleration in the comparison between elongation rates . Inhibition of P-TEFb , like inhibition of initiation , affects >95% of actively transcribed genes , showing that escape from pause is an integral step in the transcription cycle . However , not all active genes show signs of promoter proximal accumulation of paused Pol II in mES cells  . Clearly , this accumulation of Pol II depends on both the rate with which pause complex is formed  and its rate of escape to elongation . Some transcription factors stimulate the formation of paused Pol II , others recruit P-TEFb directly or indirectly to facilitate the escape of paused Pol II , while others do both  . The balance of these factors at promoters , together with pausing factors that stabilize Pol II  determine the relative accumulation paused Pol II . As we  and others  have shown , pausing of Pol II is remarkably stable at many genes , indicating that termination does not have a great effect on promoter proximal Pol II levels . This stably-paused Pol II may help maintain accessibility of the promoter to regulatory factors that tune transcriptional output by simply changing the escape rate of paused Pol II into the body of the gene . Indeed , heat shock has recently been shown both optically and biochemically to increase the escape of paused Pol II into the gene body at the Drosophila Hsp70 locus without decreasing termination of paused Pol II , arguing against a role for termination in the regulation of the accumulation and escape of paused Pol II . If Pol II undergoes a pausing step in the transcription cycle at all genes , then blocking P-TEFb kinase activity should lead to an increase of paused Pol II . However , a small fraction of poorly expressed and weakly paused genes show a reduction in paused Pol II after FP treatment . We speculate that transcription initiation , Pol II pausing , and escape into productive elongation are not necessarily uncoupled processes for all genes . Instead , disruption of pausing dynamics by FP may feed back on transcription initiation and decrease the formation of paused Pol II . Depletion of Nelf can decrease expression of a subset of genes , indicative of a dependency of initiation on pausing , in this case through the maintenance of nucleosome free promoters by paused Pol II  . Furthermore , precise mapping of Pol II reveals that core promoter elements appear to contribute to stronger and more promoter proximal pausing in Drosophila  . Overall , the specific inhibitors used in this manuscript inhibit either initiation or pause escape seemingly with few secondary effects , as the Pol II inhibition profile within gene bodies is remarkably similar after either drug treatment . Because P-TEFb inhibition affects all active genes , we could determine over 1300 individual elongation rates of Pol II , often at multiple regions within the same gene . has used GRO-seq following rapid induction of transcription to examine the rate of the Pol II induction wave front . Our elongation rates derived after inhibition of P-TEFb were slightly lower in comparison to the elongation rates derived after induction which may point to a model in which lagging Pol II pushes leading Pol II thereby increasing overall elongation rates  . Indeed , elongation rates in highly expressed genes , where elongating Pol II is more tightly packed , are faster compared to rates in poorly expressed genes in both studies  . Moreover , we have shown that chromatin composition , specifically H3K79me2 and CpG content , of genes influences elongation rates . DNA methylation and CG content negatively influence elongation rate , and could partially explain the difference between mESC and differentiated cell line derived elongation rates  . We have shown that elongation rates can influence steady state mRNA levels  , and that H3K79me2 positively influences elongation rate  . Mammalian genes of over 200 kb and twofold differences in elongation rates between genes are not uncommon , leading to variation in response time of mRNA production of an hour or more . The hypothesis that Pol II elongation rate regulates splicing is longstanding  . Here , we show directly that exon density is the greatest predictor of elongation rates  , strongly suggesting that Pol II slows down at each exon . Although we demonstrate that Pol II slows down at exons , presumably to facilitate splicing , we could not determine whether a slowly transcribing Pol II increases inclusion of exons . Although rates of elongation have been shown to influence splicing outcomes  , the effects on specific genes , we suggest , will be governed by competing processes such as rates of splicing complex assembly , RNA secondary and tertiary structure formation , and regulatory factor binding . While our data cannot on its own assess the outcomes on alternative splicing of such competing and cooperating processes , our observed slow down of transcription at exons supports the general view that Pol II elongation rates are coupled to splicing at all exons . The genes for analysis of FP and Trp sensitivity are the top 75% active genes larger than 3 . 5 kb present in both the FP as the Trp control dataset , without genes that have an annotated TSS within 1000 bp on the opposite strand  and genes that have an annotated polyA site upstream of its TSS within 10 kb   . Pause and divergent peak locations were found by searching for maximum sense or antisense strand read density in 10 bp windows from ±500 bp or −1000 to +500 around the annotated TSS of the 6380 selected genes , respectively . The pausing index is the ratio of the pause peak density and the annotated gene body region density  . To calculate the fold change after FP or Trp treatment for each timepoint , we added a pseudo-count to the divergent , pause or gene body region close to the TSS  , calculated the density in the mappable region of each and took the ratio of the read densities . Decay rates were calculated by selecting seven points randomly of the seven Trp datasets for 1000 times and doing non-linear regression using an exponential decay equation ( Rt = RWT × e−  , with pause peak read density R , decay rate λ , and Trp treatment time t ) with each of the seven points . Density plots of the 6380 selected genes around the TSS were made by taking the log10 of counted reads plus a pseudo-count in 10 bp windows around the annotated TSS for the sense and antisense strands in the control and 50 min treated datasets . The change in each 10 bp window was calculated by subtracting the no FP/Trp from the 50 min FP/Trp log10 read count . Genes were ordered by maximum pause peak read density decrease or increase after 50 min Trp or FP treatment . The transition points from the drug affected  region to the drug unaffected  region of the gene body were determined by a regional transition point calling algorithm  for each replicate of FP or Trp GRO-seq time courses . Intronic reads are sparse , so we pooled multiple genes to assess the relative elongation rate . Apart from the termination and acceleration models described in Figure 4A , we also considered a mixed model , in which elongating Pol II could consist of different populations; fast Pol II , transcribing at maximum speed throughout the entire gene body , and slow , non-processive Pol II . If the slow population terminates prematurely leaving the fast Pol IIs , then the overall apparent elongation rate would increase as transcription proceeds in the gene body . To differentiate between the termination , acceleration and mixed model , we used a Monte Carlo simulation describing the dynamics of Pol II movement through the gene body . In short , we simulated the time course of the inhibition wave of Pol II  and used the regional transition point calling algorithm  to define the transition points of inhibition waves and elongation rates . The relationship between the simulated Pol II density and the inverse of average elongation rates of 1000 simulated experiments shows a clear difference between the models  . When we plotted the slope of simulated elongation rates vs the slope of inverse density in various simulated acceleration and termination models along with actual observations , the observations appear to fit better with the distribution of the acceleration models than the termination models  . In detail , the dynamics of elongating Pol II in gene body is simulated using a newly designed modeling program to describe Pol II transcription through a gene . First , we modeled a Pol II transcription complex entering the gene body region with an entry rate  as a function of time . Each Pol II molecule was generated with the rate r , and has a randomly assigned activity parameter  , from 0 to 100 as a percentile . This activity parameter A is an intrinsic value that determines the relative elongation and the termination rates for each Pol II molecule . The termination constant  and the elongation rate  are the functions dependent on the activity  as well as the position  within the gene body of the Pol II molecule . For instance , in a simple acceleration model where all Pol II molecules accelerate uniformly , kt = 0 for all A and x , while v is an increasing function of x but a constant function for A . In a termination model , intrinsically active Pol II molecules elongate faster while less active ones elongate at a slower rate and terminate more frequently . The distribution of simulated Pol II in N = 1000 DNA templates are equilibrated for 10 , 000s . The average Pol II distribution at this point is recorded as D . Upon the simulation of the decay of entry , average Pol II distribution is recorded every 100 s over 100 , 000 bp region . We calculated the intrinsic acceleration constant a of Pol II with vend = vstart × a Δt for corrected elongation rates between 5 to 12 . Elongation rates were corrected for exon density within the transition region where the rate was measured by using the linear regression formulas in Figure 5B and Figure 5—figure supplement 1A , B . For the linear regressions the elongation rates over transition regions that had an exon density >0 were taken into account to assess the additive time delay per exon . We correlated read density of ChIPseq factors in the promoter or transition regions with elongation rates . For factors that correlated with elongation rates , we made additional density profiles from −2 to 30 kb from the TSS in 25 bp windows in the 12 . 5–25 min mid elongation rate genes , ordered by mid elongation rate from slow to fast . Also , we looked at the elongation rates in quartiles of correlating factors in the promoter or transition regions . For the iterative linear modeling , we took the residual elongation rates after fitting to the linear modeling using a 1° feature  , and the residuals are again converted using the rank order z-statistics . The predicted values from the linear models using one or multiple features are plotted against the actual z-scores of the measured elongation rates to show the convergence of the prediction to the observation  . Western blot analysis was done in triplicate with antibodies against the Ser5  or Ser2  phosphorylated CTD , or N-terminal Pol II  . "
"We used connectomics to map synaptic paths between ciliary and rhabdomeric photoreceptors in the planktonic larva of the annelid Platynereis and found that ciliary photoreceptors are presynaptic to the rhabdomeric circuit . The ciliary photoreceptors are UV-sensitive and mediate downward swimming in non-directional UV light , a behavior absent in ciliary-opsin knockout larvae . UV avoidance overrides positive phototaxis mediated by the rhabdomeric eyes such that vertical swimming direction is determined by the ratio of blue/UV light . Since this ratio increases with depth , Platynereis larvae may use it as a depth gauge during vertical migration . The visual photoreceptor cells in most protostome eyes , including the compound eyes of arthropods , the pigment-cup eyes of annelids and the camera or stalk eyes of mollusks , are rhabdomeric and express rhadomeric  opsins  . In contrast , the visual eyes of vertebrates have cPRCs  where the ciliary  opsin photopigment is stored in specialized ciliary membrane compartments  . The class of opsin expressed in a PRC generally correlates with the cell’s morphological type , with cPRCs usually expressing c-opsins and rPRCs expressing r-opsins  . Here we study the planktonic larva of Platynereis dumerilii , a marine annelid that has both photoreceptor cell types . In Platynereis , non-pigmented brain cPRCs with ramified cilia express a ciliary type opsin   and coexist with r-opsin-expressing rPRCs that are part of the pigmented visual eyes  and eyespots  . When the rPRC is activated during helical swimming , the ciliary beating changes on the illuminated side , so that the larva reorients its trajectory towards the light source . Nectochaete larvae  develop two pairs of adult eyes with several rPRCs coexpressing r-opsin1 , r-opsin3 and Go-opsin  . C-opsin1 was recently shown to absorb UV light . This suggests that the c-opsin1-expressing cPRCs mediate circadian entrainment by ambient UV light  . However , the precise function of the cPRCs in Platynereis larvae and how they interact with rPRCs is still unknown . To identify synaptic connections between the cPRC and rPRC circuits , we used a serial-section transmission electron microscopy  dataset spanning the entire body of a 72 hr post fertilization  Platynereis larva  . Previously , we reported the synaptic connectome of the rPRCs from the visual eyes and eyespots ,  and the direct postsynaptic circuit of the four cPRCs with ramified cilia  . The four cholinergic cPRCs send axons to the neurosecretory plexus in the anterior nervous system and synapse on four peptidergic/cholinergic RGW interneurons  and four NOS interneurons ( labelled INNOS , and named after the expression of the nitric oxide synthase  gene; unpublished ) . The RGW cells synapse on two serotonergic cells  that , together with their postsynaptic partner , the cholinergic MC neuron , are part of the ciliomotor circuitry of the larva  . To analyze the possible synaptic integration of the rPRC and cPRC circuits , we searched for all synaptic connections between neurons of these circuits  in a synapse-level skeleton reconstruction of all cells in the larval head  . Third , two putative mechanosensory neurons bearing a sensory cilium and a collar of microvilli and located in the median head   are postsynaptic to the RGW cells and presynaptic to the vMNs and INpro interneurons of the visual circuit  . Our graph search did not reveal any neurons that were directly postsynaptic to the rPRC circuit  and presynaptic to any neuron of the cPRC circuit . This suggests that the cPRCs could influence phototaxis , a behavior mediated by the rhabdomeric eyes and eyespots  . First , to estimate the light sensitivity of the cPRCs , we reconstructed the morphology with ssTEM and measured the total sensory membrane surface-area of a cPRC  . This suggests that Platynereis cPRCs are sensitive enough to mediate acute light sensation . Next , we expressed Platynereis c-opsin1 in COS1 cells , reconstituted it with 11-cis-retinal and purified it . The reconstituted pigment absorbed in the UV range with a λ-max of 384 nm in the dark spectrum and a λ-max of 370 nm in the dark-light difference spectrum  , in agreement with a recent report  . To investigate how the cPRCs respond to light , we did calcium imaging with larvae ubiquitously expressing the calcium sensor GCaMP6s  . When imaged with a low-intensity 488 nm laser , the cPRCs had a high resting calcium level and the GCaMP6s signal highlighted their sensory cilia . When the cPRC cilia were locally stimulated  for 5 min with 405 nm light  , the calcium level dropped transiently at the cPRC somata and then increased strongly . These cells correspond by position to the four RGW interneurons , which together with the four NOS interneurons are direct postsynaptic targets of the cPRCs   . These four SN cells correspond by position to four sensory-neurosecretory neurons that are postsynaptic to the cPRCs in the anterior nervous system    . We next compared the responses of the RGW interneurons and the four SN neurons to 405 and 488 nm stimulation of the cPRCs . The RGW interneurons and the SNearly sensory neurons only responded to 405 nm stimulation  but not to 488 nm stimulation . Thus , the cPRCs and their postsynaptic neurons respond differentially to violet and blue stimulation , with only violet light inducing cPRC depolarization and consistent changes in the activity of postsynaptic neurons . To characterize how Platynereis larvae react to UV-violet light , we assayed larval swimming behavior in a vertical column setup . Since Platynereis larvae show strong directional phototaxis to a broad spectrum of light   , we illuminated the setup equally from two opposite sides with non-directional UV light so that the larvae could not respond with directional phototaxis  . When the larvae were stimulated with non-directional UV light , they started to swim downward . To characterize the wavelength dependence of this behavior , we assayed larvae in a vertical cuvette and stimulated them with monochromatic light of different wavelengths from two sides . The larvae swam down to UV-violet light  but not to longer wavelengths  . This downward swimming UV-avoidance behavior to non-directional UV-violet light has not been previously reported in Platynereis . The observations that UV-avoidance can be triggered by non-directional light and has an action spectrum that closely matches the absorption spectrum of c-opsin1  suggest that the response is mediated by the non-pigmented cPRCs . If the cPRCs indeed mediate UV-avoidance , then the developmental onset of this response should correlate with the morphological differentiation of cPRCs . To test this , we assayed UV-avoidance  as well as phototaxis  at different larval stages  and correlated the behaviors to photoreceptor differentiation . Phototaxis , but not UV-avoidance was already present at 27 hpf , at a stage when the larval eyespots are already functional  . UV avoidance appeared at 36 hpf , approximately coinciding with the morphological differentiation of cPRCs   , but long before the differentiation of the adult eyes   . Thus , Platynereis larvae show UV-violet-light avoidance that is independent of phototaxis , can be induced by non-directional stimulus light , and is likely mediated by the UV-violet-responding non-pigmented cPRCs . To study how UV avoidance interacts with rhabdomeric-eye-mediated phototaxis , we stimulated the larvae in the vertical column with directional monochromatic light from above . When we used 380 nm stimulus light , both early-  and late-stage  larvae first swam upward towards the light  , and then swam downward  . These results indicate that the upward-swimming phase is phototaxis , which is then overwritten by the UV-avoidance response . 5 min after stimulus onset to focus on the phase when UV-avoidance has potentially overwritten phototaxis  . In response to illumination with 340–400 nm light , larvae swam downward after prolonged stimulation . In response to illumination with 440–540 nm light  or 440–600 nm light  , larvae swam upward  . 420 nm light did not trigger the vertical displacement of the larvae . The swimming direction could be switched several times by changing the wavelength of the light from 380 nm to 520 nm  , demonstrating that this behavioral switch does not habituate even after sustained exposure to light . These results indicate that directional UV-violet light first triggers upward-swimming phototaxis  , which is then overridden by the downward-swimming UV-avoidance response likely mediated by the cPRCs . Importantly , the switching in behavioral response cannot be explained as a wavelength-dependent alternation between positive and negative phototaxis , since early-stage larvae are exclusively positively phototactic   , yet already show the behavioral switch in swimming direction  . Next we asked if the antagonistic phototaxis and UV-avoidance behaviors could form a potential mechanism to measure depth by the larvae . Since blue and UV-violet light attenuate differently in seawater , the ratio of blue to UV-violet light increases with depth  . Strong UV-violet light at the ocean’s surface is expected to cause larvae to swim downward as an avoidance response , and relatively strong blue light in deeper waters is expected to trigger phototactic upward swimming . To test this , we exposed larvae to mixed wavelength light containing different photon ratios of UV  and blue  light coming from the top of the vertical column . At a 40% 380/480 ratio , larvae remained at a constant average depth  , despite being exposed to a directional light stimulus . Mixing the same intensity UV light as before with 660 nm red light ( a wavelength to which larvae do not respond phototactically at the intensity used  ) did not induce upward swimming at any 380/660 ratio  . These results suggest that UV avoidance and phototaxis act antagonistically and cancel each other out under certain wavelength ratios , resulting in no net vertical swimming . To test whether c-opsin1 mediates the UV-violet response in Platynereis larvae , we used a c-opsin1 Platynereis knockout line generated by TALEN-mediated genome editing . In homozygous c-opsin1Δ8/Δ8 larvae , the cPRCs had low resting calcium level and neither hyperpolarized nor depolarized upon 405 nm stimulation  . Thus , c-opsin1 in the Platynereis cPRCs is required for an elevated resting calcium level in the dark state and for hyperpolarization and subsequent depolarization upon 405 nm exposure . Next , we tested behavioral responses to light in c-opsin1Δ8 mutant larvae . Similar to wild type larvae , homozygous c-opsin1Δ8/Δ8 larvae swim upward  in response to 480 nm light . However , c-opsin1Δ8/Δ8 larvae have a defective UV-avoidance response . Whereas wild type larvae swim downward after an initial upward-swimming phase , c-opsin1Δ8/Δ8 larvae continue to swim upward , showing sustained positive phototaxis in response to UV light  . This indicates that an additional , c-opsin1-independent UV-avoidance mechanism may exist in Platynereis larvae  . These results show that c-opsin1 is a critical mediator of UV-avoidance . The loss of c-opsin1 is expected to disrupt the depth gauge since in c-opsin1 mutants both cyan and UV light induce sustained positive phototactic behavior which is likely mediated by the pigmented eyes with a broad spectral sensitivity  . Our results are consistent with the presence of a ratio-chromatic depth-gauge in the planktonic larvae of Platynereis dumerilii . The rPRCs mediate phototaxis to a broad range of wavelengths between UV and green light , while the cPRCs mediate UV-violet avoidance . Under UV-violet light , after approximately 30 s the UV-violet avoidance response overrides an initial phototactic response . Due to the differential attenuation of UV and blue light in seawater , this mechanism could allow the larvae to stay at a certain depth in the ocean . While the function of the rPRCs in the larval and adult eyes has previously been described  , here we defined , both physiologically and behaviorally , the function of the cPRCs and unraveled how they interact with the rPRC system . The cPRCs express a UV-absorbing opsin , have a high resting calcium level and react by hyperpolarization and subsequent depolarization to violet light  . The cPRCs mediate an UV-violet avoidance response characterized by downward swimming . The action spectrum of this behavior matches the absorption spectrum of c-opsin1 and the response is severely impaired in c-opsin1 knockouts , demonstrating a critical role for c-opsin1 in mediating it . The depolarizing response in the cPRCs shows a similar delayed onset as UV-violet avoidance , suggesting that the behavior is due to cPRC depolarization . This implies that cPRC depolarization is not due to direct opsin activation but to a sustained cell-autonomous or non-autonomous signal . The RGW cells follow the activity of cPRCs under violet but not blue illumination , whereas two groups of sensory neurons respond to violet light only  or to both violet and , to a lesser extent , blue light  . This response may be mediated by another opsin expressed in the cPRCs . One surprising observation is that cPRC hyperpolarization induced by violet or blue light has different downstream consequences . How cPRC activation and the postsynaptic responses lead to downward swimming during UV-avoidance is unclear . The cPRC circuit connects to the Ser-h1 serotonergic ciliomotor neurons  , suggesting that the modulation of ciliary activity may contribute to UV avoidance . The cPRCs and their direct postsynaptic targets are part of the neurosecretory brain center of the larva  , and knocking out one neuroendocrine signaling component leads to strong defects in UV avoidance  . We found that the cPRC circuit connects to the circuit of the rhabdomeric eyes via the cholinergic RGW interneurons and their distinct downstream synaptic pathways . Other sensory inputs may also tune phototaxis via the RGW-INsn pathway since neuropeptides derived from sensory-neurosecretory cells can influence RGW neuron activity  . UV light may thus tune mechanosensation that may in turn modulate phototaxis . Although we need more comparative data to test this model , we hypothesize that the cell-type mosaic of the vertebrate retina may have originated from the hierarchical integration of distinct cPRC and rPRC circuits mediating antagonistic behaviors , as observed in Platynereis larvae . Larvae of Platynereis dumerilii were cultured at 18°C in a 16 hr light 8 hr dark cycle until experiments . We refer to color according to these wavelength ranges: UV <400 nm , violet 400–450 nm , blue 450–490 nm  , cyan 490–520 nm . 27-hour-old , 36-hour-old , 2-day-old , and 3-day-old Platynereis dumerilii larvae were stimulated in the column with UV  light from the LEDs on the side . Afterwards , the larvae were stimulated with monochromatic blue  light coming from above to assay for phototaxis . To compare the behavior of wildtype and c-opsin1-knockout larvae in the vertical column , we tested individual batches of larvae . The larvae were recorded for 1 min in the dark followed by exposure to collimated blue  light from the top of the column for 2 min , then 2 min darkness , and finally collimated UV  light from above for 2 min . Early and late-stage Platynereis dumerilii larvae were assayed in the vertical columns . The larvae were stimulated six times alternatively with UV  and green  light . 2-day-old and 3-day-old Platynereis dumerilii larvae were assayed in vertical columns . The larvae were stimulated with monochromatic light from above between 340 nm and 480 nm in 20 nm steps . Between the stimuli , additional 520 nm stimuli were introduced to avoid the accumulation of the larvae at the bottom after UV treatment . The larvae were also stimulated with monochromatic light from above between 400 nm and 680 nm in 20 nm steps . 3-day-old Platynereis dumerilii larvae were stimulated with UV-blue  or UV-red  mixed light from above . In each step , 10% UV-light was replaced by blue or red light . Each step was followed by a blue  light stimulus to avoid the accumulation of the larvae at the bottom after UV treatment . 2-day-old Platynereis dumerilii larvae were assayed in a vertical cuvette of 10 mm x 10 mm x 42 mm  . The larvae were stimulated with light from 340 nm to 560 nm in 20 nm steps . The genomic region of c-opsin1 was amplified to screen for putative size-polymorphic alleles or single nucleotide polymorphisms  from different Platynereis strains  with the following screening primers: cops1_F1/R1 , cops1_F2/R2 , cops1_F3/R3 , cops1_F4/R4 and cops1_F5/R5 ( For a detailed protocol for SNP screening see:  . 200 ng/μl/TALEN mRNA was microinjected into Platynereis zygotes  and screened for TALEN-induced mutations  with the PCR primers cops1_TAL_R1/cops1_TAL_L2 followed by restriction digest by the BanI enzyme for the TAL_pair3 and MluC1 for the TAL_pair4 . For genotyping of the c-opsin1 locus , genomic DNA was isolated from single larvae , groups of 6–20 larvae , or from the tails of adult worms . "
"In HIV-1 infection , a population of latently infected cells facilitates viral persistence despite antiretroviral therapy  . With the aim of identifying individuals in whom ART might induce a period of viraemic control on stopping therapy , we hypothesised that quantification of the pool of latently infected cells in primary HIV-1 infection  would predict clinical progression and viral replication following ART . We measured HIV-1 DNA in a highly characterised randomised population of individuals with PHI . We explored associations between HIV-1 DNA and immunological and virological markers of clinical progression , including viral rebound in those interrupting therapy . In multivariable analyses , HIV-1 DNA was more predictive of disease progression than plasma viral load and , at treatment interruption , predicted time to plasma virus rebound . HIV-1 DNA may help identify individuals who could safely interrupt ART in future HIV-1 eradication trials . Renewed interest in exploring avenues for curing Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1  infection  has resulted in the investigation of interventions to eradicate cells in which HIV-1 persists despite antiretroviral therapy  . Once HIV-1 has infected a cell and integrated its genome into the cellular DNA , that cell may revert to a resting state , only producing replication competent virions when activated at a later date . These cells have been labeled the ‘HIV reservoir’ . For clarity , we will use the term ‘reservoir’ to describe the population of HIV-1-infected cells that persist during ART and which are the source of rebound viraemia on stopping therapy . Many assays have been developed to quantify the HIV-1 reservoir , ranging from simple quantitative PCR  estimation of cell associated HIV-1 DNA to labour-intensive viral outgrowth assays   . Whereas measurement of plasma viraemia  and CD4 T cell count are documented surrogate markers of HIV clinical progression , the clinical relevance and utility of measuring the reservoir—regardless of assay–remains less clear . As cell-associated HIV-1 DNA precedes plasma viraemia in the viral life cycle , it is tantalizing to speculate whether measuring HIV-1 DNA  might have significant clinical relevance . It is well documented that HIV-1 DNA persists in patients on antiretroviral therapy  even when the plasma viral load is undetectable using the most sensitive assays  . Much of this detectable HIV-1 DNA has been found to be mutated and replication-incompetent calling into question its biological relevance  . As new interventions to cure HIV-1 infection are developed and taken into clinical trials , a means to measure their efficacy is needed . The best way to assess the patient successfully managed on ART is unclear but , with the viral load rendered undetectable , it is plausible that HIV-1 DNA might be an alternative biomarker for disease progression . For example , compared with individuals with uncontrolled viraemia , HIV-1 DNA levels are much lower in cohorts such as VISCONTI in which apparently persistent aviraemia has been reported following TI  , and in the case of the Mississippi baby extremely low DNA levels were associated with a prolonged period of virological remission . However , this contrasts with cases in which undetectable DNA on ART was associated with prompt rebound viraemia on stopping  . We therefore wished to gain a broader picture of the utility of measuring HIV-1 DNA levels by studying participants in a large , randomized trial of primary HIV-1 infection . We measured both Total and Integrated HIV DNA levels in peripheral blood CD4 T cells in participants in the Short Pulse Antiretroviral Treatment at HIV-1 Seroconversion  trial  –the largest randomized clinical trial of short-course ART in primary HIV-1 infection  . Was HIV-1 DNA independently predictive of clinical progression , and did HIV-1 DNA predict the time taken for viraemic rebound on stopping therapy , advocating its role in future treatment interruption protocols ? 154 participants across all the SPARTAC trial arms were studied based on infection with subtype B HIV-1 and sample availability . Participants who were randomised to receive no therapy or 48 weeks of ART and for whom samples were available  were studied in separate analyses described below . Assays of both Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA were conducted at pre-therapy ‘baseline’  and then at weeks 12 , 48 , 52 , 60 and 108 , where samples permitted . 003Total participants available for analysis*Number154Patients with a Total HIV-1 DNA test154  Patients with an Integrated HIV-1 test111  Log10 baseline Total HIV-1 DNA copies/ml3 . 88  Log10 baseline Integrated HIV-1 DNA copies/ml3 . Traditionally , plasma viral load   and CD4 cell count  are the only validated surrogate markers of progression used in the HIV-1 clinic . We therefore measured these biomarkers as well as HIV-1 DNA in 154 SPARTAC participants at enrolment to the trial and prior to any ART being given . The median  values of Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA values in PHI  were 7707  and 3830  copies of HIV-1 DNA per million CD4 T cells , respectively . Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels were closely associated   in these pre-therapy samples . Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA were significantly associated with plasma viral load   , and inversely with CD4 T cell count   . Interestingly , the estimated time since seroconversion at recruitment did not correlate with HIV-1 DNA   . HIV-1 DNA correlates with baseline plasma viral load and CD4 T cell count . Pre-therapy ‘baseline’ Total HIV-1 DNA   and Integrated HIV-1 DNA   correlated with log10 plasma HIV-1 RNA  and CD4 cell count  . Distribution of log10 total and integrated HIV-1-DNA levels in untreated patients at baseline . Kernel density plot to show distribution of Total  and Integrated  HIV-1-DNA at baseline . Pearson correlation for total and integrated HIV-1 DNA levels in untreated patients at baseline . Relationship between estimated time since seroconversion and HIV-1 DNA levels . Linear regression of HIV-1 DNA levels  vs the estimated time since seroconversion   . 007 For this analysis , disease progression was defined according to the primary end-point of the SPARTAC trial , that is , a composite end-point of either a CD4 T cell count of 350 cells/µl or the commencement of long-term ART   . We carried out Kaplan–Meier survival analyses with patients randomised to receive no ART , and stratified according to median HIV-1 DNA level at time of recruitment   . There was a significant delay in clinical progression in those with lower Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA at baseline   . The median time from randomization to primary endpoint stratified by low and high Total HIV-1 DNA levels was 187 . HIV-1 DNA predicts clinical progression in absence of ART . Kaplan–Meier survival analyses for  Total  and  Integrated  HIV-1 DNA and clinical progression , based on time from randomization to the SPARTAC trial primary endpoint of a CD4 T cell count of 350 cells/μl or starting long-term ART . HIV-1 DNA data was divided into two ‘high’ and ‘low’ at the median level , which was 4 . 61 copies HIV-1 DNA per million CD4 T cells for Total and Integrated , respectively . 008 Univariable Cox analyses showed Total HIV-1 DNA  , Integrated HIV-1 DNA ( HR 5 . Multivariable analyses were carried out with the baseline covariates , Total HIV-1 DNA , viral load , and CD4 T cell count . Here , Total HIV-1 DNA ( HR = 3 . 001Univariable and multivariable cox regression models were used to determine predictors of clinical progression in untreated individuals followed up from Primary HIV-1 Infection . Co-variables analysed were baseline  Total HIV-1 DNA , baseline plasma viral load and baseline CD4+ T cell count . One third of the participants recruited to SPARTAC were randomised according to the trial protocol to receive 48 weeks of ART before undertaking a treatment interruption  . This allowed us not only to study the impact of ART on HIV-1 DNA levels in this cohort  , but also to characterise what happens on stopping therapy after treatment initiated during PHI . Prior to starting ART , Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels were significantly different   , most likely explained by the presence of unintegrated circular and linear DNA forms . As expected , HIV-1 DNA levels after 48 weeks of ART were significantly lower than those measured at baseline  by 0 . After 48 weeks of ART , Total DNA levels remained significantly greater than Integrated levels in patients despite undetectable viraemia   . This is consistent with other reports of residual unintegrated HIV-1 DNA up to a year after ART initiation  . Analysis of impact on HIV-1 DNA of antiretroviral therapy . Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels and plasma viral load  were measured at Week 0 ‘baseline’  and also in those receiving 48 weeks of ART  . DNA levels  and viral load  were measured at all time-points , but not all participants were sampled at all time-points dependent on sample availability . Impact of stopping and re-starting ART on HIV-1 DNA . Total HIV-1 DNA levels were calculated in 15 patients on ART before TI  These patients subsequently started long-term ART  . 011 Having ascertained that in untreated individuals HIV-1 DNA was a predictor of progression , we now asked whether the lower HIV-1 DNA levels following ART would predict progression if therapy was stopped . We measured DNA levels in participants who received a median of 48  weeks of ART with successfully suppressed viraemia  , immediately prior to treatment interruption . Kaplan–Meier survival analyses were undertaken in which participants were again divided into two groups  based on median HIV-1 DNA levels at TI . Both low Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels associated with a longer time to trial endpoint   . The median time from TI to primary endpoint stratified by low and high Total HIV-1 DNA levels was 159 . HIV-1 DNA on ART predicts clinical progression following treatment interruption . Kaplan–Meier survival analyses for  Total  and  Integrated  HIV-1 DNA and clinical progression , based on time to the SPARTAC trial primary endpoint of a CD4 T cell count of 350 cells/μl or starting back on long-term ART . HIV-1 DNA data was divided into ‘high’ and ‘low’ at the median . DNA levels were measured at week 48 , at the point of stopping ART . 012 In univariable Cox regression analyses , Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA both predicted clinical progression from TI , determined by time to reaching the trial primary endpoint ( Total HR 3 . Multivariable cox regression models were constructed with HIV-1 DNA and CD4 cell count at TI . 013 ) HIV-1 DNA retained significance , and in both cases CD4 T cell count at TI was not a significant predictor ( HR 1 . At TI , HIV-1 DNA was the only predictor of the primary end point . One of the concerns around the viral rebound following a TI is the risk of ‘re-seeding’ the reservoir in individuals who might have extremely low HIV-1 DNA levels , and who might be candidates for ‘post-treatment control’ of viraemia  . We therefore measured HIV-1 DNA in those participants who had received 48 weeks of ART at the point of TI and then again 4 , 12 and 60 weeks post TI , where samples were available . Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels were not significantly greater than at the time of ART cessation for up to 12 weeks post TI , although had significantly increased 60 weeks after TI  , returning approximately to the Week 0 pre-therapy levels  . The increase in Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA 4 weeks after TI was not significant  , in contrast to the rebound in plasma viraemia  , which may be re-assuring for those implementing a TI strategy in which ART would be re-introduced when plasma VL became detectable . Of note , in an analysis of those individuals who subsequently restarted ART after the TI–and for whom we had samples  –there was no significant difference between the HIV-1 reservoir size pre-TI and at least 6 months after re-starting ART  , suggesting that any increase in HIV-1 DNA on stopping ART may be reversible if therapy is re-commenced . Although almost all participants in SPARTAC experienced VL rebound on stopping ART , we have previously shown that of those who received >12 weeks of therapy , 14% still had undetectable viraemia 12 months later  . We therefore wished to establish—albeit in this different , although overlapping , sub-group of SPARTAC participants—whether HIV-1 DNA predicted the return of plasma viraemia post-TI . As our previous findings included participants in centres using both 50 and 400 copies/ml as the lower limit of detection for plasma viral load assays , we studied both cut-offs for the HIV-1 DNA analyses . No patients were censored before viral rebound was detected and all were aviraemic  at the point of stopping ART . Levels of Total  HIV-1 DNA at TI predicted time to viral rebound to 400 copies/ml by univariable Cox regression analysis ( HR 2 . In a multivariable Cox regression model including Total HIV-1 DNA and CD4 count , both sampled at the point of TI , only Total HIV-1 DNA significantly predicted time to viral rebound to 400 copies   . When using values from pre-therapy baseline rather than at the time of TI in the model , neither plasma viral load nor CD4 T cell count predicted time to viral rebound  from TI  and  , respectively . Kaplan–Meier survival analyses showed similar results , with a low Total HIV-1 DNA  associated with a slower time to a viral rebound of 400 copies/ml  but not to 50 copies per ml   . HIV-1 DNA at ART interruption predicts time to viral rebound . Survival analyses of time to viral rebound  in participants undertaking TI after 48 weeks of ART . HIV-1 DNA levels are presented divided at the median level into high  and low  . Rebound to 400 HIV-1 RNA copies  is presented for Total  and Integrated  HIV-1 DNA . Rebound to 50 HIV-1 RNA copies  is presented for Total  and Integrated  HIV-1 DNA . 013 It was unclear why Total HIV-1 DNA should predict rebound to 400 copies but not to 50 . In this small post-hoc analysis  , we found that rebound varied according to the HIV-1 DNA level at the time of TI . Patients with high Total HIV-1 DNA levels were more likely to have a first detectable VL greater than 400 copies/ml , whereas those with lower HIV-1 DNA levels were more likely initially to rebound below 400 but above 50 copies/ml   . In summary , we find evidence that HIV-1 DNA is a significant predictor of the duration of viral remission and magnitude of the initial rebound following TI . This , if confirmed in larger studies , would have implications for those designing protocols for ART-reintroduction following viral rebound in TI studies . Since first described nearly two decades ago a persistent reservoir of HIV-1-infected cells remains the main reason that HIV-1 infection cannot be cured  . The simplest measure of the reservoir is a qPCR assay that detects all intracellular HIV-1 DNA regardless of whether it is integrated into host chromosomes or is in unintegrated linear or circular forms . A modification of this assay incorporates an initial step to prime host Alu repeats in order to quantify only viral DNA that has been integrated into host DNA . These assays are open to criticism as the vast majority of intracellular HIV-1 DNA is thought to be replication incompetent , and qPCR is not able to discriminate between replication competent and incompetent viral DNA genomes . This has led to the development of alternative approaches such as viral outgrowth assays  and assays to measure intracellular HIV-1 RNA , which may more accurately reflect an infected cell's ability to produce new virions , especially under conditions where viral transcription is stimulated  . Despite the debate over the biological relevance of measuring HIV-1 DNA—and bearing in mind that none of these assays have been standardised for clinical use–a number of reports have attributed clinical meaning to HIV-1 DNA assays . Over a decade ago Tierney and colleagues suggested that proviral DNA in PBMCs from 111 participants receiving limited nucleoside analogue therapy was an independent predictor of clinical progression , although it is unclear how suppressive the ART regimes were in this study  . Havlir et al studied 100 individuals with chronic HIV-1 infection and viral suppression on ART and showed that HIV-1 DNA independently predicted residual viraemia on ART  . However there has not been a comprehensive analysis of both HIV-1 Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA in individuals randomised to treatment or no treatment soon after seroconversion . We applied both Total and Integrated DNA measures to a unique cohort of individuals with evidence of PHI randomised to immediate interrupted ART or no therapy with longitudinal follow-up for a median of 4 . As participants were randomised to different short course ART therapies prior to TI , we were able to determine how well HIV-1 DNA correlated with accepted surrogate markers of progression such as VL and CD4 count , and also whether HIV-1 DNA was an independent predictor of disease progression within the SPARTAC trial in both treated and untreated participants . Our first finding that HIV-1 DNA associated closely with both plasma VL and CD4 cell counts  was not surprising as this is reported elsewhere  . Our findings that both baseline and pre-TI HIV-1 DNA strongly predicted the trial primary endpoint  are supported by data from other smaller , discrete observational studies , in which low HIV-1 DNA levels associated with a longer time to clinical progression  , a lower viral set point and reduced chance of virological failure on ART re-initiation  at PHI . We are aware of one other report associating HIV-1 DNA with time to viral rebound on stopping ART  . In this study Yerly and colleagues studied chronically-infected individuals with sequential treatment interruptions and reported that DNA was a predictor of the peak of viraemia following therapy cessation and failure to reach undetectable viraemia on re-starting ART–they do not report on the actual duration of viral suppression after TI . In a smaller study at PHI , Lafeuillade et al also associated HIV-1 DNA with time to rebound , however this study is complicated by other interventions such as IL-2 and hydroxyurea in addition to ART  . One possible criticism—and explanation for why plasma VL was less predictive in this study—is that other studies have associated progression with the ‘set-point’ viral load , the value at which the VL stabilizes following the dynamic PHI stage . From a clinical perspective , it is worth noting that if individuals with PHI are commenced on ART immediately , then their ‘set-point’ VL will not be known , potentially placing greater impact on the less dynamic HIV-1 DNA measure . After TI , we observed a period of at least 12 weeks where no significant increases in the HIV-1 reservoir level were detected by both assays  . However , we found little evidence of longer term post-treatment control  , as levels of HIV-1 DNA 1-year after therapy interruption were not significantly different to that seen at pre-therapy baseline . Nevertheless , the potential for there to be a short window period during which plasma viraemia has rebounded but HIV-1 DNA levels have not risen significantly is encouraging , if future closely-monitored TI studies are to be undertaken . It is therefore also re-assuring that in our admittedly small sub-study , re-initiation of ART subsequently restored HIV-1 DNA to pre-TI levels . Finally , a low ‘Total’ HIV-1 reservoir at TI resulted in a longer time to a viral rebound to 400 copies/ml  . In univariable and multivariable Cox regression models Total HIV-1 DNA at TI predicted time to rebound to 400 copies/ml , whereas CD4 T cell count did not  . In contrast to other studies exploring TI , we have a larger and randomly allocated patient group who have received similar durations of ART at PHI and hence can be directly compared . Although viral rebound was observed in all individuals after TI ultimately , this is the first report of a randomised cohort that has shown that time to viral rebound and primary study end point could be predicted by HIV-1 DNA measurement at TI . Our findings of an association with HIV-1 DNA and time to viral rebound raise a number of other questions . Why was Total DNA predictive for rebound to 400 copies/ml but not 50 copies/ml ? Much larger studies will be needed to answer most of these questions , however our sub-analysis of rebounding patients suggested that a high Total DNA at TI was more indicative of a higher VL rebound  , whereas a low DNA level was not associated with a lower rebound . These data might indicate that a Total DNA level at TI is better at predicting the patients who will be quick to rebound rather than those who will maintain suppression . Integrated DNA should be the most biologically relevant marker , based on the assumption that unintegrated HIV-1 DNA forms are thought not to contribute to rebound viraemia . However , the assay for Total HIV-1 DNA is much simpler and with tighter coefficients of variation , possibly due to the lack of a pre-amplification PCR stage . In light of observational cohorts such as VISCONTI  where treatment cessation revealed individuals who remain aviraemic post TI , there is increasing interest in undertaking closely monitored treatment interruption studies in which ART would be re-started based on a detectable plasma VL . These do not , however , have an encouraging history with previous studies set in the context of therapeutic vaccination or CD4 T cell restoration , resulting in rapid viraemic rebound and even harm ( Strategies for Management of Antiretroviral Therapy  Study Group et al . These data are evidence that such an algorithm may be possible , and that a marker as simple as HIV-1 DNA could be an important component . In brief , SPARTAC was an international open Randomised Controlled Trial enrolling adults with PHI within 6 months of a last negative , equivocal or incident HIV-1 test . Participants were randomised to receive ART for 48 weeks  , 12 weeks  or no therapy  . The primary endpoint was a composite of two events: if participants either reached a CD4 count of <350 cells/mm3  or initiated long-term ART . This provided an immunological surrogate of clinical progression , but also allowed inclusion of those participants who commenced ART at CD4 cell counts greater than 350 cells/mm3 . Participants for this sub-study of SPARTAC were those infected with subtype B HIV-1 and for whom adequate samples were available . For those in the analysis of progression and viral rebound at TI , we only selected participants who had viral load suppression  at point of stopping ART  . CD4 T cells isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells  were sampled for HIV-1 DNA in all participants at baseline , regardless of trial arm . Participants randomised to the ART-48 arm were sampled at week 48 at the point of stopping ART and at a further 4 , 12 and 60 weeks post ART interruption  . Cell copy number and total HIV-1 DNA levels were quantified both in triplicate using previously published assays  . Integrated HIV-1 was measured using an assay based on that previously published  but with some minor modifications . Plate to plate variation was assessed using quadruplicate replicates of 8e5 cells , which have one copy of HIV-1 per cell , diluted to 100 copies per well as a first round PCR DNA input . HIV-1 DNA  distributed normally following log10 transformation . The association between Total and Integrated HIV-1 DNA levels was tested using Pearson correlations . Linear regression was used to examine the association between continuous clinical baseline covariates and HIV-1 DNA . For the association between baseline DNA and the SPARTAC primary endpoint , Kaplan–Meier plots and univariable Cox models were constructed , and subsequently adjusted for baseline covariates . Where participants received ART , the time to primary endpoint was calculated from the time of TI . "
"Traditionally , drug dosing is based on a concentration-response relationship estimated in a population . Here , we interrogate the relationship between population-based and individual-based responses to anesthetics in mice and zebrafish . The anesthetic state was assessed by quantifying responses to simple stimuli . Individual responses dynamically fluctuated at a fixed drug concentration . Individual differences in anesthetic sensitivity and stochastic fluctuations in responsiveness complicate the ability to appropriately dose anesthetics to each individual . Identifying the biological substrate of noise , however , may spur novel therapies , assure consistent drug responses , and encourage the shift from population-based to personalized medicine . Traditionally , dosing decisions are based on the relationship between drug concentration and the magnitude of effect observed in a population expressed as the sigmoidal dose-response curve  . For many drug classes such as antiepileptics , anesthetics , and antiarrhythmics , the response is binary at the level of an individual—the desired effect is either present or not  . The population-based dose-response curve , in contrast , is a smooth graded function of drug concentration . Therefore , in order to deliver on the promise of optimal drug dosing at the individual level , the relationship between individual binary responses and the population-based graded estimates of drug potency have to be more rigorously defined  . Many examples of graded population-level responses co-existing with discrete , binary individual responses are seen in biophysics . For instance , stochastic forces influence differentiation patterns across identical cells and give rise to drastically different proteomic responses of clonal cancer cells to drugs  . Thus , stochastic fluctuations among discrete states even in a constant environment are the rule at the microscopic level in many , if not all , biological processes . Detailed quantitative models of stochastic switching between different states of an individual molecule  are required to forge the relationship between discrete microscopic events and graded responses in the population . Macroscopic constructs such as pharmacologic efficacy depend upon drug-induced changes in discrete states of single molecules as well as stochastic switches among them . Thus , while discrete responses at the individual level can be linked to the smooth population-level responses using techniques from statistical mechanics , individual responses cannot be readily inferred from population-level analyses . Here , we asked whether stochastic fluctuations among discrete states , similar to those postulated to act at the level of individual molecules , organelles , and cells influence the responses of intact multicellular organisms exposed to a constant drug concentration . At lower anesthetic doses that produce light sedation , a patient can respond to salient verbal commands and less noticeable auditory commands  , albeit with longer latency . We consequently studied binary responses to a simple stimulus at a fixed anesthetic concentration across individuals to determine whether they are anesthetized or not . The concentration of anesthetic at which 50% of patient lose their ability to respond to verbal commands is known at MAC-awake  . MAC-awake and the EC50 for loss of RR are closely correlated across mechanistically distinct anesthetics  . Discrete responses to simple stimuli can be used in other organisms such as larval zebrafish to assess anesthetic potency  . In contrast to discrete measures used in individual subjects , anesthetic potency at a population level is expressed as a smooth sigmoid function  . Traditionally , the dichotomy between the graded population-level response on the one hand , and the binary responses of individuals on the other , has been interpreted as inter-subject variability  . Finally , it is possible that the probability of response is influenced by the state of the subject at the moment when the stimulus is applied  . To distinguish among these possibilities , we exposed both mice and zebrafish to fixed concentrations of two mechanistically distinct anesthetics and repeatedly tested their responsiveness . The results unequivocally demonstrate that at a fixed drug concentration , each individual mouse or zebrafish stochastically switches between being responsive and unresponsive . Unlike identical ion channel molecules , however , individual animals both in highly genetically inbred and across outbred populations exhibited dramatic variability in parameters that describe the stochastic switching between the responsive and unresponsive states . The inter-individual variability in parameters of the stochastic model fit to each individual was highly structured in both mice and in zebrafish . One manifestation of this structure is that while the overall sensitivity to anesthetics varied among individuals , the amount of noise that drives state switches was the same across individuals exposed to the same anesthetic concentration . As a result of the inter-subject variability and stochastic intra-subject fluctuations in responsiveness , the population-level concentration response cannot be used to reliably determine the probability that any given individual will  be anesthetized . Detailed quantification of stochastic forces that shape the within-subject fluctuations in responsiveness and between-subject variability lays the foundation for the construction of more informative stochastic models that can reconcile binary responses of individual organisms with population-based measures of drug potency . Instead , in every mouse , the outcome of the RR test fluctuated over time at a fixed anesthetic concentration  while the population response probability at 0 . Individual fluctuations in RR at concentrations deviating from EC50 were less frequent , but nevertheless were reliably observed at concentrations below 0 . In an analogous experiment using a mechanistically distinct anesthetic , propofol , we determined the responsiveness in larval zebrafish using the startle reflex  triggered by mechanical stimulation . Zebrafish exposed to no propofol had a significantly higher response probability to the tap stimulus  . The response probability across the population remained constant  for three hours after an initial hour of equilibration in 3 μM propofol  . Effective concentration , defined as the concentration of the drug required to produce an effect of a given intensity , is a universally used population-based measure of drug potency  . At the individual level , effective concentration is equivalent to the average across-trial probability of observing a response to a stimulus at a given drug concentration . Therefore , we compared the experimental results in Figure 2A and C to simulations of a Bernoulli process  constructed such that the probability of positive RR  was identical on each trial and the same as that observed experimentally for a population  . In mice for instance , this simulation was constructed such that the probability of responding to a stimulus is 44% on every trial . The median response probability in simulations was not statistically different from experimental observations in both mice  and in zebrafish  . To further quantify this resistance to state transitions , we compared the probability of becoming unresponsive after responding to a stimulus on a previous trial , P   , to the probability of failing to respond on two consecutive trials , P   . 0001 ) , the probability of being unresponsive on the next trial was significantly higher if the animal was found to be unresponsive on the preceding trial . Hence , fluctuations in responsiveness under constant anesthetic concentration are inconsistent with a Bernoulli process . Therefore , while effective concentration is a useful measure of population-based drug potency , it cannot be adequately applied to an individual . In an apparent departure from this assumption , we observed high inter-individual variability in responsiveness in mice and in zebrafish . 6% isoflurane some mice were able to right themselves on fewer than 20% of trials , while other mice within the same highly inbred population , exposed to the same anesthetic concentration , during the same experiment , were able to right themselves on ~70% of trials  . Rather , anesthetic sensitivity can differ significantly between individuals . We then sought to determine how inter-individual variability is reflected in the parameters of a model of trial-to-trial fluctuations in responsiveness fit to each animal individually  . The dwell times in responsive and unresponsive states for both mice  and zebrafish  were approximately exponential . Thus , switching between states of responsiveness and unresponsiveness in each individual can be well approximated by a two-state transition probability matrix  . Because the sum of transition probabilities in each row of this matrix is exactly one , the two-state transition probability matrix is completely specified by knowing the two transition probabilities along the diagonal , P  and P  . The plane spanned by these two diagonal transition probabilities , therefore , is the parameter space for models of stochastic fluctuations in responsiveness in mice and in zebrafish  . Moving along the dotted lines within the parameter space does not affect the overall probability of being responsive – that is systems II and III have the same overall probability of response . The key difference between II and III is the number of transitions between the responsive and the unresponsive state . As a result , while the overall probability of responsiveness in I and IV is different , the amount of noise that drives state transitions between the responsive and the unresponsive states is the same . To realize why this is the case , we can visualize the two-by-two transition probability matrix as an energy landscape with two wells which correspond to the responsive and the unresponsive states  . To characterize inter-individual variability , we estimated transition probability matrices for each animal individually . The simplest model of inter-individual variability is that the transition probability matrix , M , for each individual is a random sample taken independently from the distribution of P  and P  . Yet , in stark departure from this prediction , the observed joint distribution of transition probabilities in individual mice lies on a diagonal  . A similar strong negative correlation is observed when comparing decay rates of the responsive and unresponsive states estimated from individual dwell time distributions fit to single exponential decay functions  . The fact that their sum is constant across individuals implies that the amount of noise that drives state transitions between responsive and unresponsive states was consistent in all individuals exposed to a fixed anesthetic concentration . Yet , sensitivity to anesthetics measured as the overall probability of responding to a stimulus varied broadly in the same population of individuals . Altogether these results indicate that , while transitions between states of responsiveness are noise-driven and therefore unpredictable , the amount of noise is tightly controlled in all individuals . Too little noise would result in individuals being trapped in a single state , whereas too much noise would overpower the intrinsic dynamics of the brain , leading to a noise dominated process characterized by rapid state switching . Sigmoid dose-response curves are one-to-one functions—knowing drug concentration is sufficient to estimate probability of a response in a population . Critically , the converse is also true; knowing the probability of a response in a population is sufficient to determine the concentration of the drug to which this population is exposed . While this one-to-one relationship may hold for a population , we sought to determine whether the large inter-individual variability  complicates this one-to-one relationship at the level of an individual . We compared individual transition probability matrices estimated at 0 . 6% isoflurane , exhibited strong negative correlations  between the diagonal elements of the transition probability matrices  . At the level of the population , there were statistically significant differences between righting probability observed at the two anesthetic concentrations  . 3% isoflurane over a large range of individual anesthetic sensitivities  . This observation is in stark contrast to the population-based measures of anesthetic potency . Hill slopes of the population-based dose-response curves for anesthetics are some of the steepest among clinically useful drugs  . Thus , small increases in drug concentration are expected to result in a dramatic change in the probability that an individual will be anesthetized . Because results in Figure 6 were obtained in two separate cohorts of mice each exposed to a single anesthetic concentration , we sought to determine whether it is possible to reliably infer drug concentration from behavioral responses for the same individual exposed to two drug concentrations . Overlap of response probabilities at the population level between different isoflurane concentrations did exist  , but was approximately three times smaller than that observed across separate mouse cohorts exposed to 0 . Thus , observing the same individual exposed to different drug concentrations , improves the reliability of distinguishing between drug concentrations on the basis of righting probability . Comparing different , albeit highly genetically similar individuals , exposed to different isoflurane concentrations increases the response variability and therefore decreases the reliability of classification . In Figures 4 and 6 , we observe a strong negative correlation between the two conditional probabilities that express the tendency of staying in the previously observed state ( P  and P  ) . The Markov process defined by a two-state transition probability matrix can be thought of as a discrete approximation of a continuous system that fluctuates stochastically between two stable states . While the amount of noise changes the frequency of switching between the two states  , it does not have a dramatic effect on the shape of the overall distribution of states . To model the effects of anesthetics on different individuals , we assume that anesthetics activate sleep-active β neurons and inhibit wake-active α neurons . Thus , individual differences in anesthetic sensitivity can be modeled by modulating the anesthetic effect on the network . We then approximate the data of the kind seen in Figure 8C obtained for different anesthetic sensitivities and noise levels using a Markov model akin to that deployed for analysis of righting and startle reflex throughout this work . To accomplish this , the continuous fluctuations in the state of the network are binarized using a threshold  into the ‘responsive’ and the ‘unresponsive’ states . These simulations support our conjecture that while individuals are different in terms of anesthetic sensitivity , the amount of noise that drives fluctuations between the responsive and the unresponsive states is conserved . Thus , in units of seconds , mice dwelled signficantly longer in the awake and the unresponsive state than zebrafish . Here , we demonstrate that even when an animal is exposed to a fixed drug concentration , its response fluctuates stochastically . The probability of response depends on the state of the animal at the moment of stimulation . Specifically , the fluctuations exhibit inertia – the animal is more likely to be stuck in its current state than to transition between states of responsiveness . In contrast to most drugs that are administered either intravenously or orally , the route of administration of many anesthetics is inhalational . We utilize this significant experimental advantage to focus on the dynamics of responses within each individual at a constant drug concentration . However , stochastic fluctuations are not unique to a volatile anesthetic . An intravenous anesthetic , propofol , administered to zebrafish equilibrated with a fixed concentration bath , was also associated with dynamic fluctuations in responsiveness . The stochastic processes that govern the fluctuations observed under two mechanistically distinct anesthetics were remarkably similar between mice and zebrafish . It is curious to note that while the dwell times in the responsive and the unresponsive state in mice and in zebrafish were similarly correlated , the absolute duration of these states varied signficantly between mice and zebrafish . The duration of responsive and unresponsive states was approximately similar to the duration of sleep episodes in these two species  . It is possible that this relationship between duration of sleep episodes and the duration of the episodes of unresponsiveness arises because similar neurobiological mechanisms are responsible for both transitions between sleep and wakefulness and fluctuations between the responsive and the unresponsive states observed under anesthesia . Our observations of stochastic switching between responsive and unresponsive states are consistent with previous findings showing that at a fixed anesthetic concentration , spectral characteristics of electrical activity within thalamocortical networks switch stochastically between several discrete activity patterns  . Stabilization of neuronal dynamics may contribute to the behavioral inertia observed in fluctuations in responsiveness of both mice and zebrafish . This resistance to state transitions may contribute  to anesthetic hysteresis  – a left-shift in a dose-response curve for emergence relative to induction of anesthesia that has been observed across taxa from Drosophila to humans . Stochastic responses at a fixed drug concentration help explain several otherwise puzzling phenomena in clinical anesthesiology . On the one hand , Hill slopes of dose-response curves for anesthetics are reported between 10 and 40  ; some of the steepest of the clinically used drugs . However , even episodes of awareness associated with recall and high risk of developing post-traumatic stress disorder  are not reliably detected by the existing EEG-based monitors of anesthetic state  . While anesthetics are thought to impart dose-dependent effects on neuronal activity  , only weak correlations are observed between EEG characteristics and anesthetic concentration  . Indeed , both inter-individual differences  and fluctuations of EEG measures of depth of anesthesia at a constant drug concentration  obscure the relationship between drug concentration and the observed state of the EEG . It is likely that the traditional population-based approach of estimating the relationship between the concentration of the drug and the response dramatically under-represents the within and inter-subject variability . The repeated testing of each animal under a fixed drug concentration is more akin to the clinical scenario where the patient is exposed to many surgical stimuli that can elicit stochastic fluctuations in the level of consciousness . This relative decrease in Hill slope reflects high inter-individual variability and stochastic fluctuations in each individual . In contrast , here we measured anesthetic responsiveness after a two-hour equilibration time . Thus , one reason for the discrepancy between our Hill slope estimate and that published previously is that our analysis assures that the population of animals is at a behavioral steady state . In order to reliably anesthetize an individual after a short exposure , higher concentrations of anesthetics are necessary . The detailed mechanism of these stochastic fluctuations is not known as anesthetics exert effects on many molecular targets distributed broadly throughout the brain and spinal cord . A number of lines of evidence converge on the fact that anesthetics at least in part hijack the sleep-wake circuitry by exciting sleep-promoting and inhibiting wake-promoting neurons  . Once sufficient noise is added , however , the system will stochastically switch between consolidated states of sleep and wakefulness . Theoretical investigations of bistable neuronal networks suggest that activity within such mutually inhibitory neuronal populations can be well approximated by a diffusion on an energy landscape with two potential wells; one for each stable activity pattern  . Anesthetics can therefore be thought of as stabilizing  the wells associated with unresponsiveness and de-stabilizing the wells associated with wakefulness . The degree to which these states are stabilized by clinically relevant doses of anesthetics is apparently insufficient to consistently keep all animals in the anesthetized state . Thus , it is likely that stochastic fluctuations between distinct responses observed under constant drug concentration are not unique to anesthetics . Thus , it is not clear from behavioral observations of RR alone , whether the underlying processes that give rise to a response on a RR trial are continuous or discrete . We observed that dwell times in both the responsive and the unresponsive state are well-approximated by a single exponential distribution . The two state Markov model used to analyze behavioral responses , can be seen as a natural discretization of the continuous bistable system exemplified by our modeling approach . In some ways , our observations of stochastic switching between different states at a fixed drug concentration are similar to those well known for single receptor molecules  . At the molecular scale , differences between receptors are largely immaterial—the same stochastic model can be used to describe state transitions in all receptors of a particular kind . Within intact multicellular organisms , in contrast , we show that the transition probabilities were significantly different amongst highly genetically similar  and genetically outbred individuals exposed to the same anesthetic concentration . Observation of one individual on many trials does not equate to observing a population of individuals . Indeed , at population level EC50 , some animals were three times as likely to be responsive as other individuals from the same population . The inter-individual variability in the transition probabilities that govern switching between responsive and unresponsive states was constrained such that the sum of the diagonal elements was a constant . The fact that the trace is approximately the same in all individuals under similar experimental conditions implies that the spectral gap of the 2 × 2 transition probability matrix defined as , λ1−λ2 , where λn is the nth eigenvalue is also a constant conserved among individuals . In a clear departure from the predictions made by the population-level dose-response curve , our findings indicate that the equilibrium probability of responding to a stimulus at a given drug concentration is different for distinct individuals . This strongly implies that the noise which drives state transitions between responsive and unresponsive states is tightly biologically controlled . Because of the strong influence of stochastic forces , it does not appear possible to keep a subject reliably in an anesthetized state without exposing them to the potentially dangerous high concentrations of anesthetics associated with subsequently impaired cognition  . Yet , the fact that variability in transition probabilities is constrained offers a possible novel avenue for improvement by developing therapies specifically aimed at state stabilization . Selective stabilization of the unconscious state could provide a solution to minimize the risk of spontaneously shifting into a brain state where awareness is possible , without requiring drug concentrations prone to adverse effects . For instance , interference with orexinergic signaling destabilizes both sleep and wake states thereby increasing the frequency of spontaneous transitions between sleep and wakefulness  . Detailed investigation of the synergy between anesthetics and modification of noise inherent in neuronal networks that control sleep and wakefulness may help develop novel therapies that will allow clinicians better control over the state of each individual patient . As tolerance to repeated isoflurane exposures does not occur  , mice were exposed to each isoflurane concentration a total of four times over the course of 3 weeks . A mouse was considered to have an intact righting reflex if it was able to restore its upright posture twice in a row after being turned on its back by rotating the anesthetic chamber without interrupting anesthetic delivery . In total , 160 RR assessments were performed on each mouse at each anesthetic concentration . Markov models relate the state of the system at time t to the state of the system observed at the previous time step t − 1 , as Xt = MX t−1 , where the 2x2 transition probability matrix , M , constructed as shown below is the fundamental quantity of interest . M= In the above matrix , a denotes the probability that the mouse determined to be responsive on trial one will stay responsive on the next trial . b denotes the probability that an animal found to be unresponsive on trial one will stay unresponsive on the next behavioral assessment . Note that because the sum of probabilities in a row of M must be 1 , probabilities of transitions between the awake and the anesthetized state are completely determined by finding a and b in a system with just two states . The simplest possibility is that the probability of being in a particular state at time t is the same for all trials   . By definition , a Bernoulli process is a stochastic process in which the probability of a given outcome  is the same for every trial . For a given effective concentration , ec , computed as the overall probability of positive RR or SR , the Bernoulli process can be expressed as the following transition probability matrix . For the purposes of simulations , we experimentally determined drug potency as the average response probability across all RR or SR trials and simulated the Bernoulli process given by Mb . To test the hypothesis that behavioral observations exhibit inertia or resistance to state transitions , we compared the observed probability of state transitions , P  +P  P  +P  +P  +P  , in the observed and the simulated time series . As an additional test of adequacy for describing experimentally observed time series by a Bernoulli process , we compared the tendency of the system to stay in the unresponsive state , P  , to probability of becoming unresponsive after being responsive on the previous trial , P  . The transition probability matrix for a two-state Markov process has two free parameters . A transition probability matrix estimated for each specific individual can therefore be represented by a point on a plane spanned by the diagonal elements of the matrix . Principal component analysis  was used to capture the maximal inter-individual variance between transition probability matrices . To determine whether the transition probability matrix is a consistent trait of each individual animal , we determined the correlation in position of each individual along the first principal component  across time . To quantify how reliably the drug concentration can be inferred from the observed behavioral responses of each individual , we applied Bayes’ theorem:P  =P  P  P  This analysis was performed to determine how reliably one can distinguish between exposures to 0 . 3% isoflurane were from two separate populations , we wanted to further investigate whether it is possible to infer drug concentration from behavioral responses within an individual exposed to two drug concentrations . Here , the collective trials at each concentration were pooled together for each individual  , and a bootstrap resampling technique with replacement was used to generate a response probability distribution for each concentration for each individual mouse . Probability distribution functions were then fit to each mouse’s bootstrapped response probabilities for both isoflurane concentrations . At the population level , response probability distributions were computed based on average response probabilities for each animal , and overlap was computed in a similar fashion . The population response probabilities observed in Figure 2B and Figure 2—figure supplement 1 suggest a shallower dose-response as compared to previously published population-based dose-response curves  . In order to compute the aggregate dose-response , we fit sigmoid curves to jackknifed subsamples across all tested isoflurane concentrations . Data from one animal at each concentration was removed for each subsample , and the remaining subset of data was fitted to a sigmoidal curve:1−R=11+  Hwhere R is the righting probability , Iso is the isoflurane concentration and the two paramters EC50 and H are the half-maximal effect concentration and the Hill slope respectively . To add the effects of anesthetics we modified this function as follows  E  =x2  +i  2+   2where i is the anesthetic concentration i ∈  in arbitrary units . Note that in this equation , the effect of anesthetic on stabilizing the anesthetized state is proportional to that destabilizing the awake state . To compare simulations to our experimental results on RR and SR modeled using a two-state Markov process , we binarized x such that x > 0 was classified as ‘anesthetized’ and x ≤ 0 was classified as ‘awake’ . This binary time series was modeled by a two-state transition probability matrix using the same methods as for the analysis of the RR and SR . The results of these simulations for different anesthetic concentrations and σ’s is shown in Figure 8D . Steady state population response probabilities were confirmed through Pearson correlation coefficient analysis between the trial index and the response probability averaged across animals . The Brown-Forsythe test for equal variances was used to compare variability in simulated and experimental response probabilities . "
"Visual speed is believed to be underestimated at low contrast , which has been proposed as an explanation of excessive driving speed in fog . Combining psychophysics measurements and driving simulation , we confirm that speed is underestimated when contrast is reduced uniformly for all objects of the visual scene independently of their distance from the viewer . However , we show that when contrast is reduced more for distant objects , as is the case in real fog , visual speed is actually overestimated , prompting drivers to decelerate . Using an artificial anti-fog—that is , fog characterized by better visibility for distant than for close objects , we demonstrate for the first time that perceived speed depends on the spatial distribution of contrast over the visual scene rather than the global level of contrast per se . Our results cast new light on how reduced visibility conditions affect perceived speed , providing important insight into the human visual system . These studies have shown that the perceived speed of two-dimensional moving objects—for example , plaid patterns on a computer screen—is underestimated when visual contrast is reduced . More recent studies based on driving scenarios have suggested that the underestimation of visual speed at low contrast applies also to perceived self-motion in three-dimensional environments  . This finding was proposed—and is still considered—as a possible explanation for excessive driving speed in fog . In the abovementioned studies , and more generally in all studies having assessed the effect of visual contrast on motion perception , contrast was reduced uniformly for all objects of the visual scene , irrespective of their distance from the observer . While uniform contrast reduction is a valid model to assess the perception of two-dimensional patterns moving on a computer screen , it is a poor model to investigate how an atmospheric phenomenon like fog affects motion perception in three-dimensional environments . Specifically , fog alters visual contrast because tiny water droplets suspended in the air are interposed between the observer and the surrounding objects . As a consequence , the contrast of the visual scene decreases with distance , and visibility is better for close than for distant objects . Therefore , the distance-dependent attenuation of contrast experienced in fog is obviously very different from the uniform reduction traditionally adopted in vision research . Here , we tested the perceptual and behavioural effects of distance-dependent contrast reduction—that is , fog—on speed perception . We compared these effects with those of the distance-independent—that is , uniform—contrast reduction that has been used in previous studies to simulate fog  . In the first experiment , we used a standard psychophysical procedure to test how contrast affects perceived visual speed . One of the scenes  had clear visibility and moved at one of three target speeds  . The other scene  had either clear or reduced visibility , and its speed was adjusted for each trial using a Bayesian adaptive method  . Therefore , PSEs higher than the actual speed of the reference scene indicated speed underestimation , whereas PSEs lower than the speed of the reference scene indicated speed overestimation . Before each test session , the drivers performed a training phase in which a numerical feedback indicated the driving speed when it did not match the target speed  . In addition , at the beginning of each test trial , the scene was shown for 7 s moving at target speed with clear visibility  . 003 The contrast of the scene was reduced either in a distance-dependent manner , as would happen in natural fog , or in a distance-independent manner , as has been done in previous experiments . In total , the experiment consisted of five visibility conditions: clear  , moderate and severe fog  , moderate and severe uniform reduction  . Distance-independent contrast reduction  : visibility drops equally for all objects of the visual scene , irrespective of their distance from the observer  . Distance-dependent contrast reduction  : visibility is good for close objects , and worsens as distance from the observer increases  . Reversed distance-dependent contrast reduction  : visibility is poor for close objects , and improves as distance from the observer increases  . 004 Reducing the contrast of the visual scene altered speed perception  . Specifically , when contrast reduction depended on distance , participants matched lower speeds  to the perceived speed under clear visibility  . This indicates that natural fog led to an overestimation of speed  . Conversely , when visibility was reduced in a distance-independent manner , higher speeds  were matched to the perceived speed under clear visibility . Mean perceived driving speed across subjects as a function of visibility: for each subject , PSE values were averaged across the three target speeds  , then perceived speed was calculated using the following equation: Speedperceived = PSEclear + PSEclear × ln  . As compared to clear visibility  , speed was overestimated with distance-dependent visibility reduction  and underestimated with distance-independent visibility reduction  . Mean produced driving speed across subjects as a function of visibility: for each subject , measured speed values were averaged across the three target speeds . As compared to their driving speed with clear visibility  , drivers drove slower with distance-dependent visibility reduction  and faster with distance-independent visibility reduction  . 005 Reducing visibility also affected speed discrimination sensitivity  , which was significantly lower  in the two conditions in which visibility was reduced in a distance-independent manner  , as compared to the other three conditions that did not differ from one another  . This indicates that the participants had more difficulties estimating the driving speed when visibility reduction was independent of distance . This reduction of speed discrimination sensitivity might result from the fact that distance-independent contrast alteration is seldom encountered in real life . Ten experienced drivers who did not participate in the first experiment were instructed to drive at target speeds with either clear or reduced visibility . The visibility conditions and target speeds were the same as in experiment 1 . In a preliminary training phase , drivers learned to reach and maintain each target speed with clear visibility  . In the test phase , drivers freely controlled their driving speed with the gas pedal , and pressed a button when thinking they were driving at target speed  . To refresh drivers' memory , the scene was shortly presented moving at the target speed with clear visibility at the beginning of each trial . Driving speed was affected by the contrast of the visual scene  . As compared to clear visibility  , the participants drove significantly slower with distance-dependent contrast reduction  , but faster with distance-independent reduction  . The five visibility conditions differed significantly from one another  , and the same pattern was observed for all three target speeds . These behavioural results are consistent with the perceptual results of the first experiment and can be interpreted as follows: distance-dependent contrast reduction induces an overestimation of visual speed that prompts drivers to drive slower , whereas distance-independent contrast reduction evokes an underestimation of visual speed , prompting drivers to drive faster . The results of the first two experiments highlight that the distance-dependent contrast reduction experienced in fog evokes perceptual and behavioural effects that are radically opposite to those resulting from the distance-independent contrast reduction traditionally adopted in vision research . Yet , what are the perceptual mechanisms underlying speed overestimation in fog ? In fog , visibility—that is , contrast—is reduced with distance . Therefore , when the driver looks straight ahead , the regions of better visibility in the proximity of the vehicle are typically viewed in peripheral vision , whereas the distant regions where visibility is impaired fall in the centre of the driver's visual field  . A similar phenomenon could explain why speed is overestimated in fog , that is , when contrast is reduced in a distance-dependent manner . More specifically , speed overestimation in fog could result from the relative contrast between the central and peripheral areas of the visual field . To test this hypothesis , we created an anti-fog , that is , a distance-dependent contrast reduction characterized by an increase of visibility with distance  . With anti-fog , visibility was better for distant than for close objects , that is , visibility was good for the portion of road situated at a distance ahead , and poor for the direct surroundings of the vehicle . In other words , normal fog and anti-fog resulted in opposite spatial distributions of contrast over the visual scene , although the global contrast reduction was the same for both fog types . We hypothesized that if the relative contrast between central and peripheral areas of the visual field underlies the speed overestimation observed with fog , then speed should be underestimated with the anti-fog . In the third experiment , we used the same psychophysical procedure as in the first experiment to compare the effect of natural fog and anti-fog on perceived speed . Ten experienced drivers who had not participated in the first two experiments were presented with pairs of driving scenes and instructed to estimate which scene moved faster  . Three visibility conditions were used: clear , fog , and anti-fog . Only one target speed was used  as the first two experiments revealed the same pattern of results for all three target speeds . As shown in Figure 4A , perceived speed depended on visibility  . With fog , lower speeds  were matched to the perceived speed with clear visibility  , whereas higher speeds were matched to it with anti-fog  . Therefore , as compared to clear visibility , the scenes were perceived as moving faster with fog  and slower with anti-fog  . Visibility also affected speed discrimination sensitivity  . This indicates that estimating driving speed was more difficult in the anti-fog condition , which likely results from the completely artificial nature of this type of contrast reduction . In that respect , it is interesting to mention that reduced speed discrimination performance was observed with both unusual types of contrast reduction , namely anti-fog here and uniform contrast reduction in the first experiment . Opposite effects of fog and anti-fog . Mean perceived driving speed across subjects as a function of visibility: Perceived speed was calculated from the measured PSEs using the following equation: Speedperceived = PSEclear + PSEclear × ln  . As compared to clear visibility  , speed was overestimated when visibility was better for close than for distant objects , that is , in fog  , and underestimated when visibility was better for distant than for close objects , that is , anti-fog  . Mean produced driving speed across subjects as a function of visibility: As compared to their driving speed with clear visibility  , drivers drove slower when visibility was better for close than for distant objects , that is , in fog  , and faster when visibility was better for distant than for close objects , that is , anti-fog  . 006 The same 10 participants took part in a fourth experiment where they were instructed to drive at target speeds with either clear or reduced visibility  . This experiment aimed to compare the effects of fog and anti-fog on produced driving speed . The visibility and speed conditions were identical to those used in experiment 3 . Driving speed was affected by visibility  . Specifically , as compared to clear visibility  , participants drove slower with fog  and faster with anti-fog  . Visibility also affected the variability of driving speed  , which was twice as large in the anti-fog condition  as in the other two conditions that did not differ from one another  . Previous studies suggested that the speed of visual motion in depth is underestimated when the global level of contrast is reduced  . These studies were directly inspired by classical vision research experiments that assessed the effect of contrast on the perceived speed of two-dimensional objects on a monitor  . In the present study , we reproduced this perceptual bias , showing that visual speed is indeed underestimated when contrast is reduced in a distance-independent manner . In particular , we demonstrate here for the first time that an identical global loss of visibility can evoke opposite percepts , depending on the nature of the underlying visual contrast reduction . Therefore , contrarily to what has been consistently reported in previous studies , a global contrast reduction can also lead to an overestimation of visual speed . This is notably the case when contrast is not reduced uniformly for all objects of the visual scene but varies according to their distance from the viewer . For instance , in fog , contrast reduction is more important for distant than for close objects . This generates a distance-dependent visibility gradient between the peripheral and central area of the visual field . Our results show that in this situation , perceived speed is not determined by the global level of contrast per se , but rather by the spatial distribution of contrast over the visual scene . More specifically , perceived speed is determined by the relative contrast between the central and peripheral areas of the visual field . When visibility is better in the peripheral than in the central visual field , as is the case in fog , speed is overestimated . Inverting the direction of the contrast gradient with anti-fog and thereby obscuring more the peripheral than the central region of the visual field , inverts the perceptual bias such that speed is now underestimated . This highlights the critical role of the visibility gradient in perceived speed , explaining why speed is unexpectedly overestimated in fog despite a global reduction of visibility . Specifically , speed overestimation systematically prompted drivers to drive slower , whereas speed underestimation led to faster driving paces . This demonstrates that driving speed is strongly affected by perceived visual speed . Yet , one could argue that at a ‘pure’ perceptual level , objects next to the road can also contribute to increase peripheral visual flow , thereby altering perceived speed . Specifically , in the ‘clear visibility’ condition , participants estimated visual speed with great accuracy . In addition , the variability of speed estimates was small  in all conditions , and even more with clear visibility . For instance , the observation that MT neurons tuned to high speeds are strongly activated by slow stimuli at low contrast  would predict speed overestimation at low contrast . Such a bias towards slow speed is precisely what is proposed by Bayesian models of speed perception  . Specifically , these models rely on the assumption that speed ‘measurements’ are intrinsically noisy , and that based on our everyday experience , slower motions are more likely to occur than faster ones—resulting in an elevated prior for slow speeds . Whereas Bayesian models of speed perception can accurately predict speed underestimation at low contrast  , speed overestimation observed at higher speeds  and at low luminance  are more difficult to account for . However , none of the abovementioned models addressed situations in which the amount of contrast reduction differed for different areas of the moving visual scene , as is the case when driving in fog . In that respect , these models do not explain the differences in speed perception observed here with uniform and distance-dependent contrast reduction . We show here for the first time how fog biases speed perception , and we reveal the perceptual mechanisms underlying this bias , providing important insights into the human visual system . In particular , we show that contrarily to what was previously believed , speed is overestimated in fog because visibility is poorer in the central than in the peripheral area of the visual field . The sky consisted of a homogenous grey texture with the same colour of the fog and the plane used for the uniform contrast reduction  . Visual contrast was reduced by blending the fog colour  into the virtual scene , according to the alpha blending model Cr = Co α + Cf  , where , for each pixel of the projected image , Cr is the resulting colour , Co is the original colour , Cf is the colour of the fog , and α is the blending factor . For the distance-dependent contrast reduction , the blending factor was determined by e−f·d , where f is the density of the fog and d is the distance from the observer to the depicted object . The function was determined in two phases:  a plane model with uniform colour  was displayed on the screen facing the observer , and luminance was measured on its surface with a Minolta LS-100 photometer  for several brightness levels;  the readings of the photometer were plotted against the corresponding brightness and fitted  by a quadratic function that was then used to compute the luminance distribution of the scene for each visibility condition . The blending factor was set to 1 − e−af·d , where af is the density of anti-fog , which was adjusted to match the overall scene contrast of the fog condition  . "
"Planarians regenerate all body parts after injury , including the central nervous system  . We capitalized on this distinctive trait and completed a gene expression-guided functional screen to identify factors that regulate diverse aspects of neural regeneration in Schmidtea mediterranea . We also identified genes that encode signaling molecules with roles in head regeneration , including some that are produced in a previously uncharacterized parenchymal population of cells . Finally , we explored genes downregulated during planarian regeneration and characterized , for the first time , glial cells in the planarian CNS that respond to injury by repressing several transcripts . Collectively , our studies revealed diverse molecules and cell types that underlie an animal’s ability to regenerate its brain . An improved understanding of brain regeneration holds the potential to stimulate new therapies geared toward the treatment of stroke , neurological disease , and brain injury . Brain regeneration , as a process , must occur through several interrelated steps: wound signaling and healing; production of new cells by proliferation , dedifferentiation or transdifferentiation; specification of cell lineages of the proper type  and ratio  ; organization of new cells in three-dimensional space; differentiation of precursors; reestablishment of connections required for functional restoration; and , finally , cessation of regeneration to avoid overgrowth or damage to nearby healthy tissue . The advent of mammalian stem cell-based approaches and advances in cell reprogramming enabled the creation of new , often functional , neurons in vitro  . Additionally , the discovery of endogenous stem cell pools in the mammalian brain  raises the possibility of enhancing the brain’s ability to create new neurons from within  . Despite these advances , functional repair in the human CNS remains an extremely ambitious goal and requires the development of new therapies aimed not only at generation of new cells , but also placing and integrating these cells appropriately within a broader regenerative context . To understand how the cell biological processes of regeneration are regulated and coordinated , we look to organisms that successfully regenerate in nature . Of the small number of animals that regenerate their brains after injury , planarians have emerged as a tractable model system in which to study this remarkable process . Scientists have appreciated the extreme capacity for regeneration found in planarians for over two hundred years  . A nascent brain structure appears soon after amputation  and reproducible brain wiring is indicated by full functional recovery , with resumed movement and feeding after one week  . Anatomical studies have revealed details of the structure and molecular complexity of the planarian central nervous system  , which consists of bi-lobed cephalic ganglia  and two ventral nerve cords  . The planarian brain is composed of a diverse array of neural subtypes that produce conserved neurotransmitters and dozens of neuropeptides  . These cell types are regionally organized , with subtypes of cells appearing medially or in lateral structures called brain branches that project toward the margin of the head  . Planarians also regenerate missing brain tissue regardless of the amputation plane or the severity of the injury to the CNS  . A transcriptional view of planarian head regeneration . Diagrams depicting the overall organization of the planarian CNS  and the principal cell types known to play roles in brain regeneration  . A Venn diagram depicts the 933 contigs upregulated during head regeneration compared to cut controls  . Pie charts showing the proportion of genes upregulated at each time point  that are also upregulated when compared to uninjured  animals  . Pie chart showing the percentage of upregulated genes with neural expression patterns . Of these , 47% had expression in the central nervous system—132 genes with expression in the brain and 38 with expression in a subset of CNS cells . Examples of expression patterns  are shown for genes expressed in the CNS alone , in the CNS and other tissues  , and in neural subsets . Time courses using immunofluorescence and ISH to illustrate the timing of events in head regeneration . Neural gene expression initiates at around 36 hr  and becomes stronger at 2 d post-amputation . Expression patterns of genes upregulated during head regeneration . For each gene in the cluster , the mean expression across the five conditions is set to zero and relative expression is calculated for each experiment . Each bar represents the average gene expression relative to the mean for that time point , with one unit representing one standard deviation from the mean across time points . 63/362 upregulated genes  are expressed during homeostasis in the parenchyma of the planarian body . Examples of genes with the aforementioned gene expression patterns are shown . 005 In the past two decades , the introduction of molecular techniques and availability of genomic and transcriptomic data  have enabled great progress in understanding the molecular underpinnings of planarian regeneration . The regenerative ability of planarians depends on a pool of stem cells called neoblasts , at least some of which are pluripotent  . This stem cell pool is heterogeneous  and stem cells respond to injury by migrating , proliferating , and producing daughter cells that differentiate to replace all cell types of the body  . Specifically , anterior cues  inhibit posterior Wnt ligands to enable head and brain regeneration  . Planarian brain regeneration requires stem cell activity and proper specification of axial polarity , but beyond these generalities , the mechanisms underlying specific regeneration of the brain remain mysterious . Several regulators of planarian brain regeneration were uncovered through candidate-gene approaches , including axon guidance cues like Slit/Robo and Netrin/DCC as well as transcriptional regulators of certain neural subtypes , including Lhx1/5–1 , Coe , and others  . We do not yet understand how neoblasts are directed toward particular neural fates or how cells of different neural subtypes become distributed to ensure proper ratios of diverse cell types . Furthermore , the signaling molecules that promote regeneration generally and instruct replacement of specific cell types are largely unknown . While muscle cells produce polarity cues during homeostasis and in response to injury  , it is not yet clear whether they also produce molecules that promote regeneration , or whether other cells carry out or assist in this key signaling role . To begin answering these important questions , we examined gene expression during the early stages of head regeneration and employed a functional screen to identify key factors in an unbiased manner . We identified several genes required broadly for brain regeneration , including a novel transcriptional regulator of neural progenitors and several putative signaling molecules , some of which are produced by one or more uncharacterized , differentiated cell types in the planarian parenchyma . Finally , by investigating genes downregulated during regeneration , we identified a marker that led us to discover a population of cells that we determined to be glia , based on their gene expression and morphology . Taken together , our work uncovered players in diverse aspects of planarian neural regeneration and neurobiology . To devise an unbiased list of genes that could promote brain regeneration , we first identified transcripts upregulated during planarian head regrowth . We chose an approach in which we amputated planarians postpharyngeally  , reasoning that this amputation would allow us to identify global gene-expression changes , as well as changes that occur in the regenerating region itself . To identify key time points , we performed several time courses to examine morphological restoration and resumed expression of known brain markers following this particular injury . We confirmed reestablishment of anterior polarity by 12 hr , initial neural gene expression at 36 hr , primordial brain formation after 3 days  , and further maturation  at 5 days post-amputation  . Based on these time courses , we chose 12 hr , 36 hr , and 72 hr as key time points that span the early stages of brain regeneration  . To identify transcripts upregulated during head regeneration , we performed RNA sequencing on regenerating planarians at three time points  as well as whole  planarians and planarians immediately after amputation  as controls  . Over 900 transcripts were upregulated  at one or more time points in regenerating animals compared to cut  controls that were initially identical to the regenerating animals  . whole animals  , indicating that differentially expressed genes do not simply reflect a return to homeostatic gene expression . Our data were also subjected to weighted gene correlation network analysis  so that clusters of similarly regulated genes could be identified . Trends for the most abundant clusters of upregulated genes are shown  ; these modules contain known regulators of neural biology and anterior polarity including coe and lhx1/5–1  , foxD  , and notum   . Of the genes upregulated compared to cut controls , we eliminated transcripts that were very low abundance , parts of repetitive sequences , or housekeeping genes and cloned 428/933 transcripts for further analyses  . We examined the gene expression patterns of these genes by ISH and were able to establish expression patterns for ~85% of them  . We hypothesized that our dataset would be enriched in genes expressed in the CNS and , indeed , found that 47% of genes with clear expression patterns showed enrichment in the CNS  . Of the 170 genes with CNS expression , 132 were expressed broadly and 38 showed enrichment in subsets of CNS cells  . Additionally , genes expressed in the CNS were often expressed elsewhere , for example in the parenchyma or in the intestine  . Of upregulated genes with detectable expression patterns , we also found that 9% showed enriched expression in the head  and 17% were expressed in the parenchyma , some in a pattern similar to neoblast genes  . Additional genes were expressed in tissue-specific patterns that included the pharynx , intestine , protonephridia , epithelium , and eyespots  . Some non-CNS expression patterns could still reflect neural tissue in the pharynx , body wall , or eyes , but we have not investigated neural regeneration outside the CNS at this point . However , the variety of expression patterns reflects the diverse physiological changes that occur concurrently during head regeneration  . To determine whether the upregulated genes promote brain regeneration , we performed RNA interference  experiments to knock down 326 of the upregulated transcripts  . These genes included all those enriched in the CNS , head , or parenchyma , as well as a subset of genes with other expression patterns or for which no pattern was detected . After RNAi we examined brain regeneration by performing ISH to detect choline acetyltransferase  mRNA , which is expressed in an abundant cell type in the CNS  . We validated genes that caused a small brain upon regeneration by repeating RNAi and ISH , this time quantifying brain area after regeneration  . A wide range of severity was observed for genes associated with this phenotype , with relative brain areas ranging from 16–80% of controls . RNAi targeting two additional genes caused nervous system regeneration phenotypes without a small brain  : sp6-9  caused defects in eye regeneration  and arrowhead  caused defects at the midline of the brain which will be described below . If RNAi animals showed gross phenotypes like lysis or curling prior to amputation or regeneration , they were killed and fixed when a phenotype was first observed  . A screen for genes required for regeneration of the planarian brain . All 30 genes for which RNAi caused a significant reduction in brain area are shown here , with error bars representing SEM . Genes for which RNAi also caused reduction in an anterior marker are indicated with blue bars . Red bars indicate genes for which RNAi also affected stem cell maintenance . Bars with grey diagonal lines indicate genes for which RNAi also caused small blastemas after amputation . Further analysis of genes with functions in CNS regeneration . The expression patterns of the genes identified as having roles in CNS regeneration are shown in the main text  or in this panel . Expression patterns of uninjured worms are shown in the top panels , while expression of each gene in a 2 d regenerating worm  is shown below . Reestablishment of anterior polarity , using sFRP-1 as a marker , after gene knockdown with the indicated dsRNA . The stem cell pool was examined using smedwi-1 after RNAi targeting control or target genes . Upregulated genes play roles in tissue maintenance and stem cell biology . Live animals are shown after dsRNA feedings prior to amputation or after regeneration as indicated . smedwi-1 expression was used to determine the effect of each RNAi knockdown on the stem cell pool . Animals were prepared for ISH either after regeneration  or in uninjured animals  depending on the timing of phenotype presentation . Many genes identified in this study perturb smedwi-1 expression and likely disrupt stem cell maintenance and/or function . Gene expression patterns of the genes with roles in homeostasis are shown . 008 Genes associated with CNS-regeneration phenotypes were expressed in a variety of patterns , including neural , parenchymal , and ubiquitous expression  . Most were upregulated in the anterior-most tissue in regenerating tail fragments  , though patterns ranged from small subsets of cells  to broad upregulation throughout the remaining tissue  . A prior study examined the expression of genes in stem cells and their progeny  , and a number of genes identified in our functional screen are also expressed in these cell populations  . Genes with roles in regeneration belonged to several expression modules in our clustering analysis  with module 7 appearing most frequently  . This module includes 600 genes that are modestly upregulated at 12 hr and more dramatically so at 36 and 72 hr post-amputation  . The spatiotemporal diversity of gene expression patterns suggests that these genes likely affect regeneration through multiple mechanisms . Genes important for brain regeneration exert their effects through multiple mechanisms . soxB2-2 expression was also determined by ISH in animals cut postpharyngeally and allowed to regenerate for two days . qPCR was used to examine the expression of 134 genes after RNAi . The bar graph is color coded to indicate the expression of the gene targeted by RNAi  , anterior polarity genes  , genes important for neurotransmitter biogenesis  , and genes with suspected roles in neural differentiation or neural progenitors  . runt also affected neural progenitor genes , while hesl-3 primarily affected polarity genes . Asterisks mark genes with a significant difference in expression  after RNAi . Upregulated genes play roles in diverse processes to promote regeneration . hlh-1 , POU2/3–2 , TH , and otxA were detected in subsets of cells in the planarian CNS by ISH . By in situ hybridization  , foxD expression at the anterior-most point of the planarian body is reestablished after control  but is diminished or absent after hesl-3  . Secreted molecules with roles in planarian brain regeneration . Expression patterns of LDLRR-1 , LDLRR-2 , LDLRR-3 , and F-spondin were determined by ISH for uninjured worms  and tail fragments two days after amputation  . All LDLRR-3+ cells express LDLRR-1  , but only about half of LDLRR-1+cells express LDLRR-3  . LDLRR-3+ cells do not express smedwi-1  , although these cells are often found in proximity to one another . LDLRR-1 , LDLRR-3 , and F-spondin are not expressed in mhc+ muscle cells  . LDLRR FISH experiments were performed on whole worms and F-spondin FISH was performed on 2d regenerating animals . Planarians were subjected to ISH with smedwi-1 , F-spondin , and LDLRR-3 probes after mock irradiation as well as 1 , 3 , and 7 days post-irradiation . While smedwi-1 transcript is lost quickly , F-Spondin and LDLRR-3 transcripts are still present at 7 dpi , when most animals were lysing and dying . Wound-response genes follistatin , jun , inhibin , and runt were examined by ISH after RNAi and amputation . All genes were upregulated despite knockdown of the genes indicated , suggesting that LDLRR and F-spondin genes do not inhibit the general wound response . 012 As noted above , successful brain regeneration depends on several interrelated processes , not all of which are specific to the CNS . Thus , to distinguish between target genes whose knockdown specifically affected CNS regeneration and those which had indirect effects through other mechanisms , we repeated RNAi experiments and examined effects of each of the 30 genes on anterior polarity , stem cell maintenance , and regeneration of tail tissue . First , we examined the anterior marker sFRP-1  after RNAi of each gene . RNAi knockdown of 5 genes  reduced sFRP-1 expression during regeneration , with reductions ranging from minor to severe  . Thus , for these five genes , the small brain RNAi phenotype could result from insufficient reestablishment of anterior identity . We also investigated whether the stem cell pool was affected after RNAi knockdown of these 30 genes using the neoblast marker smedwi-1  . We determined that knockdown of three genes caused a reduction in smedwi-1 signal: snRNPC and rbp-1-like , which have not been described , and the previously identified gene soxP-1  . We concluded that RNAi of these three genes led to brain regeneration phenotypes secondary to stem cell defects . Finally , to confirm that brain regeneration phenotypes did not merely result from a general impairment in blastema formation  , we repeated each RNAi experiment and amputated animals anterior and posterior to the pharynx and subsequently measured blastema size after six days . RNAi of five genes  caused smaller blastemas after regeneration and only GTPbp  had an anterior-specific reduced blastema size  . Thus , these five genes likely play a role in regeneration that is not specific to the CNS  . RNAi of the remaining 19 genes caused no overt polarity or stem cell defects by ISH and no evidence of generally reduced regenerative activity  . We thus prioritized these genes for further study , as these represent the most promising candidates for factors specifically influencing brain regeneration . Though our current work is focused on regeneration of the planarian CNS , the functional screen we performed resulted in the identification of 26 additional genes for which RNAi caused defects during homeostasis and/or regeneration  . RNAi targeting 12 genes caused head regression and/or curling , while knockdown of 7 genes caused general lysis  . We used ISH with the smedwi-1 probe and detected loss or reduction of neoblasts after knockdown of 13 of these genes  ; in many of these cases  , the causative gene had not been implicated in planarian neoblast biology . As expected , most genes identified in this portion of the screen showed ubiquitous or parenchymal expression patterns  with enrichment in stem cells and/or stem cell progeny  . Other knockdowns  caused tissue homeostasis phenotypes despite the presence of stem cells  , suggesting potential roles for these genes in proper stem cell function , tissue maintenance , or differentiation . One of these genes  is required for pharynx regeneration  and here we show that it is important for head maintenance and regeneration . We investigated genes important for brain regeneration to determine whether we could assign them to known pathways or processes . To determine which downstream cells or pathways are affected , we repeated RNAi experiments for five genes  and used quantitative RT-PCR  to examine the expression of ~134 genes after the 6-day regeneration period  . The genes chosen for qPCR analysis represent neural markers  , markers of neural progenitors  , and polarity markers . We also included neoblast transcripts and genes expressed in progenitors of other tissues  to rule out general roles in stem cell maintenance or differentiation  . One of the biggest outstanding questions in understanding planarian regeneration is: what molecular cues regulate the process ? Among the 30 genes identified in our functional analysis as being required for proper brain regeneration , several genes  encoded putative signaling molecules . Of these genes , a few are expressed in differentiated cells  . One such group of genes is the LDLRR  family . LDLRR-1 and LDLRR-2 were previously identified in an analysis of wound-response genes  . LDLRR-1 is expressed in the parenchyma , while LDLRR-2 is expressed in a subset of intestinal cells and in epithelial cells , particularly in the head  . Both show redistribution of expression after injury , with punctate expression in the blastema during regeneration  . We also identified a gene with similarity to LDLRR-1 in our functional screen , which we have named LDLRR-3; this gene is also expressed in a pattern resembling that of LDLRR-1  . LDLRR-1 was so named for an LDLR  domain  ; however , the current gene model for LDLRR-1 includes a signal peptide sequence but no transmembrane domain , suggesting that LDLRR-1 is likely to be a secreted molecule or to remain attached to the cell surface by other means  . We were unable to detect known domains within the existing LDLRR-2 sequence , but LDLRR-3 has a domain architecture similar to LDLRR-1 and also lacks a transmembrane domain  . Furthermore , LDLRR-1 and LDLRR-3 share closest similarity with proteins of the Heparan Sulfate Proteoglycan  family  . Thus , the planarian family of LDLRR molecules could serve to modulate signaling in a way that promotes regeneration . We asked whether LDLRR-3 is expressed in cell types already known to play key roles during regeneration . LDLRR-3 is not irradiation sensitive  and we confirmed that LDLRR-3+ cells in the parenchyma are distinct from  smedwi-1+ stem cells  . Because muscle cells secrete position-control factors that set up the body axis of planarians  , we tested whether LDLRR-3 could be produced by muscle cells . We found that LDLRR-3+cells do not express the muscle marker mhc  ; thus , LDLRR-3 is expressed in differentiated , non-muscle cells to promote regeneration . Furthermore , while LDLRR-1 and LDLRR-3 are expressed in similar patterns  , their expression is only partly overlapping  ; all LDLRR-3+ cells express LDLRR-1 , but only half of LDLRR-1+ cells express LDLRR-3 . As expected based on this finding , LDLRR-1 is also expressed in differentiated , mhc- cells  . Because LDLRR-1 was identified as a wound response gene  , we examined other wound response genes  in LDLRR-1  and LDLRR-3  animals . In addition to the LDLRR family , a gene encoding planarian F-spondin was identified as important for CNS regeneration in our functional screen . Furthermore , the predicted planarian F-spondin protein possesses a signal peptide but lacks a transmembrane domain  , suggesting that it is secreted , like its homologs in other species  . We thus conclude that one or more parenchymal cell types produce cues  that promote regeneration of the CNS and/or regeneration more generally . In addition to exploring genes that are required for brain regeneration , we were interested in examining genes that function in more specific aspects of neural architecture . We hypothesized that regionally expressed genes might affect local connectivity or function in the regenerating planarian CNS . One subset of genes upregulated during regeneration was expressed medially in the planarian brain  . RNAi targeting these genes did not cause small brain phenotypes  . However , we did detect a specific phenotype after targeting the planarian homolog of arrowhead , a gene that encodes a LIM-homeodomain transcription factor  . Planarian arrowhead is expressed in neurons , at least some of which are ChAT+  . Despite normal brain size , arrowhead  animals regenerated with a gap between the lobes of the cephalic ganglia  . The medial gap was more clearly visualized with an anti-synapsin antibody that stains the planarian neuropil , a region rich in axons , dendrites , and synapses  . The anterior commissure is the largest commissure in the planarian CNS and connects the two lobes of the cephalic ganglia  . One factor previously shown to regulate axon guidance in planarians is slit  . While some arrowhead+ cells are slit+ , the overall slit expression pattern was unaffected after arrowhead   . Taken together , our results suggest that arrowhead regulates cells or factors that drive reconnection of the planarian brain lobes and organization of newly regenerated axons at the anterior commissure . arrowhead is required for regeneration of medial structures in the planarian CNS . Five upregulated genes were shown to be expressed medially in the CNS . arrowhead  did not cause a small brain phenotype , but ISH with ChAT revealed a gap between the cephalic ganglia after regeneration . Photoreceptor neurons were visualized with the anti-arrestin  antibody after regeneration of control  and arrowhead  animals . arrowhead and slit at the midline of the planarian brain . 016 As described previously , brain regeneration involves not only the production of properly patterned tissue , but also a restoration of function . Planarian brain branches have been ascribed functions in mechanosensing and/or chemosensing  and the auricles at the edge of the head of other planarian species have been shown to be important for chemosensory behavior  . The expression of CNG1 , which encodes a cyclic nucleotide-gated  channel , as well as other homologs of olfactory signaling proteins in the brain branches  , supported the hypothesis that these structures mediate functions specific to chemosensing . We observed a particularly interesting expression pattern for CNG1 , which was expressed in regions at the very edge of the head  , a location expected for cells serving in a sensory capacity . FLI-1 is expressed in the brain branches and functions in reacquisition of chemosensory behavior during regeneration . Fourteen upregulated genes were expressed in the brain branches of the planarian head . Expression patterns ranged from single rows of cells to broad expression in these structures . CNG1 is expressed in large , sub-epithelial regions of the planarian head margin . Knockdown of FLI-1 prior to regeneration caused a reduction of feeding in a maze-based experiment  . FLI-1 is expressed in lateral structures of the planarian brain  . Lower panel: brain branch structures are labeled with GluR1 and newly identified brain branch genes are expressed in these structures . Conserved components of olfactory signaling are also expressed in cells of the brain branches . 018 Because of the parallels between brain branches and chemosensory organs of other species , we sought to explore the roles of brain branch-expressed genes following regeneration . The 14 brain branch genes  were expressed in a broad variety of patterns , ranging from single rows of cells  to broad expression throughout the brain branches  . We detected these transcripts in cells lateral to the neuropil of the cephalic ganglia , in or near cells expressing the classical brain branch marker GluR1  . To understand the function of these genes , we first examined whether the 14 brain branch genes affected regeneration of overall brain branch structure . As mentioned previously , mblk  affects brain size during regeneration , but the other genes caused no such defect . Brain branches , detected by GluR1 ISH , were also present after knockdown of these 14 genes  . To test whether brain branch-expressed genes promote chemosensory behavior , we repeated all RNAi treatments , this time assaying regenerated worms for their ability to find food in a simple maze  . The maze was designed so that planarians had to detect chemicals from their food  and travel ~45 cm toward the food in order to eat . FLI-1 encodes an ETS-family transcription factor that is expressed in numerous cells of the planarian brain branches  . A minority of FLI-1+ cells express ChAT or GluR1  , suggesting that the FLI-1+ population likely represents a heterogeneous population of neural cells . Taken together , our findings: i ) support a role for the planarian brain branches in chemosensory behavior and ii ) suggest that FLI-1 is important for regeneration of some aspect of CNS structure or connectivity that restores chemosensory function during regeneration . Furthermore , our analysis of these genes reveals a previously underappreciated complexity to the brain branch structures , which must be reestablished during regeneration . In addition to exploring the genes that are upregulated during regeneration as potential drivers of the process , we also investigated genes downregulated  after injury as potential inhibitors of regeneration . As proof of principle , we found that the planarian homolog of activin , an inhibitor of regeneration  , is downregulated during regeneration  . We identified 534 downregulated transcripts , with the number of downregulated genes increasing between 12 hr and 72 hr post-amputation  . We were interested in the types of cells that express these downregulated genes , so we cloned 70 genes and determined the expression patterns of 58 by ISH  . The most frequent expression patterns for these genes were in the peripharyngeal secretory cells and the intestine  , suggesting that cell loss or a change in the physiology of these organ systems occurs during the early stages of planarian head regeneration . We also detected a number of genes expressed in posterior regions  , an expected pattern as posterior genes likely need to be downregulated after amputation to permit rescaling of the body axis . Ultimately , we determined that 8/58 genes were expressed in the CNS  . This proportion was about one third that of CNS expression patterns in the upregulated gene dataset . Expression profiling of genes downregulated during head regeneration . Pie chart depicting the fraction of downregulated genes examined that are expressed in the CNS  . ISH showing expression of several downregulated genes in the planarian CNS . IF-1 is expressed in a pattern closely resembling the neuropil , while other markers  are typical of neural expression . Expression patterns of genes downregulated during head regeneration . The predominant gene expression patterns of downregulated genes were in the peripharyngeal secretory region  and gut  . 020 Of the downregulated genes expressed in the planarian CNS , one expression pattern was distinct . Expression of an intermediate filament gene  was detected in the CNS in a pattern similar to antibody markers of the neuropil and different than neural gene expression , which typically marks cell bodies around the CNS  . The expression pattern of IF-1 led us to hypothesize that it is expressed in a non-neural subset of cells in the CNS . Indeed , IF-1 was expressed in cells present in the neuropil that did not express neural markers  . Intermediate Filament  gene expression marks planarian glial cells . slc1a-5 and glutamine synthetase 1  , genes required for glutamate uptake and conversion to glutamine are also expressed in an IF-1-like neuropil pattern . IF-1+cells also express the solute carrier genes slc1a-3  , slc2a-1  , slc6a-2  , slc6a-8  and slc7a-8  . Overlap was near perfect for some genes  , but other genes are more widely expressed  . Two genes from module 2  are also expressed in a neuropil-like pattern . jagged-like is expressed in puncta and a novel gene , estrella , is expressed strongly in the neuropil and in cells around the planarian body . FISH with the estrella probe marks cells with extensive cytoplasmic projections in the neuropil , in the periphery of the animal body , near the brain branches , and in the eye , suggesting that estrella+ cells surround many components of the planarian nervous system . An electron micrograph of a putative planarian glial cell in the neuropil of the ventral nerve cord . Characterization of planarian glial cells . A whole-animal double FISH showing the expression of IF-1 in PC-2- cells throughout the neuropil of the animal . ISH showing solute carrier genes  expressed in glial cells . High gene expression is shown in red while downregulated gene expression is shown in green . The existence of glial cells in planarians has been a matter of debate: electron microscopy analyses have been used to argue both for and against the presence of such cells  . The identification of IF-1+ glia is significant , especially given  the downregulation of IF-1 as an injury response and  the tendency of glial cells in other organisms to affect neural regeneration ( positively or adversely depending on the situation – for review , see Pekny et al . Thus , to determine whether the IF-1+ cells of the planarian nervous system share similarities with glial cells in other organisms , we sought to identify genes coexpressed with IF-1 . We therefore investigated the expression patterns of planarian slc1a-5  and GS-1  and found that they were also expressed in a pattern similar to IF-1  . We also confirmed non-neural expression of slc1a-5 using both PC-2 and ChAT as markers of neurons  . We assayed the expression patterns of several additional solute carrier genes and determined that IF-1+ cells express slc1a-3  , slc2a-1  , slc6a-2 and slc6a-8  , and slc7a-8   . Importantly , many of the genes coexpressed with IF-1 are not differentially expressed  or are even slightly upregulated during regeneration  . Taken together , these results indicate that IF-1+ glial cells in planarians are similar to glial cells  in other organisms , in that they express a variety of transporters of the solute carrier family  . Furthermore , because most markers coexpressed with IF-1 are not reduced after amputation , we conclude that glial cells are not lost after injury , but instead alter their gene expression . We also sought an unbiased way of identifying genes coexpressed with IF-1 , particularly additional genes downregulated during head regeneration . Reasoning that genes that behave like IF-1 during regeneration might meet both criteria , we turned to our clustering analysis , and focused on module 2 , a cluster of 1520 genes  that are downregulated by 12 hr post-amputation and even more significantly downregulated at 36 hr and 72 hr  . As a pilot study , we cloned 48 genes from this module and examined their expression patterns . The majority of these genes showed expression patterns irrelevant to our glial studies . We also identified a gene that encodes a signal peptide-containing protein; we named this novel gene estrella  based on its expression pattern and the origin of our S . The expression pattern of estrella highlights the extensive processes of glial cells and their wide distribution in the neuropil , the peripheral nervous system , near the brain branches , and near photoreceptors  . Together , our results indicate that IF-1+ glial cells respond to injury by downregulating a variety of genes  over the course of several days . Finally , we used electron microscopy to confirm the existence of glial cells in the planarian neuropil . Planarian glial cells were also distinct from nearby neurons in that they had electron-dense cytoplasm and elongated nuclei with abundant peripheral heterochromatin  . Throughout the neuropil , where neuronal processes are a dominant feature , electron-dense projections were also common  , suggesting extensive projection of glial cells throughout the neuropil of the planarian nervous system . Though we have not yet shown that the cells identified by electron microscopy are IF-1+ , the morphology seen by electron microscopy is consistent with the cell shapes revealed by estrella gene expression  . We therefore conclude that both our gene expression data and electron microscopic analysis support the existence of glia in the planarian CNS . To better understand regeneration , it will be important to identify the signals that initiate and direct the process . Surprisingly , the signals that promote regeneration in planarians remain mysterious . Notwithstanding a host of signaling molecules known to establish polarity in the regenerating worm , only a few signaling molecules or their receptors have been determined to regulate regeneration , including opposing Follistatin and Activin signals and EGF- and FGF-receptors that regulate various aspects of homeostasis and regeneration  . Importantly , though planarian neoblasts have been hypothesized to integrate a wide variety of signals to choose between daughter cell fates  , whether neoblasts express the diversity of receptors required to integrate numerous signals remains unknown . Thus , further exploring the signals required for regeneration , as well as the cellular origin  and receiver  of each signal will greatly enhance our understanding of how diverse cellular events  are triggered and coordinated during the regenerative response . One goal of our screen was to identify putative signals that influence regeneration , generally , or for the CNS in particular . To that end , we identified several putative signaling molecules encoded by CRELD , F-spondin , and LDLRR family genes that each encode a secreted or transmembrane protein that could function in a signaling capacity . In mice , CRELD1 is expressed in the CNS in addition to its expression in the heart , and the Drosophila CRELD homolog  is expressed across multiple tissues , including the nervous system  . Planarian CRELD is expressed in diverse cell types  , including stem cell progeny  , and is enriched in the brain and head . F-spondin proteins are conserved among metazoans , localize to ECM-rich areas , and play roles in cell adhesion , including promoting axon extension from the neural floor plate  . Despite their names , planarian LDLRR proteins are most closely related to basement membrane-specific Heparan Sulfate Proteoglycans  in other metazoans . F-spondin and the LDLRR proteins are predicted to be secreted molecules and could promote regeneration by serving as signals themselves , by binding to and changing the activity of other signaling molecules , and/or by contributing to an unknown regenerative function of the planarian ECM . Importantly , F-spondin , LDLRR-1 , and -3 are each expressed in differentiated , non-muscle cells in the parenchyma , suggesting that these uncharacterized cells perform some signaling function important for proper regeneration . Cells expressing LDLRR-3 and F-Spondin clustered with 'gut' cells in a recent transcriptomic analysis of single cells  , but the overall expression patterns of these genes are not reflective of the intestine . Planarian stem cells are present throughout the parenchyma and are surrounded by other parenchymal cell types , one of which has been termed 'fixed parenchyma cells' in the electron microscopy literature  . We have yet to determine what kind of cell-cell interactions or local signaling events in the parenchyma influence the activity of planarian stem cells , either in homeostasis or in regeneration . The parenchymal signaling cells and molecules revealed by our screen might be a valuable entry point in determining whether or how neighboring cells promote the maintenance , cycling , differentiation , or migration of planarian neoblasts . Another area of investigation concerns whether the CNS influences regeneration by playing a signaling role , as it does in other organisms  . A recent single-cell analysis suggested that neurons do not respond to injury with gene expression changes  . However , these studies were performed on worm fragments that were missing their cephalic ganglia , and only addressed gene expression changes in the first 12 hr after amputation . We identified one gene upregulated later in regeneration , arrowhead , that is required at the midline of the cephalic ganglia for axon organization across the anterior commissure . This non-cell-autonomous role likely involves signaling from arrowhead+ neurons at this location to organize the projections of other cells , including the photoreceptor neurons . Thus , at a minimum , some neurons of the CNS likely influence the organization of one another during regeneration . One of the crucial events required for regeneration of nervous tissue is coordinated neurogenesis . In the planarian field , a major question is how neoblasts are directed to specific cell fates , including neurons , and how the appropriate number and mixture of cells are reestablished . In planarians , some work has been done to identify a handful of factors that regulate commitment to certain neural subtypes , including coe , lhx1/5–1 , and others  . We identified a transcription factor , soxB2-2 , required for full expression of several neural progenitor genes . In particular , sox21 is upregulated during spinal cord regeneration in Xenopus  . It will be important to determine whether roles for soxB2-2 in neurogenesis and regeneration are indeed conserved . We also expanded the known roles for planarian runt in brain regeneration . In addition to its role in the eye , runt is important for proper expression of ap2 and klf  ; ap2 drives respecification of medial TrpA+ neurons , and klf is important for regeneration of cintillo+ cells in the brain branches  . Thus , runt influences neural progenitors to contribute to multiple neural types across different regions of the brain . Neither soxB2-2 nor runt appears to be required globally for neurogenesis , but each controls a distinct array of fates and is required for optimal brain regeneration , suggesting that these two genes’ products promote distinct neurogenesis pathways . Both soxB2-2 and runt are upregulated during regeneration , implying that they are activated in neoblasts or early progenitors to skew the balance of specialized progeny and promote neural fates needed for rebuilding the brain . Future studies could use soxB2-2 and runt as starting points for defining neurogenesis pathways; by exploring both upstream regulators and targets that control downstream progenitor and neural fates , these middle-out studies could define differentiation trajectories from neoblast to neuron . Dozens of neural cell types in the planarian CNS can be defined by the expression patterns of neuropeptide and neurotransmitter biosynthesis genes  . Most of these neural subtypes arise during regeneration through mechanisms that have not yet been uncovered . That RNAi would affect presumptive neural progenitors without a detectable effect on a neural marker could simply be due to a lack of tools required to delineate the affected neural cell types , or due to the sensitivity of the assay . However , other transcription factors identified in this screen as having no brain-size phenotype  could play more subtle roles in specification or function of neural subtypes . FLI-1 expression in neoblasts could shift them to certain fates important for brain-branch architecture or wiring . In contrast , transcription factors like arrowhead and mblk are each expressed predominantly in differentiated cell types  , and likely function later in differentiation or in mature neurons to affect maintenance , connectivity , or function . Surprisingly , though we anticipated that hesl-3 would affect gene expression in neural progenitors  , we found that the clearest impact of hesl-3  is on polarity genes like sFRP and foxD . hesl-3 expression is highest in neoblasts  , though expression in the CNS is also evident  . Another possibility is that hesl-3+ cells contribute to regeneration of the brain and that the regenerating brain is important for resetting or maintaining anterior polarity . Neural tissue is critical for regeneration in a variety of other model organisms  , but we have not been able to determine whether it is so in planarians . Future work will be required to identify targets of hesl-3 and to determine whether its roles in head patterning and brain regeneration occur through an influence on neurogenesis , polarity , or both . We investigated genes downregulated during planarian regeneration and discovered a marker  that is expressed in non-neural cells that have several hallmarks of glial identity . First , IF-1+ cells express a range of solute carrier family genes , including genes that are important for reuptake of glutamate; this function is carried out by astrocytes in the mammalian nervous system  . Second , IF-1+ cells are present in the neuropil and have extensive cytoplasmic projections , positioning them ideally to support axonal or synaptic activity of neurons in the CNS . Third , IF-1+ cells respond to injury by changing their gene expression  , much like astrocytes in mammals  . The discovery of glia in the planarian CNS raises many interesting possibilities for future study . Glia are an abundant , diverse , and essential population of cells in the mammalian nervous system , so functional regeneration of human neural tissue would require regeneration of glia alongside regeneration of neurons themselves . Thus , it will be informative to understand how glia repopulate the regenerating planarian CNS and in particular how glial and neural regeneration are coordinated . Though it is not yet clear whether the planarian glial injury-response program is important for driving or permitting regeneration , contrasting the planarian glial response with that of glia in non-regenerating organisms might shed light on how glial activation can be harnessed for purely regeneration-promoting functions . For example , planarian IF-1 is downregulated after injury , while mammalian GFAP is upregulated during astrocyte activation  . Finally , RNAi of the glial genes identified in this study has so far failed to reveal phenotypes  . This is not surprising , because the downregulation of IF-1 and other glial genes during regeneration suggests that gain-of-function treatments might be more likely to perturb regeneration . More nuanced assays and identification of genes required for glial specification or maintenance will be required to assess whether and how planarian glia support neuronal biology and behavior in planarians . Planarians regenerate their central nervous system de novo , prodigiously replacing neurons and reconnecting neural networks to restore function in only a week . As such , they provide a simple , in vivo model for understanding neural regeneration . Through RNAi studies , we identified several factors that influence reestablishment of cell types , reconnection of a major commissure , and restoration of chemosensory behavior . Genes identified in our study also mark new cell types , including planarian glia , putative chemosensory cells , and previously unknown parenchymal cells that promote regeneration . In sum , we have advanced our understanding of diverse aspects of planarian neurobiology and neural regeneration; furthermore , we have laid the foundation for a wide range of studies geared toward understanding success and failure in neural regeneration . For regeneration experiments , animals were amputated using sterile scalpels . To examine global gene expression patterns across the dataset , we selected 9 , 850 contigs with one-way ANOVA FDR p-value ≤0 . Initial qPCR experiments were performed 2–4 times per gene knockdown; validation qPCR experiments  were performed in biological triplicate and technical triplicate , except soxB2-2  and control , for which we had 6 biological replicates and technical triplicates . To assay blastema size , animals were fixed after regeneration for imaging . "
"Here , we describe a method for in-vivo imaging of extracellular ATP with high spatiotemporal resolution . We prepared a comprehensive set of cysteine-substitution mutants of ATP-binding protein , Bacillus FoF1-ATP synthase ε subunit , labeled with small-molecule fluorophores at the introduced cysteine residue . Screening revealed that the Cy3-labeled glutamine-105 mutant  shows a large fluorescence change in the presence of ATP , with submicromolar affinity , pH-independence , and high selectivity for ATP over ATP metabolites and other nucleotides . The resulting ATPOS complex binds to neurons in cerebral cortex of living mice , and clearly visualized a concentrically propagating wave of extracellular ATP release in response to electrical stimulation . ATPOS should be useful to probe the extracellular ATP dynamics of diverse biological processes in vivo . To date , a variety of techniques for measurement of ATP have been developed: bioluminescence assay methods using firefly luciferase  , electrochemical methods including voltammetry  , enzyme-coupled electrode techniques  , cell-based electrophysiological techniques  , and whole cell-based fluorescence assay methods using Ca2+ indicator  . Some of them have been applied to measure extracellular ATP concentrations in vivo  . For example , bioluminescence assay is able to quantify the extracellular ATP levels in microdialysis samples  , and enzyme-coated electrodes inserted in tissues allow continuous monitoring of extracellular ATP levels in the brain  . Imaging of the bioluminescence generated by luciferin-luciferase reaction might be a solution for spatially resolved measurement of ATP  , and indeed , engineered cells displaying luciferase on the plasma membrane were used to visualize extracellular ATP in vivo by inoculating the cells into living mice  . On the other hand , imaging techniques using fluorescent sensors can provide excellent spatiotemporal resolution  , and a variety of fluorescent ATP sensors based on fluorescent proteins have been developed  . These genetically encoded ATP sensors can visualize intracellular ATP dynamics , and have facilitated our understanding of ATP signaling inside cells  . In contrast , attempts to adapt the existing sensors for extracellular use have achieved limited success , and in vivo imaging of extracellular ATP is still difficult  . One problem is that the affinities of these extracellular ATP sensors are too low to monitor extracellular ATP , the concentration of which likely ranges from hundreds of nanomolar to micromolar levels  . Moreover , these extracellular ATP sensors are designed to be synthesized inside the cells and transported to the plasma membrane to face the extracellular space  . Another problem is the strong pH dependency of these genetically encoded ATP sensors , due to the innate pH sensitivity of the fluorescent proteins used  . This pH dependence is especially problematic in in vivo ATP imaging , because changes in ATP concentration in tissues are often accompanied by pH fluctuations  . In this study , to develop a hybrid-type ATP sensor , we adopted bacterial FoF1-ATP synthase ε subunit as an ATP-binding protein , because fluorescent-dye conjugation has been used to study conformational changes of the protein upon ATP binding  . We screened fluorescent dyes and their labeling sites within the ATP-binding protein , and obtained a highly sensitive ATP sensor with a large fluorescence response , high selectivity for ATP , and insensitivity to pH fluctuation , suitable for detection of extracellular ATP . The sensor can be anchored on the plasma membrane to detect extracellular ATP . To illustrate potential applications of the sensor , we performed extracellular ATP imaging in the brain of living mice , and observed the propagation of a wave-like extracellular ATP increase through the cerebral cortex in response to neuronal excitation evoked by electrical stimulation . The results confirm that the ATP sensor is suitable for in vivo imaging of the dynamics of extracellular ATP signaling . To visualize extracellular ATP , we designed a hybrid-type fluorescent ATP sensor composed of an ATP-binding protein and a small-molecule fluorescent dye . We adopted the ε subunit of FoF1-ATP synthase of thermophilic Bacillus PS3 , which has high affinity for ATP  , as the ATP-binding protein , and introduced a single cysteine substitution in its amino-acid sequence to enable the conjugation of a small-molecule fluorescent dye bearing a cysteine-reactive maleimide group  . To obtain a high-sensitivity ATP sensor , we used our previously developed high-throughput screening system , HyFInD  , in which a large variety of fluorescent conjugates can be generated by varying both the fluorophore conjugation sites and the fluorophores , and then evaluated for fluorescence response to a ligand . For the initial screening we employed a high concentration  of ATP to select sensors having a large dynamic range of fluorescence response . For each of the four fluorophores , we found a moderate number of fluorescent conjugates showing detectable fluorescence changes upon application of ATP , but with a large variation in the response  . We then selected eight fluorescent conjugates as candidate sensors showing a large fluorescence response in the initial screening , and tested their fluorescence response to a low ATP concentration   . Variation in the fluorescence response was again observed , as in the case of the higher concentration of ATP . The conjugate exhibiting the largest fluorescence response at 200 nM ATP was the Cy3-labeled cysteine substitution mutant at glutamine 105  . In the absence of ATP , ATPOS displayed a fluorescence excitation peak at 556 nm and an emission peak at 566 nm  . At 1 mM ATP , the fluorescence intensity of ATPOS increased without any appreciable change in the peak wavelengths  , while the absorption spectrum showed almost no change upon the addition of ATP  . To estimate the sensitivity of ATPOS for ATP , we examined the dependence of the fluorescence change of ATPOS on the concentration of ATP  . The results suggest that ATPOS has sufficiently high affinity for ATP to be applicable for the visualization of extracellular ATP . The Hill coefficient value of ~1 suggests that ATPOS binds to ATP with 1:1 stoichiometry . We also compared the affinity for ATP with those for ATP metabolites and other nucleotides to examine the selectivity of ATPOS . The affinity for ATP was about one hundred-fold higher than that for ADP , and ATPOS was almost insensitive to other metabolites of ATP , such as AMP and adenosine , and other nucleotides such as GTP , CTP and UTP  . We also measured fluorescence decay of ATPOS upon a decrease in ATP concentration , and determined the decay rate constant to be 2 . These results suggest that the association and dissociation kinetics of ATPOS is fast enough to monitor ATP dynamics on a time scale of seconds . The pH dependence of ATP sensors is a critical determinant of the accuracy of ATP quantification , because pH fluctuations often occur at the same time as changes in ATP concentration  . Therefore , we assessed the pH sensitivity of ATPOS and observed no fluorescence response to changes in pH from 6 . For in vivo ATP imaging with ATPOS , we introduced two additional features . Firstly , in order to anchor ATPOS to the outer surface of cell membranes , enabling it to report extracellular ATP in brain tissue , we employed BoNT/C-Hc , a nontoxic subunit of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin , which binds to the plasma membrane of neurons  . The ATPOS complex exhibited a large fluorescence change in the red  channel and high sensitivity for ATP , comparable to those of ATPOS itself , whereas it showed no fluorescence change in the green  channel  . Therefore , the ratio of red to green fluorescence provides a measure of ATP concentration . After the ATPOS complex was applied , followed by wash-out , both red and green fluorescence was observed along the neurons  , indicating successful anchoring of the ATPOS complex on the neuronal cell surface . The fluorescence intensity in the red channel increased upon ATP addition , but that in the green channel did not; consequently the fluorescence ratio was increased . These results indicate that the ATPOS complex anchored on the neuronal surface can work as a ratiometric sensor of extracellular ATP . We then applied the ATPOS complex for extracellular ATP imaging in the cerebral cortex of living mice . The ATPOS complex was pressure-injected into layer 2/3 of the cerebral cortex with a fine glass pipette through a craniotomy  . The area labeled by ATPOS , identified by its fluorescence , gradually spread across the cortex to occupy a region 2 mm in diameter  . To examine the distribution of ATPOS in the cerebral cortex with cellular resolution , we performed two-photon imaging of the target cortical area , and found that the blood vessels and cell bodies remained unstained  . These results indicate that ATPOS is immobilized in the extracellular space of the cortex . To confirm that ATPOS introduced into the cerebral cortex in this way works as a sensor of extracellular ATP , we next injected ATP into the cortex with a glass pipette , and visualized the ratiometric fluorescence response of ATPOS by means of wide-field fluorescence microscopy . To check the selectivity of ATPOS’s response , we applied apyrase , which sequentially hydrolyzes ATP to ADP and ADP to AMP , to the cortex , and observed whether it reduced the fluorescence response of ATPOS to the ATP injection . These results support the view that ATPOS applied in the mouse cortex does indeed report the extracellular ATP concentration . We then attempted to visualize extracellular ATP endogenously released during neuronal excitation in living mice . Previous reports indicate that a propagating wave of neuronal depolarization evoked by electrical stimulation or KCl application to the brain  causes elevation of the extracellular ATP concentration  . Accordingly , we delivered electrical stimulation to the cortex with a metal microelectrode to induce a wave of neuronal depolarization , and observed the fluorescence response of ATPOS during the neuronal excitation under a wide-field microscope  . To verify that this wave-like propagation represented the dynamics of extracellular ATP , we compared the fluorescence responses of ATPOS to the stimulation before and after the application of apyrase . These results suggest that the wave-like propagation of fluorescence changes of ATPOS reflects the dynamics of extracellular ATP signaling during neuronal excitation . In addition , to visualize the dynamics of extracellular ATP during the neuronal excitation at a single cross section , we performed two-photon imaging of ATPOS upon electrical stimulation in layer 2/3 , where ATPOS was injected  . The wave-like propagation of fluorescence changes of ATPOS was also observed at a single cross section in layer 2/3 . These results are consistent with those obtained by wide-field microscopy , showing the wave-like propagation of extracellular ATP during neuronal excitation . In the present study , we developed a fluorescent ATP sensor that enables real-time imaging of extracellular ATP dynamics in vivo , and we showed that this sensor , ATPOS , can visualize wave-like extracellular ATP signaling in the cerebral cortex of living mice in response to electrical stimulation . ATPOS has at least four advantages for in vivo visualization of extracellular ATP . First , ATPOS has a very high affinity for ATP; its apparent dissociation constant is ~150 nM , while those of previously reported fluorescent ATP sensors , such as ATeam , QUEEN and iATPSnFR , are in the range of several micromolar to several millimolar  . The low affinity of the conventional sensors makes them unsuitable for in vivo extracellular ATP imaging . Second , ATPOS displays high brightness; its fluorescence quantum yield  in the presence of ATP was around 0 . The QY of ATPOS is equivalent to that of Cy3B  , a rigidified analog of Cy3 , which was designed to prevent nonradiative energy loss due to rotational and translational vibration modes  . Therefore the high brightness of ATPOS may result from restriction of the intramolecular vibration modes of Cy3 within ATPOS . Third , ATPOS shows high selectivity for ATP over ATP metabolites and other nucleotides . Therefore , compared with conventional fluorescent sensors targeting adenine compounds  or nucleoside polyphosphates  , ATPOS should be better suited to study the specific roles of extracellular ATP , because derivatives of ATP also work as extracellular signaling molecules  . This characteristic of ATPOS is likely attributable to the ligand selectivity of the ε subunit of FoF1-ATP synthase  , because existing ATP sensors with high selectivity , including ATeam , QUEEN and iATPSnFR , also adopt the ε subunit as an ATP-binding protein  . Existing fluorescent protein-based ATP sensors all show pH-dependent changes of fluorescence intensity  . The pH insensitivity of ATPOS can be ascribed to its hybrid-type design , in which a pH-insensitive small-molecule fluorescent dye is employed instead of a fluorescent protein . This feature of ATPOS enables precise quantitative analysis of ATP dynamics regardless of pH fluctuations . The screening of fluorophore labeling sites enabled us to select ATP sensors exhibiting a large fluorescence response to ATP . The maximal fluorescence response of ATPOS to ATP is about 2-fold , which is sufficient for the detection of ATP dynamics in vivo . Some ATP sensors found through the screening exhibited a large fluorescence change , but showed low sensitivity . For example , the Alexa488-labeled sensor in which serine-64 was replaced by cysteine  , whose EC50 was tens of micromolar , showed about 200% maximal fluorescence response to ATP . These low-affinity ATP sensors obtained in the screening may be useful for ATP imaging under circumstances where the ATP concentration is elevated to such high levels . We also obtained different-colored ATP sensors displaying green or near-infrared fluorescence . ATPOS revealed the dynamic response of extracellular ATP to electrical stimulation  in the cerebral cortex of living mice . We found that the elevation of extracellular ATP around the stimulation site propagates through the cortex in a concentric fashion . Although the elevation of extracellular ATP concentration during CSD is already known  , its spatial dynamics have not been reported . We found that the ATP wave propagated at the speed of ~2 mm/min , which is comparable to the reported rate of neuronal propagation of CSD , 2 to 5 mm/min  , suggesting a role of the ATP-release mechanism in CSD . The precipitous rise of ATP at the wave front suggests that the ATP wave is likely to be formed by active propagation of ATP release , rather than passive diffusion . In addition , the ATP wave was observed in the entire field of view , suggesting that the elevation of ATP concentration occurs across a broad area of the brain . Given that ATP works as a signaling molecule for both neurons and glial cells  , the ATP wave during CSD may play an important role in the cellular processes involved in the pathogenesis of migraine and stroke  . We anticipate that ATPOS will be a useful tool not only for studies of these pathophysiological processes , but also for investigating the feasibility of novel clinical treatments targeting ATP signaling . In the first screening , fluorescence changes upon addition of ATP  at a final concentration of 2 mM were measured . In the second screening , fluorescence changes upon addition of ATP at a final concentration of 200 nM were measured . To create the ATPOS complex , which enables the anchoring of ATPOS on neuronal surfaces , ATPOS  was biotinylated with NHS-PEG4-biotin  at a concentration of 10 μM in PBS at 25°C for 1 hr , followed by separation from unreacted NHS-PEG4-biotin on a NAP-5 desalting column  . Alexa Fluor 488 streptavidin  , the biotinylated BoNT/C-Hc , and the biotinylated ATPOS were mixed in a buffer  at final concentrations of 2 μM , 2 μM , and 6 μM , respectively . Fluorescence intensities were measured three times at each concentration of ATP , ADP  , AMP  , adenosine  , CTP  , GTP  , or UTP  at 25–26°C . 1% bovine serum albumin containing either ATPOS or ATP were mixed at ~20 nM final concentration of ATPOS . For measuring dissociation kinetics , HBS containing 5 nM ATPOS and 200 nM ATP was diluted with an equal volume of HBS . Fluorescence intensity was measured five times at each concentration of ATP at 25–26°C . Cultured neurons were incubated with ATPOS complex at a final ATPOS concentration of 600 nM in physiological salt solution  containing 0 . The ATPOS complex solution was pressure-injected into the cerebral cortex for 20–30 min through a glass micropipette whose tip was inserted to a depth of 300 μm from the pia . Two-photon ATP imaging was performed using a two-photon laser scanning microscope  equipped with an optical parametric oscillator  laser system and a HyD detector  , using a × 25/0 . For ATP application , 10 mM ATP was pressure-injected for 10 s . After background fluorescence was subtracted from images , fluorescence response  was calculated relative to the baseline before ATP application or electrical stimulation . "
"Expression of the stress-induced ligands MICA , MICB and ULBP 1–6 are up-regulated as a cellular response to DNA damage , excessive proliferation or viral infection; thereby , they enable recognition and annihilation by immune cells that express the powerful activating receptor NKG2D . In this study , we report a direct interaction of the oncogenic RNA binding protein  IMP3 with ULBP2 mRNA , leading to ULBP2 transcript destabilization and reduced ULBP2 surface expression in several human cell lines . We also discovered that IMP3 indirectly targets MICB with a mechanism functionally distinct from that of ULBP2 . Importantly , IMP3-mediated regulation of stress-ligands leads to impaired NK cell recognition of transformed cells . Our findings shed new light on the regulation of NKG2D ligands and on the mechanism of action of a powerful oncogenic RBP , IMP3 . IMP3  is a member of the family of the insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding proteins . Besides the critical role of IMP3 in fetal development  and fertility  , its importance as an oncogene in several kinds of cancer was determined in the last few years: Expression of IMP3 could be observed in colon carcinoma  , adenocarcinomas  , urothelial carcinomas  , lymphomas  , renal cell carcinomas  , and many more  . Additionally , high expression of IMP3 often correlates with poor survival prognosis for patients  . So far , the role of IMP3 as regulator of cell proliferation , migration and invadopodia formation was mainly studied due to its ability to bind and stabilize mRNAs coding for insulin like growth factor 2  or CD44  . This suggests that the expression of the NKG2D ligands is also controlled at mRNA level , and indeed , we have previously shown that 10 different cellular miRNAs negatively regulate the expression of MICA and MICB proteins  . In this study , we show a new mechanism of IMP3 that facilitates immune evasion of cancerous cells by downregulation of the NKG2D ligand ULBP2 in a direct manner and MICB in an indirect manner . In order to identify additional regulators of other NKG2D ligands , particularly of the ULBP family , we performed RNA binding protein affinity purification  with subsequent analysis by mass spectrometry  . RNA affinity purification using the 3 ‘UTR of ULBP2 . Cytoplasmic extracts of RKO cells were incubated with RNA coding for the 3‘UTR of ULBP2 or control UTRs . IMP3  is the hit with the highest coverage and amount of specific and total peptides in the analyzed gel band . 003 For that purpose , we cloned the 3’UTR sequences of ULBP1 , 2 and 3 as well as control UTRs and generated in vitro RNAs in presence of biotin-UTP  . Next , we generated cytoplasmic extracts of RKO cells  and incubated the RNAs with the extracts  . Mass spectrometry analysis of an excised gel slice revealed IMP3  as the protein with the highest coverage  , the most unique peptides  and total peptides  , suggesting that IMP3 precipitates with the 3’UTR of ULBP2 . In order to verify that IMP3 indeed regulates the expression of ULBP2 , we transduced RKO cells with a plasmid containing a small hairpin RNA  that selectively targets IMP3  . As control , we transduced RKO cells with a scrambled shRNA  . We confirmed the knockdown using Western Blot  with two different antibodies targeting IMP3 and used GAPDH as reference  . Additionally , we analyzed mRNA levels of IMP3 using qRT-PCR and observed a residual amount of about 13% mRNA of IMP3 compared to scrambled shRNA  . Next , we analyzed the mRNA levels of the ULBP ligands in RKO shIMP3 compared to scrambled shRNA and observed a significant increase of ULBP2 mRNA levels following knockdown of IMP3 but no changes in mRNA levels of the other ULBP family members 1 and 3  . To assess the significance of this knockdown , we performed flow cytometry analysis of the NKG2D ligands ULBP1 , 2 and 3 . We observed an elevation in levels of ULBP2 upon IMP3 knockdown of more than 30% . The surface expression of ULBP3 was unchanged , while little or no expression of ULBP1 was observed on RKO cells prior and after the IMP3 knockdown  . In order to exclude a possible off-target effect of the shRNA that might cause the observed effects on the stress-ligand expression , we performed a rescue experiment of IMP3 expression in RKO  . Expectedly , stress-ligand levels decreased back after the transduction of IMP3 in shIMP3 cells . Knockdown of IMP3 in RKO cells and surface staining of NKG2D ligands . Western Blot analysis of IMP3  in RKO cells transduced with a scrambled shRNA or with a shRNA against IMP3  . Quantification of IMP3 levels of Western Blots assays of two independent experiments performed with two different antibodies recognizing IMP3 , relative to GAPDH expression *p=0 . qRT-PCR analysis of mRNA levels of IMP3 levels in RKO cells transduced with a scrambled shRNA or with shIMP3 , normalized to GAPDH . qRT-PCR analysis of mRNA levels for the NKG2D ligands in RKO transduced with shIMP3 compared to RKO transduced with scrambled shRNA . Combined data out of 4 replicates , statistics are calculated by comparing transcript levels of the same mRNA in RKO shIMP3 and RKO scrambled shRNA . Surface expression of NKG2D ligands ULBP1 , 2 and 3 on RKO cells analyzed by FACS . Expression is shown on RKO cells transduced with shIMP3  and on cells transduced with a scrambled shRNA  . The grey filled histogram is the background staining determined for an isotype mouse IgG antibody on shIMP3 RKO . Quantification of ULBP2 surface expression on transduced with a scrambled or a IMP3 targeting shRNA . Rescue IMP3 in RKO shIMP3 cells reverses increase in ULBP2 expression . RKO transduced with a shRNA targeting IMP3 were selected using puromycin and subsequently transduced with a plasmid coding for IMP3 . FACS analysis of stress-ligand expression of ULBP2 is shown; cells that expressed the IMP3 targeting hairpin RNA were transduced either with an empty vector as control  or with a IMP3 expression vector  . Cells were gated according to their appearance in forward and side scatter and for the expression of GFP as reporter for the IMP3-overexpression . 005 To further validate the findings seen for the knockdown of IMP3 we transduced RKO cells with an IMP3 overexpression vector . The RNA levels of IMP3 were also significantly increased after transduction  . Compared to the knockdown of IMP3 , RNA levels and FACS analysis of the overexpression revealed inverse effects on the stress-ligand expression  . RNA levels in overexpression cells were about 20% reduced compared to the control cells for ULBP2 , but not for ULBP3 . In FACS analysis , the surface expression of ULBP2 decreased by about 10% . The surface expression of ULBP1 and ULBP3 was unchanged as seen for the knockdown . Surface staining of stress-induced ligands in IMP3 overexpressing RKO cells . Western Blot analysis of IMP3 in parental RKO cells and RKO cells overexpressing IMP3  . Quantification of IMP3 levels of Western Blots assays of two independent experiments performed relative to GAPDH expression . IMP3 RNA levels in the RKO-IMP3 compared to RKO analyzed by qRT-PCR . RNA levels of ULBP2 and ULBP3 in RKO-IMP3 compared to RKO-dsRed analyzed by qRT-PCR . Surface expression of NKG2D ligands ULBP1 , 2 and 3 on RKO cells analyzed by FACS . Expression is shown on RKO cells overexpressing IMP3  and on parental cells  . Quantification of ULBP2 surface expression on RKO or RKO-IMP3 , *p  =0 . 006 To see if the effect of IMP3 on the stress-induced ligands ULBP2 is specific for the colon carcinoma RKO cell line , we performed a knockdown of IMP3 in the colorectal carcinoma HCT116 and in the embryonic kidney-derived cell line 293T and verified the knockdowns using WB . In HCT116 cells , the shRNA targeting IMP3 caused a loss of about 85%; in 293T cells , we could virtually not detect any remaining IMP3 protein  . ULBP2 after IMP3 knockdown and overexpression in HCT116 and 293T cells . Western Blot analysis of IMP3 knockdown in HCT116 and 293T cells compared to cells transduced with a scrambled shRNA . Quantification of IMP3 WB in HCT116 and 293T , a single experiment was performed . FACS analysis of ULBP2 on HCT116 and 293T cell lines with or without IMP3 knockdown . Quantification of FACS analysis on HCT116 and 293T cell lines with a knockdown for IMP3 shown if figure C . Cell surface staining for ULBP2 in IMP3-overexpressing cell lines HCT116 and 293T . Cells were gated according to their appearance in forward and side scatter and to their GFP levels in FACS that correlate with IMP3 expression . Quantification of surface expression of ULBP2 in IMP3 overexpressing HCT116 and 293T cells shown in figure E . Rescue IMP3 in 293T shIMP3 cells reverses ULBP2 increase . 293T transduced with a shRNA targeting IMP3 were selected using puromycin and subsequently transduced with IMP3 using a lentiviral vector . FACS analysis of stress-ligand expression of ULBP2 is shown; staining of shIMP3 cells transduced with an empty vector as black histogram and cells with rescued IMP3 expression as red histogram . Cells were gated according to their appearance in forward and side scatter and for expression of GFP as reporter for the IMP3-overexpression . 008 Notably , we observed similar effects in all IMP3 knockdown cell lines on stress-ligand expression  . In HCT116 colorectal carcinoma cell lines , the knockdown resulted in a significant increase of ULBP2 of more than 30%; similarly , we observed an increase of about 15% for ULBP2 in 293T upon IMP3 loss this cell line  . In order to exclude off-target effects of the shRNA in this cell line as well , we performed a rescue experiment of IMP3 expression in 293T as well  . As we observed for RKO , ULBP2 levels in 293T cells decreased back after the transduction of IMP3 in shIMP3 cells . To confirm our findings , we performed the overexpression of IMP3 also in HCT116 and 293T cells . In both cell lines , we saw an even stronger decrease of ULBP2 in comparison to RKO after overexpression of IMP3  : 25% for HCT116 and 35% loss for 293T cells . We next investigated the mechanism by which the RBP IMP3 affects ULBP2 expression . To this end , we incubated RKO shIMP3 and RKO scrambled shRNA for 16 hr with the transcription inhibitor D-Actinomycin or with DMSO as diluent control . We defined the amount of mRNAs in the DMSO-treated control as 1 and calculated the remaining mRNA levels after D-Actinomycin treatment for RKO shIMP3 and RKO scrambled shRNA . Interestingly , we observed significantly increased amounts of transcript coding for ULBP2 in absence of IMP3  , but – expectedly – no difference in the levels of ULBP3  . For ULBP2 , about 45% of the initial RNA levels were still present after 16 hr of treatment in the IMP3-knockdown cell lines , but only about 30% in the RKO cell line with a scrambled shRNA  . Therefore , we assumed a direct IMP3 binding to ULBP2 mRNA that decreases RNA half-life . RKO transfected with a scrambled shRNA  or with shIMP3 were treated with D Actinomycin or with DMSO as control . 01 for ULBP2 in student’s t-test; for ULBP3 , no significant differences were observed  . 009 To further demonstrate that IMP3 directly interacts with the 3’UTRs of ULBP2 , we fused the 3’UTRs of ULBP2 and two control UTRs - ULBP3 and CD247 3’UTRs ( we used the 3’UTR of CD247  that seemed unlikely to be affected by IMP3 ) to luciferase genes in the vector pGL3  . The constructs were transiently expressed in RKO shIMP3 cells or RKO scrambled shRNA cells and luciferase activity was determined . Following the knockdown of IMP3 , we observed a significant increase if the luciferase gene was fused to the ULBP2-3’UTR only  . Taking the results of the stability determination in consideration  together with the luciferase assay , we concluded that IMP3 decreases directly the mRNA stability of ULBP2 . Post-transcriptional effects of IMP3 on ULBP2 mRNA assessed by luciferase assay . Schematic representation of the luciferase constructs used for this assay with the 3’UTRs of the ULBP family members including their lengths in nucleotides  . The 3‘UTRs of ULBP 1 , 2 , 3 and CD247  were fused to the luciferase gene as shown in A and expressed in RKO cells transduced either with scrambled shRNA or with shIMP3 . Luciferase assay with the 3’UTR of ULBP2 and shortened variants presented in  , expressed in RKO cells transduced either with scrambled shRNA or with shIMP3 . The luciferase activity of the fragment ranging from 1–100 bp was significantly lower than the activity of the fragment 1–200 bp  , 1 300 bp  , 1–400 bp  and the full 3'UTR   Schematic representation of the ULBP2 3’UTR sequences areas that were mutated . The wild type  or mutated 3’UTRs  of ULBP2 was transiently expressed in RKO cells transduced with scrambled shRNA or with shRNA IMP3 . 010 Next , we wanted to identify the binding site of IMP3 within the 3’UTRs of ULBP2 . We observed that the construct ranging from 1 to 100 base pairs yielded an equal ratio of luciferase activity in RKO shIMP3 and RKO shRNA scrambled  . All other constructs , including the construct ranging from 1 to 200bp , had significantly higher luciferase activities in the IMP3 knockdown cells compared to the shRNA scrambled  . Thus , we concluded that the binding site for IMP3 must be located between 100 and 200bp of the 3’UTR of ULBP2 . used PAR-CLIP technology to identify putative binding sites of RNA binding proteins and proposed the binding motif ‘CAUU’ for IMP3 equivalent to CATT on DNA level  . This motif exists twice in the 3’UTR ULBP2 , at the positions 161–164 and 292–295 of the 3’UTR . Since we determined that the IMP3 binding site in the 3’UTR of ULBP2 is located between 100 and 200 base pairs  , we replaced by PCR the TT nucleotides of the CATT motif found at position 164/165 with GG yielding in CAGG  . Consequently , the ULBP2-3’UTR mutation abrogated the effect of IMP3-dependent luciferase activity  completely . Therefore , we concluded from this assay that there is only a single binding site for IMP3 in the 3’UTR of ULBP2 . Next , we tested the functional relevance of ULBP2 targeting IMP3 . To this end , we co-incubated primary activated bulk NK cells that express the activating receptor NKG2D with RKO , HCT116 and 293T cells expressing shIMP3 or a scrambled shRNA and performed NK cytotoxicity assays . We observed a significantly higher lysis of shIMP3-expressing RKO cells  , HCT116 cells  and 293T cells  consistent with the increased surface expression levels of ULBP2 on RKO and HCT116  and ULBP2 only on 293T  . The observed drastic decrease in NK cell activation was remarkable taking the moderate shift of ULBP2 following knockdown into account . For that reason , effect of IMP3 on the remaining NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB  was investigated as well . Knockdown of IMP3 enhances NK cell-mediated killing of cancer cells in a NKG2D dependent manner . Primary human NK cells were incubated with an isotype antibody  or with anti-hNKG2D monoclonal antibody  for one hour on ice before target cells – either transduced with a control shRNA or shIMP3 – were added . 35S released into the supernatant upon target cell lysis by NK cells , was assessed 3 hr later  35S release by RKO cells co-cultured with NK cells in the ratio 1:25 . 011 To assess if IMP3 affects the expression of MICA and MICB , we stained RKO and 293T cells with IMP3 knockdown or a transduced scrambled control for expression of these NKG2D ligands . Interestingly , we observed an increase of about 50% for MICB following IMP3 knockdown in RKO  , but no effect on MICA . We also validated these results by performing the rescue experiments of IMP3 in these cell lines . In agreement with the KD experiments MICB expression was reduced after the restoration of IMP3 expression in RKO cells and the no effect was seen regarding MICA  . To further confirm that IMP3 affects MICB expression , we overexpressed this RBP in the parental RKO cell line . Consistent with our observations for the surface expression of MICB , we could also detect an elevation MICB , but not MICA , RNA levels in RKO cells following IMP3 knockdown  . Surprisingly , we could neither detect a IMP3-dependent change in stability of the MICB mRNA using D-Actinomycin treatment  nor IMP3-dependent effects on transcript stability , processing or translation efficacy that would be observed in a luciferase experiment  . Consequently , we conclude that the IMP3 uses different mechanisms to affect mRNA and protein levels of ULBP2 and MICB . IMP3 regulates MICB in a functionally distinct mechanism . FACS analysis of MICA and MICB surface expression on RKO and 293T cells . Expression is shown on cells transduced with shIMP3  and on cells transduced with a scrambled shRNA  . Quantification of MICB surface expression of RKO cells transduced either with a scrambled or an IMP3 targeting shRNA . 029 in student’s t-test  FACS analysis of MICB surface protein levels in IMP3 overexpressing RKO cells  or controls  , Shown is one representative experiment of at least three performed ones . Quantification of MICB surface expression of IMP3 overexpressing RKO cells or control cells *P  =1 . RNA levels of MICA and MICB in RKO transduced with an IMP3 targeting shRNA relative to the scrambled shRNA control and normalized to GAPDH . RKO transfected with a scrambled shRNA  or with an IMP3 targeting shRNA were treated with D-Actinomycin or with DMSO as control . The 3‘UTRs of MICA and MICB and CD247  were fused to the luciferase gene and expressed in RKO cells transduced either with scrambled shRNA or with shIMP3 . Rescue IMP3 in RKO and 293T shIMP3 cells reverses MICB downregulation but does not affect MICA expression . RKO and 293T cells transduced with a shRNA targeting IMP3 were selected using puromycin and subsequently transduced with a plasmid coding for IMP3 . FACS analysis of stress-ligand expression MICB and ULBP2 for RKO cells or MICA and ULBP2 in 293T cells is shown . As shown before , MICA is not expressed on RKO cells and 293T cells are negative for MICB . RKO and 293T shIMP3 cells were transduced with either with an empty vector  or rescued with an IMP3 expression plasmid  . In this study , we present a new mechanism of immune escape that is mediated by the well-established oncogene IMP3 . However , expression of IMP3 could be observed in several kinds of cancer like in colon carcinoma  , adenocarcinomas  , urothelial carcinomas  , lymphomas  or renal cell carcinomas  . We demonstrate in several human cell lines of different origins that the knockdown of IMP3 up-regulates surface expression of the NKG2D ligand ULBP2 . Consequently , we observed inverse effects on this stress-ligand following the overexpression of IMP3 . We demonstrate a direct interaction of IMP3 with ULBP2 mRNA . IMP3 was precipitated with biotinylated ULBP2 3’ UTR . We observed an increased half-life of ULBP2 mRNA transcripts and , consequently , elevated luciferase activity in absence of IMP3 . We also showed that only a single binding site for IMP3 in the 3’UTR of ULBP2 at the position 161–164 exists since its mutation abolished differences in IMP3-dependent luciferase activity . We tested the effect of IMP3 on ULBP2 in several cell lines using knockdown and overexpression of this oncogene . The effect on ULBP2 expression in RKO , HCT116 and 293T cells were in a comparable magnitude . The impact of IMP3 was capable of altering ULBP2 expression up to 35% in the cell lines tested . However , we also observed an effect of IMP3 on another stress-induced ligand , MICB . Higher expression levels of IMP3 correlated with a reduction of MICB mRNA and surface expression . In contrast to ULBP2 , we did not observe differences in half-life or a change in the luciferase activity in presence or absence of IMP3 for MICB . Also , the surface expression changes between knockdown and overexpression for ULBP2 and MICB varied tremendously: In the knockdown , the up-regulation of ULBP2 and MICB was more or less similar , but the IMP3 overexpression decreased only moderately ULBP2 expression , but drastically affected MICB expression . Thus , we concluded that the IMP3-dependant alterations in MICB expression are probably indirect . Most likely , IMP3 acts on a so far unidentified transcription factor or regulator that subsequently leads to alterations in MICB gene transcription . Finally , we assessed the functional significance in an in vitro system by co-culturing NK cells with RKO cells , HCT116 cells or 293T cells with or without IMP3 knockdown . For all knockdown cell lines , we observed higher killing compared to the cells with natural levels of IMP3 . Obviously , the widely held belief that IMP3 is a strictly oncofetal gene could be disproved by reports that showed expression both in testis and placenta of healthy individuals  . The recent discoveries about the role in placental trophoblasts might also shed a light on the array of target genes that are known to be affected by IMP3 , for instant CD44 expression that is up-regulated by IMP3 is important in migration of trophoblasts within the placenta . Accordingly , the destabilization of ULBP2 mRNA and regulation of MICB expression described in this study might also protect trophoblasts in the placenta from NK cells , which are the most abundant population of lymphocytes present in the decidua during early pregnancy  . This assumption requires further experimental support; nevertheless , it would explain the protection of cancerous cells by IMP3 expression that we spotlighted . Although we could investigate a new effect of IMP3 , its role in carcinogenesis is still incompletely understood as well . Further research is required to elucidate additional target RNAs that this RNA-binding protein can regulate and to ultimately develop an inhibitor for IMP3 that prevents its impacts on tumor cells . For cancer therapy , IMP3 might be an excellent drug target due to its restricted occurrence in healthy tissues and its widespread occurrence in different kinds of cancer and especially in cases of unfavorable prognosis . In accordance with our results , an inhibition of IMP3 would - next to other potential benefits - lead to an elevated stress ligand expression and thereby enlighten recent approaches of NKG2D ligand-based cancer treatment , for instance , immunotherapy by Natural Killer cell infusion  . RKO is a human colon carcinoma cell line  , HCT116 is a human colorectal carcinoma cell line  , 293T is a human cell line established from embryonic kidney  . The biotinylated RNAs were coupled with streptavidin-sepharose beads  and incubated with cytoplasmic extracts prepared from 80% confluent RKO cells for at least 12 hr . Knockdown of IMP3 was executed with MISSION shRNA clones  for IMP3 in the vector pLKO  . IMP3 mRNA is targeted within the 3’UTR  . Lentiviruses were generated in 293T cells and used for transduction of RKO , 293T and HCT116 that express IMP3 as detected by Western Blot analysis . Next to the transduction of a shRNA specifically targeting IMP3  , a control vector containing a scrambled shRNA was transduced  . 5 µg/mL puromycin in DMEM for HCT116 and 293T cells and 3 µg/mL for RKO cells . The vector containing the coding sequence for IMP3 was a kind donation of Prof . In order to confirm the effects observed in RKO cells , IMP3 was over-expressed as well in HCT116 and 293T cell line without selection of GFP expressing cells . To rescue IMP3 expression in RKO and 293T , cells that stably express the shRNA targeting IMP3 were transduced with an empty vector as control or the vector containing the coding DNA sequence  of IMP3 . Since the shRNA against IMP3 targets the 3’UTR of the mRNA , the overexpression using the CDS only can’t be targeted and downregulated . Lysates of the various RKO , HCT116 and 293T cells were prepared and SDS gel electrophoresis was executed . Proteins were transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane with the tank blot procedure and specific protein bands were detected using antibodies detecting IMP3 ( sc-47893 , Santa Cruz , TX , USA  and 07–104 , Millipore , MA , USA  ) or GAPDH  or Vinculin  as loading control . For Fluorescent Activated Cell Sorting  staining of NKG2D ligands on RKO cells , 3 x 105 were seeded 18 hr prior to analysis in 6-well plates . Cells were gated according to their appearance in forward and side scatter  ; to analyze the effects of the overexpression of IMP3 on stress-ligand expression , only GFP-positive cells were gated  . For quantitative Real Time-PCR , freshly prepared cDNAs were used for SYBR Green-based detection in a QuantStudio 12k Flex Real-time PCR cycler  with primers targeting GAPDH , HPRT , ULBP1 , ULBP2 , ULBP3 , IMP3 , MICA and MICB . GAPDH forward: GAGTCAACGGATTTGGTCGTGAPDH reverse: GATCTCGCTCCTGGAAGATG HPRT forward: TGACACTGGCAAAACAATGCA HPRT reverse: GGTCCTTTTCACCAGCAAGCT ULBP1 forward: GCGTTCCTTCTGTGCCTC ULBP1 reverse: GGCCTTGAACTTCACACCAC ULBP2 forward: CCCTGGGGAAGAAACTAAATGTC ULBP2 reverse: ACTGAACTGCCAAGATCCACTGC ULBP3 forward: AGATGCCTGGGGAAAACAACTG ULBP3 reverse: GTATCCATCGGCTTCACACTCAC IMP3 forward: AGACACCTGATGAGAATGACC IMP3 reverse: GTTTCCTGAGCCTTTACTTCC MICA forward: ATCTTCCCTTTTGCACCTCC MICA reverse: AACCCTGACTGCACAGATCC MICB forward: CTGCTGTTTCTGGCCGTC MICB reverse: ACAGATCCATCCTGGGACAG The 3’UTRs of MICA , MICB , ULBP2 , ULBP3 and CD247 were cloned downstream to a Firefly reporter cassette in the vector pGL3  as described  . 25 x 105 RKO cells transfected with scrambled or IMP3-specific shRNA were seeded into 24-well-plates . For the assessment of differences of luciferase activity of the shortened 3’UTRs of ULBP2 , following UTRs were cloned into pGL3: 1–100 bp  , 1–200 bp , 1–300 bp , 1–400 bp and full length UTR  . 1 x 105 RKO cells were seeded and the following day transfected with constructs coding for these shortened UTRs . For the binding site analysis of IMP3 in ULBP2-3’UTR , the putative-binding motif CATT at position 162 – 165 was mutated into CAGG to prevent binding of IMP3 to the RNA . 1 x 105 RKO cells were transfected with the unchanged , wild type UTR of ULBP2 or the CAGG-mutated UTR and harvested 28 hr post transfection . For the transcription inhibition with D-Actinomycin , RKO cells transfected with a scrambled or IMP3 specific shRNA were seeded in a density of 2 . For analysis , we defined the level of a specific mRNA in the DMSO-treated control cells  in both the scrambled shRNA- and shIMP3-transduced cells as 1 . By calculating the ratio of mRNA level after 16 hr D-Actinomycin treatment and 16 hr DMSO treatment , we assessed the rate of mRNA decay in dependence of IMP3 . Separated NK cells were activated by co-cultivation with 50 000 irradiated PBMCs of two autologous donors , 5 000 irradiated 8866 B cell lymphoma cells and 0 . For the 35S release assay , 2 x 105 of the transduced RKO , HCT116 and 293T cells were labeled with 1 µCi/mL EasyTag L--Methionine  in methionine-free RPMI for about 12 hr . After removing excess labeling solution , NK cells were co-incubated with the labeled RKO cells in the ratio 25:1 , with labeled HCT116 or 293T cells in the ratio 10:1 . Spontaneous release was assessed by culturing labeled RKO cells without NK cells; total release was assessed by adding 150 µl 1M NaOH to RKO cells to lyse all cells . "
"Two sub-populations comprise our model: nomads , who live independently without competition or cooperation , and colonists , who engage in competition , cooperation , and long-term habitat destruction . Nomads and colonists may alternate behaviors in response to changes in the colonial habitat . Even when nomadism and colonialism individually lead to extinction , switching between these strategies at the appropriate moments can paradoxically enable both population persistence and long-term growth . Two sub-populations comprise our model: the nomadic organisms , and the colonial ones . In a similar vein to habitat-patch models , organisms that exist in multiple sub-populations can be modelled as follows:  d⁢nid⁢t=gi⁢  +∑jsi⁢j⁢nj-∑jsj⁢i⁢niwhere ni is the size of sub-population i , gi is the function describing the growth rate of ni in isolation , and si⁢j is the rate of switching to sub-population i from sub-population j . In the absence of behavioral switching , the nomadic growth rate is given by  g1⁢  =-r1⁢n1where r1 is the nomadic growth constant . Colonial population dynamics will be modelled by the well-known logistic equation , with carrying capacity K , but with two important modifications . This serves two roles: it captures the cooperative effects that occur among colonial organisms , and it ensures that the growth rate is negative when the population falls below a critical capacity A . Let n2 be the colonial population size . In the absence of behavioral switching , the colonial growth rate is given by  g2  =r2n2 ( n2min  −1 )  where r2 is the colonial growth constant . Secondly , the carrying capacity K changes at a rate dependent upon the colonial population size , n2 , accounting for the destruction of environmental resources over the long run . In the context of Parrondo’s paradox , colonialism can thus serve as a ‘ratcheting’ strategy , or Game B , because the rate of growth is implicitly dependent upon the colonial population in the past . Here , we model organisms that switch to nomadic behavior from colonial behavior when the carrying capacity is low  , and switch to colonial behavior from nomadic behavior when the carrying capacity is high  , where L1≤L2 are the switching levels . Using the notation from Equation 1 , switching rates can then be expressed as follows:  s12={rsif K < L10otherwises21={rsif K > L20otherwise A variety of mechanisms might trigger this switching behavior in biological systems . For example , since the nomadic organisms are highly mobile , they could frequently re-enter their original colonial habitat after leaving it , and thus be able to detect whether resource levels are high enough for recolonization . For example , if r2≫1 , this means that colonial growth occurs much faster than habitat destruction . Similarly , the separation between the behavioral switching dynamics and the population growth dynamics can be achieved by setting rs≫r1 , r2 . As described earlier , both nomadic and colonial behaviors can be modelled as losing strategies given the appropriate parameters . Figure 1a shows an example when both strategies are losing , resulting in extinction , while Figure 1b shows an example where only the colonial sub-population survives . It is clear from Equation 2 that the growth rate of the nomadic population n1 is always negative , because of the restriction that r1 > 0 . However , the conditions under which colonial behavior is a losing strategy are more complicated . When A < 1 , the colonial population n2 increases until it reaches the carrying capacity K , following which they converge in tandem until stabilizing at the critical population size , n2=K=1 . Paradoxically , it is possible to combine these two strategies through behavioral switching such that population survival is ensured , thereby producing an overall strategy that wins . Figure 2a is a typical example where the population becomes extinct , even though it undergoes behavioral switching , while Figure 2b is a typical example where behavioral switching ensures population survival . Conceptually , this paradoxical survival is possible because the colonial strategy , or Game B , is history-dependent . In particular , the colonial growth rate d⁢n2/d⁢t is dependent upon the carrying capacity K , which in turn is dependent upon previous levels of n2 . Behavioral switching to a nomadic strategy decreases the colonial population size , allowing the resources in the colonial environment , represented by K , to recover . Switching back to a colonial strategy then allows the population to take advantage of the newly generated resources . In the nomadic phase , the colonial population n2 is close to zero , the nomadic population n1 undergoes slow exponential decay , and the carrying capacity K undergoes slow linear growth . K increases until it reaches L2 , which triggers the switch to colonial behavior . The population thus enters the colonial phase . If the colonial population n2 exceeds the critical capacity A at this point , then n2 will grow until it slightly exceeds the carrying capacity K . Subsequently , n2 decreases in the tandem with K until K drops to L1 , triggering the switch back to the nomadic phase . However , if n2 < A when the colonial phase begins , the colonial population goes extinct , as can be seen in Figure 2a . Hence , a basic condition for survival is that n2≥A at the start of each colonial phase . Under the reasonable assumption that the rate of behavioral switching is much faster than either colonial or nomadic growth  , it can be shown more precisely that at the end of the nomadic phase , n1 needs to be greater than a critical level B , which is related to A by the equation:  A=B−  W0  A full derivation is provided in the Appendix  . The greater the difference between the switching levels , the longer the nomadic phase will last , because it takes more time for K to increase to the requisite value for switching , L2 . If , at the end of the nomadic phase , the value that n1 decays to happens to be less than B , then the population will fail to survive . Under the same assumption that rs≫r1 , r2 , such a constraint can be derived:  L2 < L1+1r1ln⁡L1+W0  B Survival is ensured given the following additional condition:  There exists t∗≥t0:n2  =K  ≥L1where t0 marks the start of an arbitrary colonial phase , and t* marks the time of intersection between n2 and K during that phase . In other words , n2 has to grow sufficiently quickly during the colonial phase such that it exceeds both K and L1 before switching begins . In accordance with intuition , numerical simulations predict that this occurs when the colonial growth constant is sufficiently large  , as can be seen in the Figures . This suggests that given a sufficiently well-designed switching rule , K can grow larger over time while ensuring population survival . Suppose that , in addition to being able to detect the colonial carrying capacity , nomads and colonists are able to detect or estimate their current population size . The following switching rule then becomes possible:  When n2=K , dn2/dt > 0 , set L1=K , L2=∞When n1=B , dn1/dt < 0 , set L2=K That is , L1 is set to the carrying capacity K whenever n2 rises to K , resulting immediately in a switch to nomadic behavior , and that L2 is in turn set to K whenever n1 falls to B , resulting in an immediate switch to colonial behavior . Firstly , by switching to nomadic behavior just as n2 reaches K , it ensures that d⁢n2/d⁢t≥0 for the entirety of the colonial phase . As such , it avoids the later portion of the colonial phase where K and n2 decrease in tandem , and maximizes the ending value n2 . Furthermore , by switching to colonial behavior right when n1 decays to B , the rule maximizes the duration of the nomadic phase while ensuring survival . This in turn means that the growth of K is maximized , since the longer the nomadic phase , the longer that K is allowed to grow . It plays Game A , the nomadic strategy , for as long as possible , in order to maximize K and hence the returns from Game B . And then it switches to Game B , the colonial strategy , only for as long as the returns are positive  , thereby using it as a kind of ratchet . Suppose that K grows more during each nomadic phase than it falls during each colonial phase . In the cases shown , long-term growth is achieved because K indeed grows more during each nomadic phase than it falls during the subsequent colonial phase . As can be seen from Figure 3a , this is , in turn , because the nomadic phase lasts much longer than the colonial phase , such that the amount of environmental destruction due to colonialism is limited . Simulation results predict that this generally occurs as long as the colonial growth rate is sufficiently large  . An interesting phenomenon that can be observed from Figure 3b is how the nomadic population size n1 , which peaks at the start of each nomadic phase , eventually exceeds the carrying capacity K , and then continues doing so by increasing amounts at each peak . When n2 grows large , the assumption that switching is much faster than colonial growth starts to break down . The result is that when a large colonial population begins switching to nomadism , a significant number of colonial offspring are simultaneously being produced . These offspring also end up switching to a nomadic strategy , resulting in more nomadic organisms than there were colonial organisms before . Normally , switching to nomadic behavior starts when K falls below L1 , and ends when K rises above it again . But when n2 is sufficiently large , the faster production of colonial offspring drags out the duration of switching , as seen in Figure 4 . Under the conditions of fast colonial growth and even faster switching  , these gains are several orders of magnitude larger than the initial population levels , a huge departure from the long-term extinction that occurs in purely colonial or nomadic populations . For example , in many biological systems , the dynamics of habitat change might occur on a slower timescale than both colonial and nomadic growth  . This can be achieved by modifying Equation 6 as follows:  dKdt=   Figure 6 already takes this constraint into account , showing that survival through periodic alternation is achievable under both bounded carrying capacity and slow habitat change , as long as the maximum carrying capacity is sufficiently high  . In particular , any growth model that is devoid of competitive or collaborative effects is readily captured by Equation 2  , while any logistic growth model which includes both the Allee effect and habitat destruction can be described using Equations 3 and 4  . By incorporating this into our model , we have demonstrated that nomadic-colonial alternation can ensure the survival of a species , even when nomadism or colonialism alone would lead to extinction . The switching rules which lead to survival and long-term growth are analogous to the periodic alternation between games that produces a winning expectation in Parrondo’s paradox . This is because assuming individually losing strategies in fact leads to a stronger result – if losing variants of nomadism and colonialism can be combined into a winning strategy , it follows that non-losing variants can be combined in a similar way too  . Even the presence of the Allee effect is not strictly necessary , since the colonial population might die off at low levels because of stochastic fluctuations , rather than because of the effect . 7 in the Appendix also demonstrates that paradoxical behavior can occur even without the Allee effect causing long-term death of the colonial population . Thirdly , though it is trivially the case that pure nomadism and pure colonialism cannot out-compete a behaviorally-switching population , a more complex analysis of the evolutionary stability of behavioral switching is beyond the scope of this paper . Not only could it provide evolutionary insight into strategies analogous to nomadism , colonialism , and behavioral diversification , it potentially also explains why environmentally destructive species , such as Homo sapiens , can thrive and grow despite limited environmental resources . "
"This requires the animal to derive allocentric spatial information from egocentric sensory and motor experience . We conducted the first neural recordings in the preglomerular complex , the thalamic region exclusively connecting the optic tectum with the spatial learning circuits in the dorsolateral pallium . While tectal topographic information was mostly eliminated in preglomerular neurons , the time-intervals between object encounters were precisely encoded . We show that this reliable temporal information , combined with a speed signal , can permit accurate estimation of the distance between encounters , a necessary component of path-integration that enables computing allocentric spatial relations . The information animals use to generate such allocentric knowledge include sensory experiences collected during object encounters  and motor actions  executed between such encounters; utilization of these motor variables in spatial learning and navigation is termed path integration  . Unravelling the neural operations underlying the transformation of egocentric sensory and motor information streams into an allocentric representation of the environment has been a central theme in studies of spatial learning and navigation . While these studies in the simpler nervous system of the fly are now closer to providing a mechanistic explanation of how egocentric and external  inputs are combined , it is not clear if the fly has a full representation of the allocentric relations of different environmental features . Teleost fish offer an attractive model for studying this question , as their related brain circuitry is relatively tractable: lesion studies point to the dorsolateral pallium  as the key telencephalic region required for allocentric spatial learning  , similarly to the medial cortex in reptiles and the hippocampus in mammals  . Importantly , DL receives sensory and motor information related to electrosensory and visual object motion from OT  via a single structure – the diencephalic preglomerular complex  . The tectal recipient portion of PG projects solely to DL  in agreement with the lesion studies . Importantly , PG receives very little feedback from areas associated with DL  and therefore functions as an exclusive feed-forward bottleneck between OT and the pallium . We hypothesize that egocentric object-related information  conveyed by PG to DL , is converted to a learned allocentric spatial map by the recurrent circuitry of DL , DD and DC; DC , in turn , then controls the fish’s spatial behavior via its projections to OT . We first examined the spatial representation in PG cells by measuring their receptive fields  . The OT electrosensory cells driving PG have spatially-restricted , topographically organized RFs  , and thus provide labeled-line information on the egocentric position of objects . In PG , by contrast , only 11% of the cells  were topographic with a spatially restricted RF  ; the majority of PG cells  responded across most or all of the fish’s body  . Therefore , PG activity does not convey a topographic ‘labeled-line’ code of object position . We also checked whether object location is encoded by the firing-rate of PG neurons  . The firing-rate was significantly correlated with object position only in one non-topographic cell  . Similarly , mutual information between object position and firing-rate was significant only in two non-topographic cells  . Therefore , almost all PG cells have whole-body RFs and lack topographic spatial information– the hallmark of all electrosensory regions from the sensory periphery up to OT . However , we cannot absolutely determine whether the subset of topographic cells represent a small distinct sub-nucleus or are sparsely distributed throughout the PG complex . Next , we checked what information PG neurons convey about object motion . OT cells , which drive PG , respond to an object moved parallel to the fish  while the object traverses their RFs  . Rather , the majority of PG units  exhibited a strikingly different behavior , emitting a brief burst response confined to the onset  of object motion , but not during motion itself  . Interestingly , we have encountered several lateral-line responsive PG units that , unlike most of their electrosensory counterparts , did respond persistently throughout  object motion  . Three types of responses to such motion were identified: proximity detection , encounter detection , and motion-change detection; 50%  displayed more than one type of response . Proximity detectors  responded when an object was encountered very close to the skin  ; encounter detectors  responded when an object either entered to or departed from their electroreceptive range  ; lastly , motion-change detectors  displayed a response similar to that observed in longitudinal motion , firing at the onset/offset of motion  ; remarkably , this type of response was relatively distance-invariant , yielding comparable responses both very close to  and very far from  the skin despite the drastic effects of distance on both the magnitude and spread of the object’s electrical image  . This discrete , nearly stereotypic response stands in contrast to the finely-tuned rate code of object distance previously reported in the primary electrosensory cells in ELL  . Taken together , the variety of PG response-types mentioned above may constitute a distributed representation of object proximity . Unlike the loss of egocentric topographic mapping discussed in the previous section , this representation does provide DL with coarse-grained , non-directional egocentric information . We conclude that PG electrosensory cells predominantly respond to novelty: onset/offset of object motion within their receptive field or the introduction/removal of objects into/from this receptive field; we use the term object encounters to designate all such events . Most PG cells responded both to conductive and non-conductive objects  and would therefore not discriminate between different object types , for example , plants versus rocks . We can , therefore , infer that during active exploration of the environment , PG reports to the dorsal pallium whenever the fish encounters or leaves a prey or a landmark  or alters its swimming trajectory near a landmark . While topographic egocentric information was scarce in PG , temporal information was prevalent . Many of the PG cells exhibited pronounced adaptation to repeated motion  . We delivered a sequence of object encounters  ; time-intervals between sequential encounters were drawn randomly and independently  . The response intensity  of these adapting cells to each encounter was strongly correlated with the time-interval immediately prior to that encounter  . Thus , a large subset of PG cells encoded the duration of the time-interval preceding the last encounter – but did not convey information about the intervals prior to that . Moreover , a spatial ‘oddball’ experiment  , which we conducted on 14 neurons  revealed that this adaptation is also spatially non-specific – that is , encounters at one body location adapt the response to encounters at all other locations  . Therefore , this thalamic adaptation mechanism enables neurons to encode the time between the two most recent successive stimuli , without contamination by prior encounter history and irrespective of the objects’ egocentric position . Can the sequence of time intervals between encounters be accurately decoded from the activity of the adapting PG cells ? This model assumes each cell’s responsiveness is governed by a resource variable x which is depleted following each encounter and recovers exponentially between encounters  . For such a cell , therefore , the firing rate increases monotonically as a function of the last time interval  regardless of past intervals . Note , however , that this largely reflects the range explored with our stimulation protocol  ; it is quite probable that PG contains faster cells  that appear to be ‘non-adapting’ under this protocol , as well as slower cells  that quickly cease responding and were therefore not recorded from . Using this model , we simulated the response of a population of adapting PG cells to random interval sequences . A Maximum-Likelihood Estimator  was used to decode the most recent interval from the population response to each encounter . At intervals shorter than the cells’ adaptation time-constant τ the MLE was approximately unbiased  and saturated the Cramér-Rao lower error bound  . We conclude that the response of the majority of PG adapting cells to an encounter can be used to estimate the time interval elapsed prior to that encounter , using a simple , memoryless decoder . Can PG activity be used to explain features of spatial behavior in freely-swimming electric fish ? To check this possibility , we must first measure the time-intervals being memorized by fish conducting a spatial learning task , as well as the error in the fish’s estimation of these intervals . Since only the short-range electrosense was available to the fish , they had to use path-integration from the encountered objects to the food location . In other words , the fish had to memorize the intervals/distances between these encounters in order to improve its behavioral performance and find the food more efficiently . Therefore , we measured the time-interval and the distance traveled by the trained fish from the last encounter with an object  to the food in each trial , either with  or without landmarks  . Dividing this error by the median velocity in each trial yielded the temporal error , that is the error in the fish’s estimation of the time elapsed between object encounters and the estimated food location  . PG is the only source of sensory information for the dorsolateral pallium  , the likely site of spatial memory  . Therefore , we hypothesized that the history-independent adapting PG cells provide DL with one necessary component for path integration: the temporal sequence of object encounters  . How many adapting PG cells are required to achieve the behavioral temporal acuity observed as described above ? We also performed the comparison in spatial terms by using the fishes’ average velocity to convert the model’s results into units of distance  . The simulated PG population yielded temporal and spatial estimation errors comparable to those displayed in behavior  , both with and without landmarks , using only ~500 adapting cells . The lateral subdivision of PG  , in which most motion-responsive cells were found , contains about 60 , 000 cells  . Taken together , our simulations suggest that time-interval encoding in PG can consistently account for the observed behavioral precision of spatial learning . Our results suggest the following space-to-time transformation scheme: PG derives a sequence of discrete novelty events  from OT activity . The remarkable history-independent adaptation process provides an accessible , accurate and unbiased representation of the time intervals between encounters . We have found visually-responsive PG cells displaying similar adaptation features  , suggesting that this mechanism is implemented across multiple sensory modalities . The elimination of egocentric topographic information in PG – both in the response itself and in its adaptation – ensures that the encoding of time is invariant to the specific body part encountering the object . This temporal information is then transmitted to DL , which can use it to integrate the fish’s swim velocity to obtain distance-traveled , a key allocentric variable . For fish , the necessary velocity information may be provided by the lateral-line system  ; several lateral-line responsive PG units were encountered in our recordings  . Finally , DL can combine the distance information with instantaneous heading-direction  to yield the animal’s allocentric spatial position  . Our computational analysis demonstrates that the PG temporal information is sufficient to account for the spatial acuity displayed in behavioral studies of gymnotiform fish utilizing electrosensory information alone  . Short-range sensing , used by ancestor species living in low-visibility environments , necessitated the perception of space through temporal sequences of object encounters . The neural mechanisms implementing sequential  spatial inference and simultaneous spatial inference presumably both exist in mammals , for example , we can acquire a map of relative object locations by looking at a scene from afar , or by walking and sequentially encountering landmarks with our eyes closed . The population of thalamic neurons that we discovered may provide an essential component underlying one of these two major computations – the encoding of sequential temporal information – and we hypothesize that such neurons underlie sequential spatial learning in all vertebrates . The thalamic pulvinar nucleus is particularly similar to PG in that it receives direct tectal input  . demonstrated that posterior thalamic regions  can implement interval timing computations over long time-scales  ; however , the mechanistic basis for these computations has not been identified  and potential contributions to path integration have not been explicated . Further studies will be required to determine whether the novel adaptation encoding mechanism in PG engages the downstream recurrent networks of DD and DL to produce refined estimates of the time interval between salient sensory and/or motor events . Finally , a recent study in rodents demonstrated spatially non-specific adaptation in VPM  , a posterior thalamic nucleus responding to vibrissal object encounters  . Taken together , we hypothesize that thalamic space-to-time mechanisms akin to those presented here play an important role in mammalian sequential spatial learning , especially in nocturnal animals relying on sparse sensory cues  . The telencephalic target of PG , DL , resembles the mammalian hippocampus not only in function , as revealed in lesion studies  , but also in development , gross circuitry and gene expression  . The role of the hippocampus in spatial learning and navigation is well established , and hippocampal neural correlates of allocentric spatial variables have been exquisitely described  . There is also evidence for the importance of time coding in the mammalian hippocampus: ‘Time cells’ responsive to elapsed time have been reported and , in some cases , these cells also respond at specific spatial loci  . The mechanism we have found may therefore contribute to creating temporal coding in the hippocampus , not just in the context of egocentric-to-allocentric transformations but rather whenever expectations associated with specific time intervals need to be generated . It should be noted , however , that unlike DL’s direct thalamic input via the PG bottleneck , the hippocampus receives sensory and motor information primarily via the cortex . We propose that this transformation is initiated in the mammalian thalamus where history-independent adaptation also encodes time between encounter events . Behaviorally , our model implies that the fish's sense of position is critically dependent on its last encounter with an object . Further behavioral studies of spatial learning could elucidate this relationship , for example , by manipulating the objects' arrangement relative to the navigation target . Combining these studies with chronic recordings of PG and its pallial targets in freely navigating fish will permit testing of our proposed space-to-time neural transformation scheme . PG units were usually encountered between 2800 µm and 3400 µm ventral to the top of the cerebellum , and were easily identified due to their characteristic rapid spike bursts  . We report on the responses of 84 PG neurons responsive to object motion; several motion protocols were used and the sample size for each protocol is mentioned in context . We also found PG cells responding to electrocommunication signals , mostly within the medial subdivision of PG  . As expected from the sparse retinal input to OT  , we recorded only a small number  of PG cells responsive to visual input  , mostly in more ventral portions of PG  . Typically , a trapezoidal velocity profile was used with 150 cm/s2 acceleration and 5 cm/s peak velocity , and total distance in either direction of 8 cm  or 5 cm  ; due to technical limitations , each cell was recorded using only one direction of motion  . In order to measure the receptive field  size , we used one motor to repeatedly perform transverse object motion  while a second motor was used to randomly change the longitudinal position between repetitions . To check the spatial specificity of the adaptation process  , we performed a spatial oddball experiment: First , a series of N ‘standard’ encounters  were given in rapid succession at one location  ; the  th encounter was given at a different location  while maintaining the same time-interval between encounters  . PG and DL brain regions were superficially located  , identified , dissected out and stored at −20°C . The random interval protocol  produced for each cell an interval  vector  and a spike count response  vector   . The model  assumes each neuron has a latent state variable x with dynamics following each encounter given byxn=1−e−Tnτ  where Tn is the nth time interval in the sequence , β is the memory coefficient  and τ the recovery time-constant . Finally ,  were used as the parameters of Poisson random variables to generate stochastic spike-counts  , so that the number of spikes emitted at each encounter was distributed according to:  p  =λnk e−λnk ! , k=0 , 1 , 2 , 3… Now we assume a population of N history-independent  neurons , with aj , cj , and τj are the individual parameters of the jth neuron and Rnj is its response to the nth encounter . The likelihood of this population response is thereforeLTn|Rnj=PRnj|Tn=∏j=1Naj1-e-Tnτj+cj+Rnje-aj1-e-Tnτj+cj+Rnj ! , and the log-likelihood islTn|Rnj=∑j=1NRnjlog⁡aj1-e-Tnτj+cj+-aj1-e-Tnτj+cj+-log⁡Rnj ! The Maximum-Likelihood Estimator of the last time interval is therefore obtained by finding the time interval Tn that maximizes this likelihood:TnMLE=argmaxTn>0 ( ∑j=1NRnjlog ( + ) −+ ) . Assuming for a moment a  +c>0 , the MLE for the population is the solution of:  dl  dTn=∑j=1Na  ( 1−Rnja  +c ) =0N-∑j=1NRnja1-e-TnMLEτ+c=0a+c-1N∑j=1NRnj=ae-TnMLEτTnMLE=-τlog⁡a+c-1N∑j=1NRnja=τlog⁡aa+c-1N∑j=1NRnj One can easily show that this solution indeed maintains a  +c>0 . However , if we assume T≪τ , then we can approximate:TnMLE≅τ1N∑j=1NRnj-cafor which:ERnjTnMLE≅τλn-ca= τaxn+c-ca=τ1-e-Tnτ≅Tn To compute the Fisher information for any time T>0 , recall the identity: I  =−E , T ) dT2}=−E , where the sum is restricted to those neurons with positive activity on that value of T , that is ,  . with rate λj=aj1-e-Tτj+cj:IT=∑jaj2τj2aj1-e-Tτj+cje-2Tτj For a homogeneous population  , this becomes:IT=a2Nτ2a1-e-Tτ+c+e-2Tτ Therefore , the CRLB  becomes:VarTmle≥∑jaj2τj2aj1-e-Tτj+cje-2Tτj-1 The set of parameter values obtained for all 15 fitted adapting cells  were randomly drawn from to generate a bootstrap population of N cells  . We also assumed that spiking across the population was statistically independent with Poisson statistics given the last interval , that is pRni , Rnj|Tn=pRni , |TnpRnj , |Tn where Rni is the response of neuron i to time interval n . Random intervals were drawn in the range 1–30 s , and for each interval a vector of responses  across the population Rnjj=1N was generated , where N is the population size . A total of four fish were used with landmarks and eight fish were used without landmarks . The cruising time/distance from the last encounter  to the location of the food is the epoch/trajectory the fish had to memorize in order to perform path integration . This was measured in each of the ‘food’ trials  ; the segment from the last encounter  to the detection of food  was found and the trajectory’s total length and duration were computed . The spatial ‘decoding’ errors were obtained by measuring where the fish searched for the missing food in the probe trials  ; the normalized histogram of the visiting frequency across space  was fitted with a two-dimensional Gaussian function:Px , y=A∙exp-121-θ2x-μx2σx2+y-μy2σy2-2θx-μxy-μyσxσywhere μx and μy are mean parameters; σx and σy are variance parameters; A is a gain parameter and θ is the cross correlation parameter . The distance between the Gaussian center   and the food location  is the spatial error; dividing this error by the median velocity in the trial produces the temporal error . "
"Prior studies have shown that high-frequency activity  is modulated by the phase of low-frequency activity . This phenomenon of phase-amplitude coupling  is often interpreted as reflecting phase coding of neural representations , although evidence for this link is still lacking in humans . Here , we show that PAC indeed supports phase-dependent stimulus representations for categories . Analyzing 167 electrodes , we observed PAC at 43% of electrodes . Further inspection of PAC revealed that category specific HFA modulations occurred at different phases and frequencies of the underlying low-frequency rhythm , permitting decoding of categorical information using the phase at which HFA events occurred . These results provide evidence for categorical phase-coded neural representations and are the first to show that PAC coincides with phase-dependent coding in the human brain . Several recent studies have shown that these two signals are positively correlated  and are each modulated by the phase of low frequency oscillations   . This modulation is detectable as phase-amplitude coupling  of gamma amplitude to LFO phase  . Together , these findings have motivated models positing that LFO phase may organize cell assemblies  , a form of phase coding  . Supporting this view , LFO phase can be used to decode behaviorally relevant information  and phase coded neural activity has been demonstrated in rodents  and monkeys  . Although the PAC observed in humans  has been thought to reflect phase-coding , this assumption has yet to be validated because prior studies have not investigated the relation between PAC and decoding from LFO phases . We have recently proposed that the frequency-specific phase of LFO coordinates neural firing to support neural representations  . Here , we tested this prediction , a form of the phase-coding hypothesis in humans , by examining the relation between PAC and neural representations for categories . First , we identified PAC on individual electrodes by using a recently developed metric which allows for the characterization of PAC across individual HFA events . On electrodes exhibiting PAC , we then assessed the distinctiveness of each category's phase-coded representation during periods with and without pronounced HFA . Our results suggest that during periods with pronounced HFA , categorical representations can be recovered based on the phase of low-frequency oscillations , supporting the idea of phase-coded neural representations in humans . Testing the phase-coding hypothesis , we asked if high frequency activity occurred during category-specific phases of the modulatory LFO . Figure 3A shows two traces from an example electrode which are color-coded by the instantaneous phase at Fmax . HFA windows  occurred during different modulatory phases depending on stimulus category . On this electrode , phases extracted during HFA windows were clustered for each category to different phases , resulting in category-specific phase-clustering  . Similar findings were observed in other patients  , and appeared distinct from representations using power or phase  . HFA occurs at category-specific low-frequency phases . Two example trials from patient #6 demonstrating that HFA windows occur at different phases for different categories . HFA windows are indicated by the boxes , color-coded by the 1 Hz phase at which they occur . Categorical phase-clustering to different phases was prominent at Fmax , allowing for the decoding of categorical information based on the phase at which HFA events occur . Another example , from a different patient  , showing phase-clustered HFA windows for different categories  along with DSs  . Proportion of electrodes in each patient showing category specific phase-clustered HFA . Average absolute phase difference across categories and electrodes for increasingly distinct phase representations  . Circular distribution of phases for each level of DS , pooled over electrodes and categories . Phase coded representations were equally likely to occur at each phase . Decoding categorical information using delta power , phase , or HFA power on example electrode shown in Figure 3A–B . Time-resolved and trial-averaged values for delta power  , phase  , or HFA  power  . HFA windows , color coded by 1 Hz phase , for each category . Note that although some categorical information can be recovered when considering delta power , phase , or HFA power , these effects do not correspond to HFA time windows and more categorical information exists in the phase at which HFA windows occur  . Decoding categorical information using delta power , phase , or HFA power on example electrode shown in Figure 3C . Proportion of 167 electrodes showing significant phase-clustering  exclusively for houses , tools , scenes , or faces as a function of time and frequency . 012 These findings imply that representations might occur by the category-specific phase at which HFA events occur . In order to further quantify this effect , we developed a simple metric , the difference score  , which allowed us to identify the distinctiveness of each category's phase distribution during HFA windows . We applied this metric to the subset of 63 PAC+ electrodes showing significant phase-clustered HFA for each category . This was necessary in order to exclude spurious phase differences between categories occurring in the absence of phase clustering . Across all patients , 78%  of PAC+ electrodes showed a unique phase-clustering profile for one category compared with each other category  . We next calculated the average phase difference between categories , expecting this measure to increase with increasing DS . Indeed , categories with larger DSs exhibited larger phase differences with other categories such that maximally distinct representations were 35° phase offset from all other categories  . Nonetheless , on individual electrodes or for individual categories , HFA could occur at different phases . In fact , across electrodes , phase-coding was equally likely to occur at all phases and for all categories; phase-coded categories were not clustered at particular phases at any level of DS  and phase-coding was equally likely for each category ( χ2  = 1 . Thus , a large proportion of PAC+ electrodes also show category-specific phase clustering of HFA events to different phases  , suggesting that PAC is related to phase-coding  . Green electrodes  only showed significant PAC . Yellow electrodes  showed significant PAC and phase-clustering of HFA for all 4 categories . Red electrodes  showed significant PAC , phase-clustering for all 4 categories , and phase-coding of high-frequency activity  . 013 To link these findings more directly to neural coding , we used pattern classification to determine if the phase at which HFA events occur is sufficient to recover categorical information  . As expected from the analysis using DS , 42  electrodes showed significant decoding accuracy  compared to category label shuffled surrogates and this proportion was significantly higher than would be expected by chance  . Next , we assessed whether phase-coding of categorical information indeed depended on HFA , as would be expected if PAC supports phase-coding . We compared decoding accuracy during HFA events to decoding accuracy during randomly selected surrogate events . 19  electrodes showed significantly higher decoding accuracy during HFA events as compared to random event surrogates , and this proportion was significantly higher than would be expected by chance  . Moreover , 17  electrodes showed significant enhancements of decoding accuracy during HFA events relative to both label and event shuffled surrogates , with at least two electrodes in each patient showing this pattern . These findings complement the above results using DS and indicate that the phase at which HFA events occur carries sufficient information to decode image category , suggesting such information may be a relevant component of the neural code . First , if slow oscillatory phase relates to category-specific representations , we expect phase-locking across trials to different categories . We observed significant phase locking on many electrodes to specific categories  , similar to previous studies which have identified phase-locked activity  . Second , we excluded the possibility that our PAC+ or phase-clustering inclusion criteria biased our findings by computing a composite measure of phase representation  on each electrode  . This analysis again revealed that phase coding is largest on PAC+ electrodes and is enhanced during HFA windows . Third , for comparison with prior PAC methods , we recomputed PAC using the modulation index  in different low-frequency bands , again finding PAC that was most prevalent in the delta band  . We therefore recalculated phase-clustering and DS at the minimum modulatory frequency  using the same criteria detailed above . As one would expect , on PAC+ electrodes , phase clustering was larger at FMAX compared to at FMIN , both on individual electrodes  and at the group level ( Figure 4C; paired t-test on resultant vector lengths , t  = 8 , p < 10−10 , Cohen's d = 0 . Moreover , only 20%  of PAC+ electrodes showed significant phase-clustering at FMIN for all 4 categories and only 1 electrode showed category-selective phase-clustering of HFA events . Given that the phase of slower frequencies varies less over time and that we primarily identified Fmax at slow frequencies , this result might be biased towards finding enhanced phase clustering at Fmax . Taken together , these results support the conclusion that HFA at distinct phases and frequencies reflect representations for different categories . HFA clusters to specific phases and frequencies for different categories . Example electrode showing phase clustering at the maximum modulatory signal  but not at the minimum modulatory signal  . HFA events are marked in color as the phase of the oscillation at the respective frequencies . At the group level , phase clustering was more prominent at the maximum frequency  compared to the minimum frequency  across categories and PAC+ electrodes . Average Fmax and Fmin values for PAC+ electrodes in individual subjects . Phase-locked activity as a function of frequency and electrode . We calculated the resultant vector length for each category , summed these values across categories , and divided by the maximum value of 4 . If our analysis was biased towards observing effects at slow frequencies , we would expect a smooth gradient of large phase clustering values at low frequencies , trailing off to smaller values at higher frequencies . We tested the hypothesis that PAC reflects a phase-coding mechanism , measuring both PAC and categorical PR in intracranial recordings from six patients who viewed pictures from different categories . Our analyses show that on a large subset of electrodes showing PAC , the frequency-specific phase at which HFA occurs varies with categorical information . Therefore , to the extent that HFA reflects increases in local neuronal activity  , our results suggest that neural representations for categories might occur by the phase at which neurons fire . These findings thus provide a novel link between PAC and phase-coded neural representations in humans . Critically , although PAC and phase-coded representations share some attributes , such as phase-clustering of activity , they are not necessarily identical processes . High frequency activity could occur at particular phases of LFOs , as reflected by PAC , but these phases may not vary with stimulus category  . In other words , there could be PAC without phase coding . On the other hand , categorical information may be represented by specific low-frequency phases independent of HFA , leading to DS without phase-clustering across HFA events  . We did not find a complete overlap between PAC+ and phase-coding electrodes , indicating that each can occur in isolation , but instead found a compromise between these extremes  . These results suggest that PAC in many cases reflects phase coding because of the significant overlap between the two phenomena  . Phase-coding , in the form of phase-modulated neuronal firing , has been identified in rodents , monkeys , and humans  . Although the mechanisms which guide such a neuronal phase preference remain poorly understood , previous studies have found enhanced PAC during learning and memory tasks  . Our findings provide a potentially unifying account of these observations , suggesting that PAC may be promoting the formation of phase-coded neural assemblies  . Follow-up studies will need to test this account of PAC as it relates to other putative roles for PAC  . While epilepsy is marked by increased synchronized neuronal activity which could potentially manifest as HFA or PAC , we believe several factors weigh against this interpretation . Finally , it seems unlikely that epileptic activity at different phases would systematically differ by category . Follow-up studies should test the generalizability of these findings using more exemplars within a category and using other categories . PAC has typically been investigated using pre-defined low and high-frequency filters which may optimize statistical power for detecting PAC but do not adequately deal with the time-resolved nature of cognition  . Here , we leveraged a recent method which can identify PAC and subsequently test mechanistically interesting questions related to the modulation of HFA , such as its temporal profile and its dependence on phase , frequency , and behavioral requirements . Notably , this method may conservatively estimate PAC because it is based on transient increases in HFA , which do not necessarily occur in all cases of PAC . Our findings demonstrate that PAC and large HFA events can be identified and subsequently linked to categorically distinct representations . It is not immediately clear how this relates to our finding that PAC predominantly occurs with modulating frequencies in the delta band , particularly around 1 Hz . It is possible that our findings reflect the activation of assemblies during ‘up’ states which show a similar frequency profile  or that the applied method of identifying peaks in the spectrum biased our findings to find PAC at lower frequencies . Similarly , our results showing PAC at a variety of phases and frequencies  , particularly near 32 Hz , might reflect a form of ‘nested coupling’  distinct from ‘broadband’ high gamma , which has been suggested to reflect population spiking  . Future research may clarify this issue by comparing single neuron activity and HFA modulation during different perceptual tasks and by investigating their relation to hierarchical cross-frequency coupling . To summarize , by identifying electrodes exhibiting both PAC and phase-coded neural representations for categories , our results employing direct brain recordings explicitly link phase-coupled neural activity to phase coding in humans . Patients viewed greyscale images taken from four different categories  and each category had four unique stimuli , resulting in a stimulus set of 16 unique images . To boost our electrode sampling , an additional 32 electrodes from an ipsilateral left lateral temporal grid were included from patient 5 based on the physicians' report , which indicated a left hippocampal focus and no evidence of neocortical lesion based on an magnetic resonance imaging  . Electrode locations were determined by post-implantation MRI such that electrodes were mapped by co-registering pre- and post-implantation MRIs , normalizing the pre-implantation MRI and applying the normalization matrix to the post-implantation MRI . We analyzed an average of 103 trials per category and subject and there were no differences in total number of trials analyzed across categories ( F  = 0 . In brief , the power and phase of the signal on each electrode was computed in the low frequency  and gamma  bands using Morlet wavelet convolution with 7 cycles . At each center HFA frequency , the time course of power values was z-scored and time periods exceeding the 95th percentile of these values were identified  . The time point of the largest power value within each window was identified and taken as the time-locking ‘HFA event’ for OTC analyses  . Two-second segments  of the raw signal were extracted around these timestamps and raw signal segments were summed at each time point across segments , resulting in the modulatory signal at each center HFA frequency . Surrogate modulatory signals  were constructed at each modulated frequency based on choosing an equal number of pseudo-HFA events at random timestamps and repeating the above procedure . PAC+ electrodes were identified as electrodes  with a modulation strength z-score >4 . We identified the peak HFA modulation frequency as the frequency with the largest z-score and extracted the modulatory signal  . Statistical testing was performed between the phases extracted during HFA windows for all pairs of conditions  . DSs were computed for each category as the total number of significant differences  between the phase distribution for one category and the remaining categories and thus ranged from 0  to 3  . Phase clustering scores were defined as the resultant vector length for each category's phase distribution . We used a pattern classification approach for comparison with our DS metric , classifying image category based on the phase at which HFA events occur . Phase values at Fmax were extracted at moments in time when HFA events occurred during image presentation and were used as input features for the classifier . Similar to previous approaches  , the sine and cosine of the phase values were used as input features for phase . Classifiers were run separately on each electrode and the classifier output was a prediction of the category label for each HFA event . Classification accuracy was defined as the average proportion of correctly classified HFA events across folds . Chance classification performance varies across electrodes because we classified the category label associated with each HFA event and the number of HFA events per category varied across electrodes . First , we randomized the category labels associated with HFA events and assessed classification accuracy . Second , we used random time points  as surrogate HFA events and assessed classification accuracy . "
"Invasion of erythrocytes is essential for parasite survival and this involves interplay of multiple protein–protein interactions . One of the most important interactions is binding of parasite invasion ligand families EBLs and PfRhs to host receptors on the surface of erythrocytes . PfRh5 is the only essential invasion ligand within the PfRh family and is an important vaccine candidate . PfRh5 binds the host receptor basigin . In this study , we have determined the crystal structure of PfRh5 using diffraction data to 2 . PfRh5 exhibits a novel fold , comprising nine mostly anti-parallel α-helices encasing an N-terminal β-hairpin , with the overall shape being an elliptical disk . This is the first three-dimensional structure determined for the PfRh family of proteins . The asexual blood cycle of this parasite begins with the invasion of human erythrocytes by the merozoite form of P . falciparum in a complex multistep process involving a cascade of protein–protein interactions between the parasite and host cell  . PfRh5 is a member of the PfRh family and binds specifically to the receptor basigin on the human erythrocyte surface  . This protein plays an essential role in merozoite invasion  and host tropism of P . Polymorphisms in PfRh5 can convert a non-virulent Plasmodium falciparum parasite into a virulent form upon infection of Aotus monkeys , supporting the view that this ligand is a determinant of virulence and host specificity  . PfRh5 has distinct characteristics suggesting that it plays a different role to other members of the family . In particular , PfRh5 is a much smaller protein  and lacks a transmembrane region . It forms a complex with the cysteine-rich protein PfRipr during merozoite invasion; the complex is peripherally associated with parasite membranes and is released at the apical end of the merozoite during invasion of the human erythrocyte  . Antibodies to PfRh5 can block merozoite invasion , suggesting that it is a potential vaccine candidate  . This is supported by clinical data showing that antibodies to PfRh5 are associated with protection against malaria , indicating that PfRh5 may be a component of acquired protective immunity  . To provide a molecular basis for understanding the function of PfRh5 , we have determined the crystal structure of PfRh5 using diffraction data to 2 . 18 Å resolution , the first three-dimensional structure in PfRh protein family . Although the recombinant protein was capable of binding red blood cells , it was unstable , with the N-terminal region proteolytically degraded to yield a 48-kDa fragment that had a higher erythrocyte binding affinity than that of the full-length protein  . We determined the N-terminal amino acid sequence by mass spectrometry and re-expressed this region in insect cells to produce a highly stable module of PfRh5 that we denote PfRh5-C  . PfRh5-C likely reflects the 45-kDa processed form present in P . Production of functional recombinant PfRh5 . Purified recombinant PfRh5 was analysed by SDS-PAGE analyses and by erythrocyte binding assays . Formation of the PfRh5–basigin complex was monitored by size-exclusion chromatography . The chromatographic profiles are shown for PfRh5  , basigin  , and the PfRh5-basigin complex  . The binding affinity of the recombinant PfRh5 to human basigin was measured by SPR on Biacore 3000 with the basigin coupled to a sensor chip . In vitro growth inhibition assays were performed to assess the abilities of the polyclonal antibodies to the recombinant PfRh5 in blocking P . falciparum parasite invasion into erythrocytes . Production of full-length PfRh5 . SDS-PAGE analyses of the FLAG-tagged recombinant full-length PfRh5 eluted from an anti-FLAG affinity column . Size-exclusion chromatography analyses of the anti-FLAG bead affinity purified PfRh5 . Red blood cell binding assay with PfRh5 purified by anti-FLAG bead affinity chromatography . PfRh5 and human basigin form a 1:1 complex . PfRh5-C and basigin were cross-linked with EDC in the presence of NHS . 005 To show that PfRh5-C is functional , we demonstrated that it could bind red blood cells and the receptor human basigin , which is also produced in insect cells  . PfRh5-C formed a stable complex with basigin as evidenced by size-exclusion chromatographic analysis . In these experiments , PfRh5-C was incubated with excess basigin and the stable PfRh5-basign complex eluted ahead of free PfRh5 and basigin  . The binding affinity of the PfRh5-C–basigin interaction was determined by surface plasmon resonance  to be KD = 43 . We note that while the PfRh5 sample used for the SPR measurement was prepared in monomeric form by gel-filtration chromatography , it is possible that a dynamic equilibrium with oligomeric forms within the sample has contributed to the higher affinity measurement . Antibodies to the recombinant PfRh5-C block growth of 3D7 and W2mef strains of P . Taken together , these data imply that PfRh5-C is functionally competent . PfRh5-C was crystallized and its structure determined through single-wavelength anomalous diffraction  phasing using iodine-derivatized crystals with subsequent refinement against native diffraction data to a resolution of 2 . The shape of PfRh5-C approximates an elliptical disk  , the core consisting of nine mostly anti-parallel α-helices that encase a small β-hairpin located near the N-terminus  . We denote these nine helices α1 , α2a , α2b , α3a , α3b , α4 , α5 , α6 , and α7 , where the numeric order indicates progression from N- to C-terminus along the polypeptide and the a and b suffixes indicate that α2a and α2b as well as helices α3a and α3b arise from breaks in the canonical  hydrogen bonding pattern of longer ‘parent helices’ α2 and α3 , respectively . The crystal structure of PfRh5 . Ribbon representation of the PfRh5 structure . Helices α4 , α5 , α6 , and α7 assemble as a triplet-helical coiled-coil domain running the length of the long axis of the molecule , helices α1 , α2a , and α3b assemble to form a short triplet-helical bundle and helices α2b and α3a assemble to form a short two-helix coiled coil . Ribbon representation of the PfRh5 structure viewed after a 180o rotation relative to that in  . Ribbon representation of the PfRh5 structure viewed from the side with the C-terminus on the left . Ribbon representation of the PfRh5 structure viewed after a 180o-rotation relative to that in  . The secondary structure of PfRh5 . Two free cysteine residues  within the crystal structure of PfRh5 . The side chain of Cys329 is completely buried inside the three-dimensional fold of PfRh5 and the side chain of Cys203 is only partly exposed , consistent with the fact that no intermolecular disulfide bond was observed for the native and recombinant PfRh5 . Superimposition of the PfRh5 structure with N-terminal coiled-coil domain of SipB . The PfRh5  coiled-coil helix bundle formed by helices α5 , α6 , and α7 has a very similar fold to the N-terminal coiled-coil domain of SipB  . A unique pocket on the surface of the PfRh5 molecule . Location of the pocket on the surface formed by the β-hairpin , the triple-helical bundle , and the triple-helical coiled coil . 011 Helices α4 , α5 , α6 , and α7 assemble as a triplet-helical coiled-coil domain running the length of the long axis of the molecule . On the opposite side to the α4/α5/α6/α7 coiled-coil domain , helices α1 , α2a , and α3b assemble to form a short three-helix bundle and helices α2b and α3a assemble to form a short two-helix coiled-coil domain , these domains being approximately half the length of the α4/α5/α6/α7 coiled-coil domain . The ‘absence’ of a third helix to the α2b/α3a coiled-coil is necessary to accommodate the small β-hairpin formed by residues 161–175 in the overall tertiary structure . Within each of the three-helical domains , the central pairwise interactions between the constituent helices are overwhelmingly hydrophobic in nature . In contrast , the interactions between the helical domains and the β-hairpin and between the α4/α5/α6/α7 coiled-coil domain and the α1/α2a/α3b bundle domain are of mixed hydrophilicity . The first disulphide bond is Cys345–Cys351 , located at one apex of the helical bundle . Cys345 lies at the C-terminal end of helix α3b and Cys351 at the N-terminal end of helix α4 . The second disulphide bond is Cys224–Cys317; Cys224 lies close to the N-terminus of helix α2b and Cys317 close to the C-terminus of helix α3a , that is , in proximity to ‘kink points’ of the parent helices α2 and α3 . A large loop  , located at the opposite apex of molecule to the Cys345–Cys351 disulphide bond , interconnects helices α2b and α3a  . Two free cysteine residues  occur within the structure; the side chain of the Cys329 residue is completely buried , whereas that of the Cys203 is only partly exposed  . A search using DALI  indicates that the PfRh5 fold is novel . The only element of PfRh5-C found to have a structural homologue within the Protein Data Bank  is the coiled-coil domain formed by helices α5 , α6 , and α7  : this element can be superimposed with a root mean square deviation of all backbone atoms of 3 . 4 Å on the N-terminal coiled-coil domain  of the SipB protein of the bacterial type III secretion system  of Salmonella enterica    . Analyses of molecular surface using DoGSiteScorer  detected a number of pockets of dimensions suitable for targeting with small molecules on the surface of the PfRh5 structure . These pockets arise from the relatively loose packing of the four constituent domains of the PfRh5 . If this pocket is in proximity to the basigin binding site , small molecules targeting it may have the potential to interfere the interaction between the two molecules , either through disrupting the relatively loose packing of the constituent domains of PfRh5 or through steric interference . Alternatively , as PfRh5 functions in complex with PfRipr and at least one further parasite protein  , if this pocket is involved in binding these partner/s , a small molecule targeting this pocket may likewise interfere with the complex formation and therefore ultimately with its function . To explore the structure–function relationship of PfRh5 , we examined the relevance of the disulphide bonds and cysteine residues for the function of PfRh5 by reducing and alkylating PfRh5-C followed by measuring the binding affinity of the modified protein to basigin using surface plasmon resonance  . The reduced and alkylated PfRh5-C has an affinity for basigin with KD = 127 nM . A threefold reduction in affinity as compared to untreated PfRh5-C  was consistent with the two disulphide-bonds being important for the stability of the overall fold of the protein rather than being directly involved in basigin binding . Binding of mutant PfRh5 to basigin . The binding affinity of the reduced and alkylated PfRh5 to basigin measured by SPR . The binding affinity of the PfRh5 mutant , in which the disordered loop has been deleted , to basigin measured by SPR . 012 We also investigated whether the disordered region of 35 amino acids   is involved in the binding of PfRh5 to human basigin . A mutant form of PfRh5-C lacking amino acids Asp261–Asn289  was produced in insect cells; its binding affinity for basigin was determined by SPR to be 25 . 9 nM  , that is , comparable to that of the non-mutated PfRh5 . falciparum merozoite into human erythrocytes involves several ligand–receptor interactions including the PfRh family of proteins , which are important in binding to and identifying the appropriate host cell for invasion  . Whilst PfRh5 is a member of the PfRh family , it appears to have distinct functions to other family members and it plays an essential role for invasion  . To provide a structural basis for understanding the function of this protein , we determined its three-dimensional structure , the first crystal structure in the PfRh protein family . PfRh5 exhibits a novel fold comprising three-helical domains surrounding a small β-hairpin . PfRh5 appears to function as a multi-protein complex . The PfRh5–PfRipr complex is essential for merozoite invasion as the genes encoding both proteins cannot be disrupted and antibodies to both inhibit this process  . The structural similarity of the larger PfRh5 coiled-coil domain with the N-terminal coiled-coil domain of SipB may potentially provide an indication of the function of the complex . SipB forms part of the Salmonella type III secretion system  that is responsible for transport of bacterial effector proteins across the host cell membrane . Currently , there is no direct evidence that the PfRh5–PfRipr complex is involved in transport of proteins or molecules across the erythrocyte membrane during invasion . falciparum does inject proteins , including members of the RON complex , into the erythrocyte during merozoite invasion and these proteins are required for formation of the tight junction that bring the parasite membrane and host membrane together in a tight interaction through binding of RON2 to apical membrane antigen-1   . By analogy to the bacterial type III secretion system , the PfRh5–PfRipr complex may play a role in transfer of components such as the RON complex to the host cell during merozoite invasion . In summary , this work has elucidated the structure of PfRh5 and may provide a model for the remainder of the PfRh family members . During the review process of this manuscript , a study was published reporting the structure of the Rh5–basigin complex  . In contrast , our work describes the structure of Rh5 not bound to the receptor basigin . A pocket identified on the surface of PfRh5 may provide an opportunity for development of a new anti-malaria drug . Structural similarity with SipB has provided the tantalizing possibility that PfRh5–PfRipr complex may play a similar role to the TTSS system of bacteria that secrete effector proteins into the host cell . A synthetic gene encoding Plasmodium falciparum  full-length mature PfRh5  , PfRh5-C  , or its mutant was inserted into insect/mammalian cell expression vector pgpHFT  using Kpn I and Xho I sites to produce pgpHFT-PfRh5 . The pgpHFT-PfRh5 was then co-transfected with FlashBAC  into Sf21 insect cells as per supplier's manual . After extensive washing , bound proteins were eluted from the column with the FLAG peptide at a concentration of 100 μg/ml , concentrated and further purified by size-exclusion chromatography with a Superdex 200 column  in 50 mM Tris , 100 mM NaCl , pH 8 . For crystallization of PfRh5 , the tandem 6xHis and FLAG tags were removed by digestion with a TEV protease and the pure protein was recovered by Ni-resin and/or size-exclusion chromatography purification . Human basigin isoform 2   was also expressed in insect cells and purified as described for PfRh5 . Model building and refinement then continued with PHENIX  , with automated building and morphing routines leading to a model comprising approximately 50% of the PfRh5 sequence . Rabbits were immunised three times with 200 μg PfRh5 in Freund's adjuvant . To prepare and analyse the PfRh5/basigin complex , two anti-flag affinity beads purified proteins were mixed , incubated at 4°C overnight and loaded to a Superdex 200 size-exclusion chromatography column in 50 mM Tris , 150 mM NaCl , pH 8 . The human basigin was immobilized onto a CM5 sensorchip using amine-coupling  chemistry . PfRh5 or its mutants  were injected at 20 µl/min into the sensorchip containing a channel immobilized with basigin . To an aliquot of 50 µl at 1 mg/ml PfRh5 was added DTT to a final concentration of 2 mM and incubated at room temperature for 2 hr . For cross-linking of PfRh5 to Basigin , to approximately 50 µg of purified PfRh5/Basigin complex in 25 mM MES , 150 mM NaCl , pH 7 . "
"Predator-prey interactions influence prey traits through both consumptive and non-consumptive effects , and variation in these traits can shape vector-borne disease dynamics . Meta-analysis methods were employed to generate predation effect sizes by different categories of predators and mosquito prey . This analysis showed that multiple families of aquatic predators are effective in consumptively reducing mosquito survival , and that the survival of Aedes , Anopheles , and Culex mosquitoes is negatively impacted by consumptive effects of predators . Mosquito larval size was found to play a more important role in explaining the heterogeneity of consumptive effects from predators than mosquito genus . Mosquito survival and body size were reduced by non-consumptive effects of predators , but development time was not significantly impacted . The results of this meta-analysis suggest that predators limit disease transmission by reducing both vector survival and vector size , and that associations between drought and human West Nile virus cases could be driven by the vector behavior of predator avoidance during oviposition . While it is well known that predation reduces vector populations through consumptive effects , non-consumptive effects of predators can also greatly impact prey demographics  . Consequently , there is motivation from a public health perspective to better understand the different drivers of variation in mosquito traits that can ultimately impact vector population growth and disease transmission . In this study , systematic review and meta-analysis methods are used to synthesize a clearer understanding of the consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators on mosquito traits , including survival , oviposition , development , and size . The consumptive effects of predators on mosquitoes have previously been harnessed for biocontrol purposes . The strength of the consumptive effects of these predators on mosquitoes can be influenced by multiple factors , including predator-prey size ratio and temperature . Predators can also have non-consumptive effects on prey  , and these effects are thought to be more pronounced in aquatic ecosystems than in terrestrial ecosystems  . Non-consumptive effects of predators are the result of the prey initiating anti-predator behavioral and/or physiological trait changes that can aid in predator avoidance  . In mosquitoes , exposure to predators is known to affect a variety of traits including behavior , size , development , and survival  . Experimental observations of predator effects on mosquito size and development are inconsistent and results sometimes vary by mosquito sex . For example , exposure to predation was found to increase the size of Culex pipiens mosquitoes  but decrease the size of Culiseta longiareolata  . In some cases , a shared evolutionary history between predator and prey organisms can strengthen the non-consumptive effects of predators on mosquitoes  . This investigation assesses the consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators on mosquito traits and describes how these effects could impact disease transmission . The roles of vector genus , predator family , mosquito larval instar  , and temperature are also examined as potential moderators of predator effects . Non-consumptive effects of predators are expected to cause a smaller reduction in mosquito survival than consumptive effects because , in practice , measures of consumptive effects always include both consumptive and non-consumptive effects . Based on previous findings , larger predators are more likely to consumptively reduce mosquito survival  . Certain non-consumptive effects of predation , particularly oviposition site selection and decreased vector size , are likely to play important roles in the dynamics of mosquito-borne disease . Mosquito vectors of the Anopheles and Aedes genera were specifically highlighted in our search terms because these genera contain the vector species that transmit malaria , yellow fever , and dengue – the three most deadly mosquito-borne diseases worldwide  . Data were extracted from studies that collected data on non-consumptive and/or consumptive effects of predators on mosquitoes . The control treatment was required to have all the same conditions as the predator treatment , such as prey density and type of water , without the predators . Studies were also excluded if oviposition by free-flying female mosquitoes could have interfered with observing the consumptive effects of predators on vector survival . Observations where insecticide was used were excluded because insecticides are known to interfere with consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators  . In addition , observations from experiments with mosquito prey of two or more species were excluded because it was not possible to account for effects from apparent competition or prey-switching . Observations of mosquito development time and body size in our database that were not sex-specific were excluded so that these vector traits could be analyzed while controlling for sex . For example , if a total of 20 mosquitoes from three different predator replicates survived to adulthood , the mean development time and size of those 20 individuals may have been reported . For consumptive observations where life stage-specific survival was reported after more than 10 days of predator exposure , only data on survival marked by adult emergence were included for analysis . Effects observed among immature vector stages after such a long period of predator exposure were not analyzed because they could have resulted from a combination of non-consumptive effects on development , and consumptive effects on survival . However , mosquitoes have been shown to lay eggs independent of mating  , and hatch rates of zero have previously been observed in rafts laid by Culex females that were held separately from males  . The final analysis dataset included seven subsets: consumptive effects on survival , non-consumptive effects on survival , oviposition , development  , and size  . The data included 187 observations from 34 studies of consumptive survival , 24 observations from seven studies of non-consumptive survival , 36 observations from 12 studies of oviposition , 14 observations from seven studies of female development , 14 observations from seven studies of male development , 27 observations from 10 studies of female size , and 18 observations from nine studies of male size  . Random effects model results showed that predators consumptively decreased mosquito survival with an effect size of –1 . In addition , predators non-consumptively reduced oviposition behavior with an effect size of –0 . 0001 , and mosquito body size was non-consumptively reduced by predators in both males and females; the female effect size was –0 . There was not a significant non-consumptive effect of predators on either male or female development time; the female effect size was –0 . The ‘trim and fill’ procedure identified missing studies in the non-consumptive survival subset and the female size subset , but the procedure did not identify any missing studies in either of the development time subsets . Three studies were estimated to be missing from the non-consumptive survival data , and accounting for imputed values from missing studies resulted in a shift in the predation effect size from –0 . Predator families that decreased mosquito survival included Cyprinidae: –3 . Vector genera that experienced significant decreases in survival due to consumptive effects of predators included Aedes: –1 . Among all 187 consumptive survival observations from 34 studies , the best model fit , according to AICc value , was achieved when an interaction between predator family and vector genus was included in the model  . However , among the 163 larval stage consumptive survival observations from 30 studies , adding an interactive term between larval instar  and predator family had a greater improvement on model fit than adding an interactive term between vector genus and predator family  . 3329 , but for Culex mosquitoes , oviposition was significantly decreased by predator presence: –1 . Several larger predators reduced mosquito survival , including freshwater fish  , salamander larvae  , dragonfly larvae  , and backswimmers   . In addition , more effect size heterogeneity in the consumptive survival data was explained by an interaction between predator family and larval instar than was explained by an interaction between predator family and vector genus  . This result suggests that the relative sizes of predator and prey groups could play a more important role in determining consumptive mosquito survival than variations in predator responses to different behaviors of prey genera , which are likely to be shaped by the degree of shared evolutionary history between trophic levels  . Larval instar is an indicator of mosquito size , and previous modeling work has provided evidence of prey size selection by predators to maximize energetic gain  . While smaller cyclopoid copepods are more effective against early instar mosquito larvae  , larger predators including tadpoles , giant water bugs , dragonfly larvae , fish , and backswimmers are more effective against late instar larvae  . Exposure to predation cues significantly lowered mosquito survival , and this non-consumptive effect has also been observed in dragonfly larvae prey  that were exposed to caged predators  . The reduction in mosquito survival from non-consumptive effects of predators was significantly smaller than the reduction that was observed from consumptive effects . This is partially due to the practical constraints of most experimental designs , which cause consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators on survival to be grouped together and reported as consumptive effects . The greater impact of combined consumptive and non-consumptive effects , in comparison to only non-consumptive effects , has previously been observed in pea aphids   . While predators did not significantly impact mosquito development time through non-consumptive effects in either sex , mosquito body size was decreased by the non-consumptive effects of predators in both sexes . These effects suggest that predation could non-consumptively reduce mosquito population growth . The smaller size of mosquitoes exposed to predators could also limit disease transmission . It is well-established that smaller mosquito body size is associated with shorter mosquito lifespan  . Therefore , non-consumptive effects of predators may limit the transmission of mosquito-borne diseases . Predator presence also non-consumptively reduced oviposition behavior in adult female mosquitoes . Meta-regression results showed that Culex females significantly avoid oviposition sites that contain predators or predator cues , but Aedes and Culiseta females do not avoid these sites , despite a slight non-significant trend toward predator avoidance in Culiseta  . Both Culex and Culiseta mosquitoes have an ‘all-or-none’ oviposition strategy  , in which they lay hundreds of rapidly hatching eggs in rafts on the water’s surface  . Such an oviposition strategy is conducive to evolving predator avoidance behaviors , and a previous meta-analysis showed significant predator avoidance in both Culex and Culiseta during oviposition  . Conversely , it is likely that an oviposition response to predation is not particularly advantageous for Aedes because the delayed hatching of their eggs  can prevent the level of predation risk at the time of oviposition from matching the level of predation risk present in the eventual larval environment  . Predator avoidance during oviposition has previously been found to increase the mosquito population size at equilibrium  . However , this study’s results and those of a previous meta-analysis  suggest that models of oviposition site selection , such as those using parameters from Notonectidae predators and Culiseta prey  , are not generalizable to Aedes vectors . Predator avoidance during oviposition by Culex mosquitoes  may be of particular importance to West Nile virus  disease dynamics . In addition , reductions in water volume can facilitate consumption of mosquito larvae by crane fly larvae  , whereas mosquito consumption by tipulids was not observed at a higher water level  . Laboratory and semi-field studies have shown that mosquitoes respond to a gradient of predator cues  . The frequency of larval anti-predator behavior is correlated with the concentration of predator cues  , and adult female mosquitoes prefer oviposition sites with lower predator densities  . Therefore , as predator cue levels increase due to drought , permanent aquatic habitats are likely to transition from suitable oviposition sites for one generation of female mosquitoes , to unsuitable oviposition sites for the next generation . pipiens to residential areas increases the risk of WNV spill-over to humans because these vectors are likely to have already blood-fed at least once  , suggesting that they have a higher risk of WNV infection , relative to non-gravid mosquitoes . pipiens females toward more residential areas , combined with potential limited WNV amplification from increased vertical transmission , suggests that the vector trait of predator avoidance during oviposition can serve as a plausible explanation for associations between drought and human WNV cases . Another theory for the association between drought and human WNV cases is based on the hypothesis that increased contact between mosquito vectors and passerine reservoir hosts occurs during drought conditions  . The proposed aggregation of bird and mosquito populations during drought was originally thought to occur in humid , densely vegetated hammocks – a type of habitat that is specific to southern Florida  , but WNV incidence is more consistently clustered in other regions of the US , particularly the Northern Great Plains  . Furthermore , as terrestrial foragers that can obtain hydration from their diet of insects , fruits , and other plant material  , passerine reservoir hosts of WNV are less likely to move in response to drought than the mosquito vectors of WNV , which have obligate aquatic life stages . While hatch-year birds are more vulnerable to mosquito biting , and thus contribute to the amplification of WNV  , it is illogical to expect an increased abundance of hatch-year birds during drought conditions . However , some have argued that in cases where drought decreases the abundance of juvenile birds , the ratio of mosquitoes to birds increases , and this could lead to higher WNV prevalence in the mosquito population  . Although the aquatic phase of the mosquito life cycle is often overlooked in mathematical models of mosquito-borne pathogen transmission  , vector survival at immature stages plays an important role in determining mosquito population abundance , which is an essential factor for predicting disease transmission  . The results of this study show that mosquito survival decreases among the Aedes , Anopheles , and Culex genera due to consumptive effects of predators  , and that there is also a reduction in mosquito survival due to non-consumptive effects . Other studies have demonstrated that aquatic predators dramatically impact mosquito survival and abundance . Conversely , the annual abundance of Culex and Anopheles mosquitoes was observed to increase 15-fold in semi-permanent wetlands in the year following a drought , likely because the drought eliminated aquatic predators from wetlands that dried completely , and mosquitoes were able to re-colonize newly formed aquatic habitats more quickly than their most effective predators  . While relationships between temperature and different vector traits , such as fecundity and lifespan , have been incorporated into models of temperature effects on mosquito population density  , models of predator effects on vector borne disease transmission have focused primarily on the impacts of predation on vector survival . The findings of this meta-analysis suggest that predators also decrease vector fecundity through non-consumptive effects on vector body size . In addition , the entomological inoculation rate  is likely to be reduced by effects of predators on mosquito fecundity and lifespan , as well as effects of predators on mosquito survival . The EIR has been defined as the product of three variables:  the number of mosquitoes per host ,  the daily rate of mosquito biting , and  the proportion of mosquitoes that are infectious  . Based on this study’s findings , predators are likely to decrease the number of mosquitoes per host by reducing mosquito survival through both consumptive and non-consumptive effects , and by reducing mosquito fecundity through non-consumptive effects on body size . In addition , predators are likely to decrease the proportion of mosquitoes that are infectious by shortening the vector lifespan through non-consumptive effects on body size . The relationship between mosquito body size and biting rate is unclear , with some studies showing higher biting rates among larger mosquitoes  , and others reporting higher biting rates among smaller mosquitoes  . The links between factors that influence the EIR and observed effects of predators on mosquito prey demonstrate the necessity of including both consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators in models of mosquito-borne disease . This meta-analysis on mosquito predation demonstrates that predators not only play an important role in directly reducing mosquito populations , but also have non-consumptive effects on surviving mosquitoes that may ultimately reduce further population growth and decrease disease transmission . While families of larger sized predators were effective in reducing mosquito survival , other factors , such as impacts on native species , as well as the economic cost of mass-rearing and field applications  , should be carefully considered before selecting a predator as a suitable biocontrol agent . Although exposure of mosquito larvae to predators is commonplace in outdoor field settings , it remains rare in most laboratory-based assessments of vector traits . It is important for disease modelers to recognize these impacts of predation on vector traits as they can reduce mosquito population growth and limit disease transmission due to shorter vector lifespans . This study provides general estimates of the effects of predators on selected mosquito traits for use in predictive disease models . Modeling efforts that aim to optimize the application of biocontrol predators should also consider incorporating predator effects on vector survival , fecundity , and lifespan . Therefore , future efforts to assess the impact of predators on mosquito-borne disease transmission should prioritize experimental studies in which infected mosquito larvae are observed throughout an initial period of aquatic exposure to predators , followed by a period of blood-feeding in the adult stage . Previous studies have supported the simultaneous application of cyclopoid copepod predators and Bti  , but additional analyses are needed on the use of Bti with other families of mosquito predators . The literature search conducted for this meta-analysis returned studies on water mite parasites  and nematode parasitoids  of mosquitoes , and ascogregarine parasites have previously been evaluated as biocontrol agents against Aedes mosquitoes  . Three studies in the 60-study database included experiments where two mosquito prey species were made available to the predator species  . In these cases , the effect size measurement for each mosquito species could be influenced by interspecific competition , or a preference of the predator species for a certain prey species . In addition , this meta-analysis investigated consumptive and non-consumptive effects of predators separately . "
"We hypothesized that host proteostasis mechanisms may be significant determinants of the fitness of viral protein variants , serving as a critical force shaping viral evolution . Here , we test that hypothesis by propagating influenza in host cells displaying chemically-controlled , divergent proteostasis environments . We find that both the nature of selection on the influenza genome and the accessibility of specific mutational trajectories are significantly impacted by host proteostasis . These findings provide new insights into features of host–pathogen interactions that shape viral evolution , and into the potential design of host proteostasis-targeted antiviral therapeutics that are refractory to resistance . In cells , protein folding challenges are addressed by proteostasis networks composed of chaperones and quality control factors that work in concert to shepherd nascent proteins to folded , functional conformations  . Important work focused primarily on the Hsp90 chaperone has suggested a critical role for chaperones in modulating the evolution of their endogenous clients ,  in part by buffering deleterious effects of non-synonymous mutations . The consequences of Hsp90 activity for protein evolution may be due to Hsp90 directly engaging an evolving client protein  . Alternatively , the effects of Hsp90 may be secondary , mediated indirectly by Hsp90 influencing the folding of other endogenous clients that themselves engage relevant evolving proteins . For instance , Hsp90-dependent azole resistance in Candida albicans is mediated by secondary effects of Hsp90 on calcineurin , an Hsp90 client that regulates responses to environmental stimuli  . Efforts to look beyond Hsp90 to understand how other components of the metazoan proteostasis machinery modulate evolution  have been slowed by the paucity of chemical biology tools to perturb the activities of these systems . However , Tawfik and coworkers have shown that the GroEL/ES chaperonin system can govern the fitness of certain client protein variants in bacteria  , and computational modeling suggests that other chaperones may also have roles in evolution  . Chaperones and other proteostasis mechanisms are theoretically well-positioned to address the biophysical challenges created by high mutation rates in viruses . Instead , viral proteins engage host chaperones ,  and host chaperone inhibitors have been shown to limit the viability of certain RNA viruses  . In summary , it is clear that:  high genetic variability is essential to support RNA virus adaptability;  missense mutations important for viral adaptation are often biophysically deleterious , constraining the accessible mutational landscape; and  many viruses engage host chaperones to fold their proteins . An important but still untested hypothesis is that host proteostasis modulates RNA virus evolutionary trajectories . Experimentally testing this hypothesis requires methods to regulate the host cell’s proteostasis network without significantly perturbing cell health or the ability of an RNA virus to propagate . Here , we achieve this goal in the context of long-term influenza propagation by using small molecules to either modulate the heat shock response in a stress-independent manner  or to inhibit Hsp90 at sub-lethal concentrations  . We find that the resulting perturbations to host proteostasis mechanisms significantly impact both the extent and the nature of selection pressure on the influenza genome . We conclude that host proteostasis is a critical , under-appreciated player in influenza evolution , with significant implications for our ability to predict and prevent the evolution of influenza and other RNA viral pathogens . Thus , one biologically relevant strategy to create an altered proteostasis environment is to induce such responses . We focused on the heat shock response ,  because numerous influenza proteins must fold and/or function in the cytosol and nucleus  . Typical methods to induce heat shock factor 1  , the master regulator of the heat shock response and thus of cytosolic and nuclear chaperone and quality control protein levels , involve treatment with toxins or acute heat stress . These methods are not useful for our studies because they engender massive protein misfolding stress in host cells that rapidly become apoptotic , preventing influenza propagation . In these cells , termed MDCKHSF1 cells , we can dosably induce cHSF1 transcriptional activity by TMP treatment in a stress-independent manner within the biologically relevant regime  , avoiding cytotoxicity that would be induced by stressors or cHSF1 overexpression and yet still providing robust access to cells expressing enhanced levels of HSF1 targets  . To control for any possible unintended consequences of TMP treatment or expression of a DHFR-fusion protein in our evolution experiments , we also created a control MDCK cell line expressing DHFR . This MDCKYFP cell line does not display TMP-dependent upregulation of HSF1-dependent chaperones , indicating that TMP induces HSF1 activity in our MDCKHSF1 cells specifically by stabilizing DHFR . Here , we employed the Hsp90 inhibitor STA-9090 , a small molecule capable of targeting multiple Hsp90 isoforms  . Notably , Hsp90 inhibition using high concentrations of STA-9090 can cause an undesirable compensatory heat shock response  , resulting in activation of HSF1 and upregulation of Hsp70 , Hsp40 , and other HSF1 targets . We selected the concentration used via a functional assay for all experiments , examining Hsp70 protein levels by immunoblotting to ensure the absence of any heat shock response signature  . To confirm that we are still engaging Hsp90 at the low STA-9090 concentration used in our serial passaging experiments , we performed a cellular thermal shift assay  and observed a small but highly reproducible increase in Hsp90 thermal stability upon STA-9090 treatment  . Because Hsp90 inhibition can be employed in our MDCKHSF1 cell line , these methods access three distinctive host proteostasis environments in a single cell line dependent only on small molecule treatment . Importantly , monitoring chaperone levels in the context of influenza A/Wuhan/1995  infection shows that , under our infection conditions , influenza itself neither induces heat shock protein transcripts nor interferes with our method to activate HSF1 . Thus , we have full user control of the host proteostasis environment during a progressing infection  . To further characterize these perturbed host environments , we performed RNA-Seq for each treatment in the MDCKHSF1 and MDCKYFP cell lines . A heat map for these 118 genes highlights that two distinctive cellular environments are indeed created by HSF1 activation and Hsp90 inhibition in MDCKHSF1 cells  . Moreover , only two transcripts meet these cutoffs upon TMP treatment in MDCKYFP cells , confirming that the remodeled proteostasis environment upon TMP treatment of MDCKHSF1 cells is specifically due to HSF1 activation . The volcano plots in Figure 2B show the distribution of differentially expressed genes for HSF1 activation and Hsp90 inhibition in MDCKHSF1 cells , relative to the basal environment , with selected transcripts labeled  . As expected , stress-independent HSF1 activation upregulates numerous classic heat shock response genes  , including HSP70 , BAG3 , HSP90AA1 , DNAJB1 , and FKBP4  . This remodeling of the cellular proteostasis network is limited to nuclear and cytosolic proteostasis mechanisms , as ER proteostasis network components are not induced by TMP treatment of the MDCKHSF1 cells  . Moreover , transcript-level proteostasis network remodeling is not observed upon STA-9090 treatment , with the exception of a 2 . We observe modest upregulation of several transcripts involved in transcription factor regulation and DNA damage upon HSF1 activation , such as CAMK1 , RELB , and PARP3 , consistent with the intimate role of HSF1 in cytoprotection  . STA-9090 slightly upregulates several interferon response-related transcripts , including OAS2 and MX2  , a phenomenon that has been previously reported upon treatment with other Hsp90 inhibitors  . In summary , our RNA-Seq data are fully consistent with the chemically-controlled creation of three unique host cell proteostasis environments in MDCKHSF1 cells . We next serially passaged influenza A/Wuhan/1995 in our three distinctive , small molecule-controlled host environments to test the hypothesis that host proteostasis impacts influenza evolution . Prior to each infection , we split a population of MDCKHSF1 cells and treated with TMP to activate HSF1 , STA-9090 to inhibit Hsp90 , or vehicle  . 04 infectious virions/cell , to minimize non-viable variants hitchhiking with functional variants owing to co-infection of a single cell  . We performed 23 serial passages in biological triplicate in each proteostasis environment . We also performed identical passaging experiments ± TMP in our MDCKYFP cells to control for any possible off-target effects of TMP treatment or expression of a DHFR-fusion protein in our evolution experiments  . Importantly , infectious titering at intermittent passages confirmed that the MOI did not vary systematically between the three distinctive proteostasis environments  . Thus , differences observed in evolutionary trajectories cannot be attributed to either systematically altered rates of viral growth in the three different host proteostasis environments studied here or to gross differences in cell health . Next , we sought to evaluate whether our serial passaging strategy provides a valid platform for modeling influenza evolution . In the absence of a strong exogenous selection pressure , such as an antiviral drug or antibody , we would predict that the influenza genome experiences purifying selection , meaning that most amino acid substitutions result in reduced fitness relative to the wild-type consensus sequence . We assessed the extent of purifying selection by determining the ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous substitutions at each passage , normalized to the ratio of non-synonymous sites to synonymous sites in the influenza genome  , defined as Dn/Ds . As expected , non-synonymous mutations are selected against in all folding environments , as indicated by a Dn/Ds < 1 throughout our serial passaging   . To comparatively evaluate the selection pressure placed on influenza by our three distinctive host proteostasis environments , we constructed variant frequency distributions  for each viral population  . In the SFS  , we separate mutations present above our sequencing error threshold  in a given viral population into either non-synonymous or synonymous groups . As expected , the resulting SFS for non-synonymous mutations  show that early passages consist entirely of low frequency variants . As the passaging experiment progresses , the high mutation rate of influenza maintains a substantial population of low frequency variants . However , the proportion of low frequency variants in the viral population decreases as selected mutations increase in frequency and become fixed . The time resolution afforded by our serial passaging and sequencing strategy provides the opportunity to assess the strength of selection pressure on the influenza genome . Non-synonymous mutations fix latest in the Hsp90-inhibited environment and earliest in the HSF1-activated environment  . For instance , in the Hsp90-inhibited environment , no mutations have exceeded 60% frequency by passage 9 or 80% frequency by passage 11 . In contrast , in the HSF1-activated environment , mutations exceed 80% frequency as early as passage 9 and become fixed  by passage 11 . The basal environment lies between these two extremes , with mutations exceeding only 70% frequency by passage 9 and with no mutations yet being fixed at passage 11 . As mutations in each environment increase in frequency , all the distributions achieve similar U-shaped , bimodal distributions by passage 23 . For the basal and HSF1-activated environments , the distributions become U-shaped by passage 11 , whereas for the Hsp90-inhibited environment , this distribution emerges only after passage 19 . Indeed , by passage 11 , the first passage at which we observe fixed mutations in any environment , the shape of the non-synonymous SFS for influenza evolved in the Hsp90-inhibited environment is significantly different from that of influenza evolved in the basal and HSF1-activated environments  . This reduced rate of adaptation in Hsp90-inhibited versus basal and HSF1-activated environments is also evident from plotting individual mutation trajectories  , revealing specific mutations that increase in frequency more gradually when Hsp90 is inhibited . As an internal control , we also examined the SFS and mutation trajectories for synonymous variants  . We find that synonymous mutations for each environment have similar SFS within each passage , and that the Mann-Whitney test cannot distinguish between the synonymous SFS in different proteostasis environments at any stage of the serial passaging experiment  . Moreover , unlike non-synonymous mutations  , specific synonymous mutations do not fix reproducibly in one particular environment  . This observation is consistent with our expectation that , although the influenza genome does undergo selection at the RNA level  , the host proteostasis-based perturbations of HSF1 activation and Hsp90 inhibition should primarily affect influenza evolution by modulating protein-level folding/function . The similar SFS for synonymous mutations also confirm that differences between folding environments for non-synonymous mutations cannot be attributed to altered viral growth rates . Taken together , these observations draw an intriguing picture of the impact of host proteostasis on viral evolution . On the other hand , the rate of adaptation by accumulation of advantageous mutations is significantly reduced in the Hsp90-inhibited environment , as compared to the basal and HSF1-activated environments . This signature of altered selection pressure in distinctive host proteostasis environments highlights the importance of this under-appreciated factor impacting viral evolution . The data in Figure 4 show that the host proteostasis environment is a determinant of the nature of selection pressure placed on the influenza genome . Next , we examined how the mutational landscapes of individual influenza proteins are influenced by these same environments . We anticipated perturbations of HSF1- and Hsp90-mediated proteostasis mechanisms might affect the mutational landscape of polymerase subunits , as their interactions with cytosolic chaperones are well-established  . We aligned all non-synonymous variants present in passage 23 to the secondary structure , the amino acid relative surface accessibility , and the amino acid conservation score  . Using this analysis , we identified regions of PA and PB1  with a high density of non-synonymous , but not synonymous , mutations with frequencies above our sequencing error threshold  . Most mutational hotspots appear in all host environments , indicating sites under strong positive selection in this experimental setting and/or suggesting inherent mutational tolerance of those protein regions that is independent of host proteostasis . For example , in polymerase PA , residues 590–640 comprise a mutational hotspot present in every host environment  . In contrast , certain other mutational hotspots are specific to or absent from one or more host proteostasis environments . For example , we observe eight mutations in the N-terminal 100 residues of PB1 in the HSF1-activated environment , two mutations in the baseline environment , and only one mutation in the Hsp90-inhibited environment  . Our observation that amino acid substitutions in PA at the interface are tolerated in all host environments while substitutions in PB1 at the interface are tolerated only when HSF1 is activated  prompted us to further investigate the consequences of these amino acid substitutions . We observed that the PA variants , which occur in both the HSF1-activated and Hsp90-inhibited environments , have slightly less favorable binding energy with wild-type PB1N  . The PB1 variants , which occur exclusively in the HSF1-activated environment , are also destabilizing , with the K11E substitution very strongly destabilizing the complex  . These data suggest that , whereas our perturbations of host proteostasis may be necessary to accommodate strongly destabilizing mutations in PB1 , they may not be important for moderately destabilizing variants in PA . However , the mutation frequencies are not strongly correlated in our data and likely occur in distinctive influenza genomes . Cumulatively , these observations indicate that host proteostasis impacts the fitness of destabilizing amino acid substitutions in influenza proteins in a protein-specific manner . Next , we analyzed the mutational trajectories of variants present at high frequency in our founder virus to identify those with significantly altered fitness between proteostasis environments . Such variants had the opportunity to be selected for or against in all environments and thus are less subject to the stochasticity inherent in a serial passaging-based evolution experiment . As we would expect , some non-synonymous variants  follow similar trajectories regardless of host proteostasis  . Much more interesting are the HA and PA variants that exhibit divergent trajectories upon serial passaging in distinct folding environments  . Notably , we do not observe any synonymous variants with consistently divergent trajectories between environments  indicating that the divergent PA and HA trajectories are in fact due to selection at the protein level . In HA , three variants  present at 20% frequency in our founder virus become fixed by passage 19 in all replicates of the HSF1-activated and basal environments , but in only one replicate of the Hsp90-inhibited environment  . Moreover , these variants completely fall out of two replicates of the Hsp90-inhibited environment by passage 9 . These mutations may increase the affinity of HA for MDCK sialic acid receptors , but may be less fit when Hsp90 is inhibited . HA folding occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum , which contains an Hsp90 isoform  that is also inhibited by STA-9090  . In the absence of active Grp94 , these HA variants may have compromised folding and/or intracellular trafficking , resulting in diminished fitness relative to wild-type HA regardless of any functional advantage they may confer in other host proteostasis environments . In PA , we observed that the H452Q variant is present at 20% frequency in the founder virus and becomes fixed in two replicates of the Hsp90-inhibited environment  . This variant does not become fixed in the basal environment , and is selected against in the HSF1-activated environment . To unequivocally determine the fitness of the H452Q variant relative to wild-type PA in HSF1-activated and Hsp90-inhibited host cells , we performed reverse genetics to enable head-to-head competition of the variants , thereby quantitatively establishing their relative fitness in our three distinct host proteostasis environments . We prepared wild-type and H452Q PA-containing influenza populations that were otherwise genetically identical . Next , we co-infected host cells displaying HSF1-activated , basal , or Hsp90-inhibited folding environments with equivalent amounts of each virus at low MOI and sequenced the resulting populations after the competition to quantify variant fitness relative to wild-type . We found that Hsp90 inhibition does indeed significantly enhance the fitness of the H452Q variant relative to wild-type PA , while HSF1 activation significantly reduces it  . One likely possibility is that Hsp90 delays subunit assembly or directs destabilized PA variants to degradation , as H452Q has a predicted ΔΔG of +1 . In either scenario , this observation that the fitness of an otherwise deleterious amino acid substitution in a non-autonomous Hsp90 client can be enhanced by chaperone inhibition but reduced by HSF1 activation is provocative . Here , we not only define a new role for host proteostasis in influenza evolution , but we also show that two unique proteostasis perturbations , HSF1 activation and Hsp90 inhibition , have distinctive consequences for client protein evolution . At the whole genome-level , our data indicate that non-synonymous mutations are fixed more slowly when Hsp90 is inhibited and more quickly when HSF1 is activated . Moreover , the overall shape of the Hsp90-inhibited passage 11 SFS is significantly different from that observed in the other two environments . In the case of buffering , the rate of fixation of advantageous variants  would be decreased if the effects of mildly deleterious variants linked with the driver  are rendered more damaging by Hsp90 inhibition  . In the case of potentiation , Hsp90 activity could necessitate emergence of the observed high frequency variants . Alternatively , Hsp90 activity may reduce weakly deleterious effects of driver mutations on their carrier proteins  , thereby increasing the selective advantage provided by the drivers . Though we cannot yet fully resolve which of these factors , or combinations thereof , are at play here , overall , we observe that host proteostasis indeed modulates the pace of influenza evolution . At the level of individual genes , we find that mutational tolerance at the interface of the PA:PB1 influenza polymerase complex , a region essential for polymerase assembly and activity , is impacted by host proteostasis . Interestingly , moderately destabilizing variants in PA are tolerated in all three host proteostasis environments studied . These PB1 variants strongly destabilize the PB1:PA complex and thus may be accessible only in host cells with high chaperone levels . These observations indicate that the evolution of the influenza polymerase complex may be modulated by host proteostasis in significant ways . At the level of individual mutations , our data demonstrate that host proteostasis impacts the fitness of specific mutations in at least two viral proteins . For example , the apparently destabilizing H452Q PA variant is significantly more fit when Hsp90 is inhibited , but significantly less fit when HSF1 is activated . These results highlight that the impact of proteostasis perturbation on evolution is currently difficult to predict a priori and demands further study , as one might by default assume that chaperone inhibition would enhance the fitness costs of such a mutation . We also identified variants in HA that behave in the opposite manner , displaying apparently enhanced fitness when HSF1 is activated . These divergent effects of host proteostasis on the fitness of individual variants illustrate the complexity of the interactions between viral proteins and host proteostasis mechanisms . Thus , we observe that host proteostasis modulates the nature of selection on the influenza genome , the mutational tolerance of specific influenza proteins , and the trajectories of particular variants . These results are especially compelling because consequences of altered host proteostasis for influenza evolution are emerging in the course of a relatively short-timescale evolution experiment , and without exerting additional selection pressure such as treatment with antiviral drugs . As in previous studies on the role of Hsp90 in the evolution of their endogenous protein clients , our observations may derive from direct interactions between host proteostasis components and influenza proteins , or from indirect consequences of perturbing proteostasis . Regardless of its precise origin , this role for host proteostasis in modulating both the pace and the directionality of influenza evolution is provocative . How do host proteostasis mechanisms beyond the heat shock response modulate influenza evolution , and what specific chaperones beyond Hsp90 are involved ? Are these effects direct consequences of host chaperones engaging influenza clients ? How does host proteostasis impact the evolution of rapidly evolving viruses beyond just influenza ? Defining the molecular details of this interplay between host proteostasis and viral evolution will be essential to fully elucidate the factors potentiating and constraining viral evolution . Rabbit polyclonal anti-HSP70/72 and rabbit polyclonal anti-Hsp40 antibodies were obtained from Enzo Life Sciences  . Hsp70 , Hsp40 , Hsp90 , and actin protein levels were determined using the antibodies described above . To monitor chaperone levels during influenza infection , MDCKHSF1 cells were infected with influenza A/Wuhan/1995 at an MOI of 1 for 8 hr to properly mimic the actual environment of a cell infected with a single influenza virion as in our serial passaging experiment . The reverse transcription reaction was diluted to 80 μL with water , and 2 μL of each sample was used for qPCR with 2 × Sybr Green  and primers for canis RPLP2  , Hsp70 , Hsp40 , Hsp90 , and influenza Matrix  . For qPCR of influenza-infected cells , a standard curve was prepared with a pDZ plasmid backbone containing the Influenza PR8 M segment to determine influenza Matrix copy number , which was used as a positive control for productive infection . For the MDCKHSF1 cell line characterization  , MDCKHSF1 cells were seeded at 100 , 000 cells/well in a 12-well plate and treated with 0 . Cells were pre-treated with TMP or DMSO for 24 hr or with STA-9090 for 90 min prior to influenza infection to establish altered proteostasis environments . Wells displaying agglutination were marked influenza-positive , and the titer was determined based on the lowest dilution that was still influenza-positive . Influenza was serially passaged in both the MDCKHSF1 and MDCKYFP cell lines in biological triplicate for each treatment condition  for 23 passages . The H452Q PA variant was introduced by site directed mutagenesis on a wild-type PA pHW2000 reverse genetics plasmid for the influenza A/Wuhan/1995 H3N2 strain   . RNA was extracted from 140 μL influenza supernatant from passages P0 , P2 , P9 , P11 , P19 and P23 using the Qiagen RNA Mini Kit and eluted in 40 μL molecular biology grade H2O . 5 μL template RNA using universal influenza primers as previously described ,  except that the small segments were amplified separately from the polymerase segments and pooled following PCR . RNA from the reverse genetics competition experiments was sequenced using the same protocol , except primers that specifically amplified ~900 bp of the PA gene spanning the mutation site were used for PCR  . Sequencing reads were aligned against the influenza A/Wuhan/1995 complete CDS sequence , or the influenza A/Wuhan/1995 PA sequence  , using bwa mem 0 . This frequency threshold is the lowest mutation frequency at which a mutation can be reliably detected in a sample that is sequenced in technical duplicate , for our specific sequencing method and instrument . Site frequency spectra were generated by binning all mutations meeting our coverage  and frequency  thresholds into 10% frequency bins and averaging the portion of mutations within a given frequency bin across biological triplicates . Alignment analyses were performed by aligning mutations meeting our coverage and frequency thresholds to the corresponding secondary structure and relative surface accessibility using DSSP ,  as well as to the site entropy , which was computed using all full-length protein sequences from the Influenza Virus Resource for all Influenza A PA and PB1 sequences except bat influenza sequences  . The ratio of mutant to wild-type PA was calculated for each replicate of each proteostasis environment; the resulting ratio was normalized to the average ratio of mutant to wild-type PA in the basal proteostasis environment . This test was performed on the passage 11 site frequency spectra because this is the first passage at which we observe fixed mutations in any environment . A one-tailed test was used as we expect mutation frequency spectra to shift in a one-directional manner as mutations become fixed and the distribution becomes U-shaped . Hsp90-inhibited  non-synonymous ) , 661 ( HSF1  vs . Hsp90-inhibited  non-synonymous ) , 776 ( basal  vs . Hsp90-inhibited  synonymous ) , 2819 ( HSF1  vs . "
"Impairment of peripheral nerve function is frequent in neurometabolic diseases , but mechanistically not well understood . Here , we report a novel disease mechanism and the finding that glial lipid metabolism is critical for axon function , independent of myelin itself . Surprisingly , nerves of Schwann cell-specific Pex5 mutant mice were unaltered regarding axon numbers , axonal calibers , and myelin sheath thickness by electron microscopy . In search for a molecular mechanism , we revealed enhanced abundance and internodal expression of axonal membrane proteins normally restricted to juxtaparanodal lipid-rafts . Gangliosides were altered and enriched within an expanded lysosomal compartment of paranodal loops . Thus , peroxisomal dysfunction causes secondary failure of local lysosomes , thereby impairing the turnover of gangliosides in myelin . This reveals a new aspect of axon-glia interactions , with Schwann cell lipid metabolism regulating the anchorage of juxtaparanodal Kv1-channels . Schwann cells , the myelinating cells of the peripheral nervous system  , contain peroxisomes in distant cytoplasmic compartments , including myelin channels and cytosolic loop regions close to nodes of Ranvier  . Peroxisomes degrade fatty acids derived from myelin lipids and generate precursors of myelin plasmalogens  . Lysosomal compartments are also present in these nodal regions  , and growing evidence from in vitro studies suggests interactions between both types of organelles  . Peroxisomal dysfunction is caused by mutations of genes encoding peroxisomal proteins or peroxisomal biogenesis factors  . This peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette  transporter mediates the import of very long-chain fatty acids  into the organelle . In consequence , ABCD1-deficient peroxisomes are not capable of importing and degrading VLCFA that are specific substrates of peroxisomal β-oxidation  . A more severe impairment of peroxisomes is caused by lack of the Hsd17b4 gene  that encodes a central enzyme of peroxisomal β-oxidation . In MFP2-deficient cells , the β-oxidation of virtually all peroxisome-specific substrates , including VLCFA , is inhibited  . This cycling receptor recognizes proteins with a peroxisomal targeting sequence type 1  and is involved in their transfer into peroxisomes . PEX5-dependent protein import applies to the majority of peroxisomal enzymes . Thus , PEX5-deletion disrupts peroxisomal function substantially  . Schwann cell lipid metabolism is rate-limiting for myelination and is important for maintenance of axonal integrity  , which requires in addition to membrane wrapping the assembly of nodal , paranodal , and juxtaparanodal membrane proteins  . The juxtaparanodal domain of myelinated axons harbors voltage-gated shaker-type potassium channels , Kv1 . 1  and Kv1 . Associated with connexin-29 hemichannels  , their clustering and anchoring at juxtaparanodes requires the neuronal membrane proteins CASPR2 and TAG-1 , the latter expressed by glia and neurons  . Kv1 channels have been proposed to play a role in regulating fiber excitability  , but the exact in vivo function of these fast-opening/slowly inactivating channels remains unknown  . Cnp-Cre::Pex5flox/flox mice , termed cKO or 'mutants' in the following , lack peroxisomal protein import in Schwann cells  . Upon closer inspection , we determined about 50% genomic recombination , corresponding to the fraction of Schwann cell  nuclei in sciatic nerves  . Teased fiber preparations , stained for PMP70 , revealed peroxisomes as puncta . In mutant nerves , these were import-deficient 'ghosts' , as evidenced by cytoplasmic catalase , normally a luminal peroxisomal marker  . Schwann cell-specific PEX5-deficiency causes peroxisome dysfunction and peripheral neuropathy in the absence of axonal loss or dysmyelination . Scheme of normal  and impaired  PEX5-dependent peroxisomal protein import . PTS1 , peroxisomal targeting signal type 1; PEX5 , peroxisomal biogenesis factor peroxin 5 . Catalase  is present in peroxisomes  of controls , but is localized in the cytoplasm of mutant fibers . PMP70 , peroxisomal membrane protein 70; DAPI-stained SC nuclei are depicted in blue; Scale bar , 10 µm . Lipid mass spectrometry of nerve lysates from controls and mutants aged 9 months indicates peroxisomal dysfunction . Peroxisomal products  and its corresponding plasmalogens  are reduced . Specific substrates of peroxisomal β-oxidation , VLCFA , are accumulated in mutant nerves . Functional impairment of mutant compared to control sciatic nerves is assessed by electrophysiology at the age of 2 months  . To evoke significant responses of all measured nerves , larger stimulus intensity is required for mutant  as compared to control  nerves . Peak amplitudes plotted against increasing stimulus intensity indicates earlier response saturation of mutant nerves . CAP , compound action potentials; au , arbitrary units; NCV , nerve conduction velocities  . g-ratio analysis by electron microscopy of sciatic nerves as measure of myelin thickness  . Axonal analysis by methylene blue-stained semithin cross-sections of sciatic nerves of control and mutant mice at the age of 2 months  . Immunostained teased sciatic nerve fibers of mutants and controls at 2 and 9 months show normal paranodal localization of CASPR  and anchoring protein neurofascin  . Intact transverse bands  at paranodal loops  between axon  and myelin  by electron microscopy in a 9-month mutant nerve , even when PNLs harbor enlarged vesicles  . Mutant nerves display normal adherens junctions  between loops  . Scale bars , 500 nm; scale bars in insets , 250 nm . Successful PEX5 ablation causes peroxisomal dysfunction . PCR on genomic tail DNA using primers specifically generating a 300 bp amplicon after Cre-mediated excision of Pex5-floxed exons 11–14 . qRT-PCR reveals a 50%  reduction of Pex5 mRNA level in mutant nerves  . Quantitative mass spectrometry of sciatic nerve lysates . Plasmalogens were abundant in a control nerve  . The same plasmalogens were hardly detectable in a mutant nerve lysate  . Analysis of VLCFA by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry in control and mutant mice . Electrophysiology of mouse sciatic nerves . Pex5 mutant nerves display smaller and delayed responses when elicited at stimulus intensities of 0 . In vivo electrophysiology of controls and PEX5 cKO shows a greater decline of the compound muscle action potential  amplitudes measured at more proximal versus distal stimulation indicating conduction blocks . Myelin analysis of mouse sciatic nerves . Chromogenic immune-staining for myelin protein zero  on paraffin-embedded sciatic nerve sections at 2 months . Abundance of major PNS myelin proteins P0 and PMP22 , as well as fatty-acid-binding protein P2 , and DM20 were not significantly altered by quantification of Western blot analysis of sciatic nerve lysates obtained at the age of 2 months  . Only the covalently lipid-binding protein PLP showed significant reduction in mutant as compared to control nerves . Electron micrographs of sciatic nerve cross-section showing myelin sheaths of animals aged 2 months . Internodal lengths measured using teased fibers of 2-month-old PEX5 mutant and control animals . Chromogenic immune-staining for APP on longitudinal paraffin-embedded sciatic nerve sections . Young Pex5 mutant nerves lack signs of inflammation . Chromogenic immunostaining for MAC-3  and CD3  on longitudinal paraffin-embedded sciatic nerve sections of mice aged 2 and 9 months . Mast cells  visualized and quantified using entire semithin  methylene-blue-stained cross-sections of mouse sciatic nerves at 2 months of age  . 007 Peroxisomal dysfunction in myelinating SC was confirmed by lipid mass spectrometry  , showing reduced plasmalogens  and its precursor alkylated phosphatidyl-ethanolamines  . Also VLCFA were increased , indicating the accumulation of peroxisomal β-oxidation substrates  . We determined nerve conduction velocity  by electrophysiology of isolated sciatic nerves  at the age of 2 months  . For all stimulus intensities tested , responses of mutant nerves were different from controls  . Compound action potentials  and NCV were diminished in mutants  compared to controls  . Also , in vivo recordings revealed significantly reduced compound muscle action potentials  in mutant mice  . We suspected that reduced nerve conduction would be explained by demyelination . Surprisingly , by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis structural myelin proteins , including PMP22 , MPZ/P0 , and P2 , were not significantly altered  . Only PLP , a minor PNS myelin protein , showed significant reduction . Also by electron microscopy  , myelin thickness , periodicity , and compaction were indistinguishable  . Next , we determined internodal length in teased fiber preparations , which was shorter in mutant  than in control fibers  , but unlikely sufficiently reduced to cause a slower conduction by itself  . Importantly , while the reduced CAP suggested significant axon loss at 2 months , the morphometric analysis of entire nerve cross-sections revealed normal axonal numbers and calibers  . Thus , reduced CAPs were most likely caused by functional conduction blocks rather than physical axon loss . Signs of axonal transport defects  were not observed  , and also , indirect signs of neurodegeneration  were not significantly enhanced in nerves at 2 months  . Yet , both neurofascin-155  and axonal CASPR , that is adhesion proteins that mediate axo-glial contacts  , were normally localized  . By EM , we never found the detachment of paranodal loops  , even where abnormally enlarged by accumulated vesicles  . Next , we examined the distribution of ion channels  in sciatic nerve teased fibers from 2- and 9-month-old mutants and controls . 6 and Kv7 . 2 , as well as their anchoring proteins , were normally flanked by CASPR-positive paranodes  . Surprisingly , the juxtaparanodal potassium channel protein Kv1 . 1 displayed an abnormal localization , frequently displaced into the adjacent internodal region , and to a minor extent into paranodes . Kv1 . 1 clusters were in the majority of cases still maintained at juxtaparanodes , suggesting that internodal mislocalization is secondary  . Indeed , the pathology of internodal Kv1 channels progressively increased with age frequently presenting more than one extra cluster along one internode in aged mutants , while shifts into the nodal direction were not progressive  . We confirmed the observation of displaced juxtaparanodal Kv1 channels using Kv1 . At 9 months , we determined a twofold overall increase of Kv1 . 1 in nerve lysates  . However , as most Kv1 . 1 is expressed by unmyelinated fibers , the increase of internodal Kv1 . Neuronal CASPR2 , the cis-anchor for Kv1 channels in the axonal membrane , and TAG-1 on SC are essential for channel clustering at juxtaparanodes  . Both proteins colocalized with Kv1 . In contrast , staining for myelin-associated glycoprotein  did not reveal a connection between Schmidt-Lanterman incisures and the ectopic Kv1 . 1/TAG-1/CASPR2-positive clusters  . Although , we cannot exclude that enhanced expression of TAG-1 contributes to the formation of ectopic protein clusters , the observations suggest that in mutant nerves entire membrane patches of the juxtaparanodal compartment accumulate , break-off , and drift into the internodal region . Abnormal distribution of axonal ion channels Kv1 . 1 , its anchoring proteins , and associated lipids in conditional Pex5 mutant nerves . Immune-stained sciatic teased fibers of 2- and 9-month-old mice reveal normally localized nodal sodium channels  flanked by paranodal CASPR  . Only mutant nerves show extra Kv1 . This is progressive with age shown by the corresponding quantification at different ages , starting at P19 , revealing a shift of Kv1 . n = 3 for P19 and 1 month; n = 5 for 2 months; n = 7 for>9 months . Western blot analysis of sciatic nerve lysates of 9-month-old mice shows increased Kv1 . 1 protein abundance in mutant nerve lysates . Kv1-anchoring proteins  CASPR2 and TAG-1 showed in addition to normal juxtaparanodal localization an ectopic internodal  and occasionally a partial overlap  with paranodal CASPR  in mutant sciatic teased fibers . Quantification of TAG-1/Kv1 . qRT-PCR analysis  for TAG-1 showing a tendency of increased mRNA expression in mutant compared to control nerves at 2 months . Mass spectrometry of sciatic nerve lysates  obtained at the age of 9 months shows percentage of GD1 species per genotype containing 41 , 43 , or 44 C-atoms  . 74% of GD1 in control lysates contain 41 carbons , species with more carbons are absent , while highly enriched in mutant nerve lysates . Antibody-staining for gangliosides of nerves from mice aged 9 months shows GD1a+ vesicles abnormally distended into mutant internodes  . GM1 is localized at paranodes of control fibers , but extends into mu internodes . Dotted lines indicate borders of myelinated fibers . Normal distribution of nodal proteins and associated anchors in Pex5 mutant nerves . Immune-stained sciatic teased fibers of 2- and 9-month-old mice . Nodal sodium  and potassium  channels are normally localized and flanked by paranodal CASPR  . Ion channel anchoring proteins βIV-spectrin   and ankyrinG   are normally localized to nodes of Ranvier and flanked by paranodal CASPR  . Potassium channel Kv1 . 1 clusters  are located at juxtaparanodes but in mutants additionally localize along internodes . 6  , paranodal CASPR  , and juxtaparanodal potassium channels Kv1 . 1  shows preservation of Kv1 . 1 at juxtaparanodes and at mesaxonal lines  of mutant fibers . In addition , ectopic internodal Kv1 . Abnormal distribution of GM1 ganglioside in the perinodal region of mutant nerves by CTB-staining . GM1-labeling by CTB  of sciatic teased fibers from mice aged 9 months shows a defined paranodal staining in control  but is more distended in mutant fibers  . 010 Gangliosides are glycosphingolipids important for stabilizing membrane-spanning proteins and axon-glia interactions  . We analyzed sciatic nerve lysates from 9-month-old mutants by lipid mass spectrometry and noted that many more gangliosides contained VLCFA  . To determine their subcellular distribution , we stained teased fibers with a fluorescently tagged cholera-toxin subunit B  , which binds GM1 gangliosides . Also by immunostaining , GM1 was restricted to paranodes in wild-type nerves but widely dispersed into the internodal myelin of mutant nerves  . Likewise , ganglioside GD1a could be immunostained as enlarged puncta  in internodal myelin of mutant nerves  . These GD1a-containing vesicles that colocalized with LAMP1 were a frequent finding in mutant internodes , but rarely observed in controls  . Hallmarks of lysosomal storage disorders in Pex5 mutant nerves . Double-staining of sciatic teased fibers displayed giant GD1a+  vesicles that colocalized with LAMP1  in internodes only of mutant animals  . Dotted lines indicate borders of myelinated fibers; scale bar in inset , 5 µm . Electron microscopy of a teased and sectioned mutant sciatic nerve depicting paranodal vesicle accumulations . Immuno-electron microscopy of sciatic nerves from mice aged 9 months identifies enlarged LAMP1+ vesicles  within paranodal loops  . M , myelin; Ax , axon . Immunolabeling of teased sciatic nerves at the age of 2 months shows enlarged LAMP1+  or LIMP-2+  compartments close to CASPR+ paranodes  of mutant nerves . Analysis of sciatic nerve lysates by Western blotting  and qRT-PCR  for LAMP1 and LIMP-2 showing increased protein , but decreased mRNA levels in mutants . Immunostaining of control sciatic fibers shows close association of peroxisomal PMP70  and LAMP1 on lysosomal membranes  in the paranodal region , suggesting physical interactions . Dotted lines indicate borders of the myelinated fiber . Lysosomal enzyme activities of nerve lysates was enhanced in mutants compared to controls as assessed by assays using substrates of α-Mannosidase  and β-Hexosaminidase  . Lysosomal accumulation within paranodal loops . Characterization of paranodal vesicle inclusions in Pex5 mutant nerves . Immunofluorescence showing normal abundance of early/late endosomal and autophagosomal vesicles  in the vicinity of nodes of Ranvier  of teased fibers obtained from 9-month-old animals . RAB7 , Ras-related protein 7  ; EEA1 , early endosome-associated protein 1  ; ATG5 , autophagy-related protein 5  . 013 Paranodal loops in conditional mutants showed vesicular inclusions of variable size and electron-density  . By immune-labeling of ultra-thin cryosections and teased fibers , the majority of these were LAMP1-positive  . Even more striking , lysosomal LIMP-2 marked small puncta in controls  , but giant compartments within mutant paranodes  . Decreased mRNA levels  suggest that the enrichment of LAMP1 and LIMP-2 marks organelle accumulation rather than enhanced lysosomal biogenesis . Neither marker was increased at mutant paranodes  . Therefore , the majority of accumulating vesicles within mutant paranodes are likely bona fide lysosomes , serving the degradation of myelin-associated proteins/lipids , including gangliosides  . To determine the relationship between paranodal lysosomes  and peroxisomes , we immunostained for PMP70 and LAMP1 , revealing a close spatial association  as reported for cultured cells  . We determined higher activities of lysosomal α-mannosidase and β-hexosaminidase in mutant nerve lysates  , and note that increased compartment size and enzymatic activities are known phenomena of lysosomal disorders  , yet associated with organelle dysfunction . Theoretically , complete peroxisomal failure in Cnp-Cre::Pex5flox/flox mice could perturb many aspects of SC metabolism in the observed neuropathy . However , we found that Cnp-Cre::Hsd17b4flox/flox mice  , which specifically lack peroxisomal β-oxidation  , share the key features of this novel phenotype , including ectopic internodal Kv1 . 1 clusters  , confirming the important role for glial lipid metabolism in maintaining axonal membrane composition , and function . To investigate whether this new pathomechanism , identified in two mouse models with a glia-specific mutation , is also relevant for a human genetic disease , we analyzed ABCD1-deficient mice , a model for X-ALD/AMN  . Sciatic nerve axons and myelin were morphologically intact , even at 22 months of age  . However , ABCD1-mutants exhibited a similar mislocalization of Kv1 . 1 positive channels as observed in both conditional  mutants . The quantification showed that mislocalization of internodal Kv1 . In accordance with our model of membrane patches drifting into internodes , significant alterations were observed only at 22 months of age , but not yet at 2 months  . This pathology was accompanied by lysosomal accumulates in myelinated fibers  . Normal nerve morphology , but ectopic ion channels and lysosomal accumulates in 22 months aged Abcd1 null mutants . Analysis of nerve morphology using entire methylene blue-stained semithin cross-sections  and g-ratios as measure of myelin thickness by electron microscopy of sciatic nerves  obtained from control and Abcd1 knockout mice  . Immune-stained teased sciatic nerve fibers obtained from mutants and controls with corresponding quantifications show progressively abnormal Kv1 . Analysis of lysosomes reveals LAMP1+ and LIMP-2+ accumulations  by immune-stained sciatic teased fibers  and a mild increase of lysosomal β-Hexosaminidase activity measured using sciatic nerve lysates  . Ectopic , internodal Kv1-channel clusters in nerves of conditional MFP2 knockout mice . Fluorescent image of aged  Cnp-Cre::Mfp2flox/flox  sciatic teased nerve fibers show normal distribution of nodal Nav1 . 6  , paranodal CASPR  , and juxtaparanodal Kv1 . Mutant fibers exhibit in addition ectopic internodal Kv1 . Quantification of ectopic Kv1 . 1 channel distribution at paranodes  or internodes  . Enzyme assay measuring lysosomal β-Hexosaminidase in nerve lysates from animals aged 16 months showing increased activity in mutant nerve lysates . Functional impairment of MFP2 mutant compared to control sciatic nerves assessed by ex vivo electrophysiology at age 16 months  . Mfp2 mutant nerves display smaller responses  as compared to controls  when elicited at stimulus intensities of 0 . Peak amplitudes plotted against increasing stimulus intensity indicate reduced compound action potentials of MFP2 mutant nerves  compared to controls  at all intensities measured . Hypothetical model for lipid turnover of the juxtaparanodal anchoring complex of Kv1-channels . Myelin TAG-1 is stabilized by gangliosides  within juxtaparanodes  . For normal turnover  of JXP domains , SC require lysosomes  and peroxisomes  that degrade GS  . When GS degradation is perturbed  , indicated by impaired peroxisomes  , GS accumulate within enlarged lysosomes  , storage vesicles  , and likely within JXP . Excess GS within JXP stabilize the protein complex containing TAG-1  , CASPR2  and Kv1 . 1  proteins , which thereby escape normal turnover , leading to domains breaking-off and drifting into internodes . Our data suggest an important pathomechanism of peroxisomal dysfunction in peripheral nerves is the secondary impairment of lysosomes . For example , gangliosides , which are frequently esterified with VLCFA and 2-hydroxy fatty acids  , must be degraded in lysosomes . However , subsequent β-oxidation of VLCFA and 2-hydroxy fatty acids requires peroxisomes  . Thus , our mouse model provides first in vivo evidence for functional interactions between lysosomes and peroxisomes , so far only discussed for cultured cells  . One consequence of lysosomal impairment is the perturbation of normal ganglioside turnover . Gangliosides are in close association with Kv1-anchoring proteins  and provide stability to the juxtaparanodal clusters  , which resemble giant membrane 'lipid rafts' . As mechanism for ectopic localization of axonal Kv1 channels , we suggest the following working model  : Lack of ganglioside breakdown causes their accumulation in the glial juxtaparanodal membrane . Thereby , clusters of Kv1 and associated anchoring proteins  on the axonal side gain abnormal stability , break-off , diffuse into the internodal region , and escape from regular turnover . It is likely that also glial TAG-1 remains anchored to the axonal Kv1-/CASPR2-/TAG-1 clusters , but this cannot be distinguished by TAG-1 immunofluorescence . Kv1-channels are fast-opening , voltage-gated channels that are activated by mild voltage-shifts and thought to regulate fiber excitability  . The integrity of Kv1 channels is also impaired in CASPR2-/- mice , but perturbation of nerve function is not a feature  . Unlike PEX5 mutant nerves , CASPR2-/- nerves do not exhibit elevated levels of Kv1 . Also , the ectopic Kv1 . 1+ clusters are situated directly adjacent to juxtaparanodes in CASPR2-deficient fibers , not along the internodes as observed in PEX5 mutants . Considering the severe progressive decline of nerve function in PEX5 mutant mice , which becomes clearly more affected with age  , it is unlikely that a rather non-progressive pathology , that is the shift of Kv1 into paranodes , is the underlying cause of conduction slowing . In contrast , the progressive shift of Kv1 toward internodes correlates well with disease progression . Theoretically , Kv1-mediated currents in the internode could hyperpolarize the axonal membrane and dampen the conductivity of spiking axons . Such ‘feedback regulation’ might prevent hyperexcitability , which is a feature of mice lacking Kv1 . On the other hand , a ‘gain-of-function’ effect by opening additional ectopic internodal Kv1 channels , may contribute to a disturbed equilibrium of axonal ions causing slowed NCV and conduction blocks . Direct proof of this model would require patch clamping single axons underneath myelin , which is impossible at present . Similarly , conditional PEX5 knockout mice display a cerebral inflammatory demyelination , while such pathology is absent in sciatic nerves . Also in ABCD1-deficient nerves neither demyelination nor axon degeneration , but ectopic axonal Kv1 channels was a progressive pathological feature as early as at 2 months of age , preceding the disease onset by more than 1 year  . Our present findings therefore expand the emerging role of myelinating glial cells in maintaining axonal membrane composition and thereby influencing axonal function , independent of myelin itself . Cnp1Cre/+ and Pex5ﬂox/flox mice with C57/Bl6 genetic background were genotyped as described  . PCR was performed with sense  and antisense primers  generating a 330 bp amplicon after Cre-mediated excision of the floxed Pex5 gene in conditional knockout mice . Hsd17b4ﬂox/flox  mice and Abcd1 knockout mice with C57/Bl6 genetic background were genotyped by PCR as described  . For visualization of gangliosides sciatic nerves of Cnp-Cre::Pex5flox/flox mice and controls were dissected and pre-teased in artificial cerebrospinal fluid  . For other antibody-labeling , sciatic nerves were dissected , teased and stored at −20°C as described previously  . For staining protein antigens , frozen teased fibers were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde  for 5 min , permeabilized in methanol at −20°C for 3–5 min , PBS-washed , and blocked for 1 hr in PBS containing 10% horse serum and 0 . Mouse sciatic nerves were fixed overnight in 4% PFA , embedded in paraffin , and longitudinally sectioned  . Sciatic nerves were dissected and post-fixed for 2–4 hr in 4% followed by overnight incubation in 1% PFA . Epon embedding of sciatic nerves was performed as described previously  . Semithin cross-sections  of sciatic nerves were incubated with methylene blue/Azur II and axons of entire cross-sections of sciatic nerves were analyzed by light microscopy  . Myelin thickness was evaluated using Fiji software by g-ratio analysis  derived from at least 100 randomly chosen fibers per nerve . Sciatic nerves were transferred to 200 µl  ice-cold lysis buffer containing 1% Triton X-100 , 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7 . Samples were homogenized using Precellys 24  , centrifuged for 10 min at 1000 g to remove cellular nuclei , and protein concentration of the supernatant was determined using Lowry assay  . Western Lightning + ECL Kit  was used to label protein bands , which were detected using Intas ChemoCam Image system . 1G  AnkG  , APP  , ATG5  , CASPR  , CASPR2  , Catalase  , CD3  , EEA1  , Kv1 . 1  , Kv1 . 1  , Kv7 . 6  , NF155  , P0  ; P2  , PLP  , PMP22  , PMP70  , RAB7  , TAG-1  , ßiv spectrin  , α-Tubulin  , III β-Tubulin  . Sciatic nerves were homogenized using Precellys 24  in 150 µl ice-cold lysis buffer containing 10 mM Tris-HCl pH 7 . Nerve lysates were centrifuged for 10 min at 15 , 000 g to remove cellular debris and nuclei . Total RNA was extracted from sciatic nerve lysates as described previously  . Reactions were performed with four technical replicates of nerves obtained from six different animals per group . PCR primers were specific for β-actin  , Lamp1  , Limp-2  , and Pex5  . To quantify PE  , PE O-  , and PE P-  species , acidic  or neutral  lipid extractions were performed as described  . As lipid standards , 50 pmol of PE standards and 40–60 pmol of a PE P- standards were used . PE/PE O- and PE P- species were analyzed in neutral loss or precursor ion mode selecting for class-specific fragments on a QTRAP5500  equipped with a NanoMate devise  , employing MS settings as described  . Species annotated as PE O- mainly contain plasmenylethanoamines but also minor amounts of PE P- species and PE species with odd-numbered fatty acids . Extraction of gangliosides was performed as described  , with the exception that the first neutral extraction was performed using chloroform:methanol as a 17:1  solution , followed by a chloroform:methanol 2:1  extraction . For quantification of gangliosides , GD1a and GD1b 50 pmol N-CD3-Stearoyl GM3 and N-CD3-Stearoyl-GM1  were used as internal ganglioside standards . Gangliosides were subjected to UHPLC-MS analysis , using a CSH C18 column  coupled to a QExactive high-resolution Orbitrap mass spectrometer  equipped with an ESI source . For GD1a/b quantification , 30 µl aliquots of the aqueous and the chloroform:methanol  phase were transferred to Eppendorf cups , evaporated and resuspended in 50 µl buffer containing 60% of mobile phase A ( acetonitrile:water; 60:40  with 10 mM ammonium formate and 0 . In addition to Full MS scans , all ion fragmentation scans in negative ion mode were performed at a resolution of 70 , 000 , scanning a mass range of 120–600 m/z with a normalized collision energy set to 30 eV . Following cervical dislocation mouse sciatic nerves were rapidly transferred into a perfusion chamber filled with gassed ACSF at 37°C containing in mM: 126 NaCl , 3 KCl , 26 NaHCO3 , 1 . Nerves’ lengths were measured and were then allowed to adapt for approximately 30 min before electrophysiological recordings began . Each nerve was analyzed separately . Nerve conduction velocity was calculated for each of the stimulus intensities as the mean across trials of the ratio between the length of the nerve and the time between peaks of stimulus-artifact  and response  . Mice aged 9 months were anesthetized with ketaminhydrochloride  /xylazin hydrochloride  . Steel needle electrodes were placed subcutaneously , one pair at sciatic notch  , a second pair at the tibial nerve above the ankle  . Statistical significance was determined using GraphPad Prism5 by two-way ANOVA or the two-tailed Student's t test for unpaired samples assuming unequal variance and p values below 0 . "
"Using murine hair follicle as a model , we show that when junctional perturbations in the niche disrupt barrier function , adjacent stem cells dramatically change their transcriptome independent of bacterial invasion and become capable of directly signaling to and recruiting immune cells . Additionally , these stem cells elevate cell cycle transcripts which reduce their quiescence threshold , enabling them to selectively proliferate within this microenvironment of immune distress cues . However , rather than mobilizing to fuel new tissue regeneration , these ectopically proliferative stem cells remain within their niche to contain the breach . Together , our findings expose a potential communication relay system that operates from the niche to the stem cells to the immune system and back . The repurposing of proliferation by these stem cells patch the breached barrier , stoke the immune response and restore niche integrity . Together , the tight interaction and cooperativity between stem cells and their niche allow stem cells to perform their critical task of maintaining tissue homeostasis and function throughout the lifetime of the organism . These factors include both positive and negative signals emanating from a diverse array of niche cells , including stromal cells , blood vessels , nerves and stem cell progeny  . Far less is known about how stem cells cope with perturbations in niche integrity and orchestrate responses to restore niche homeostasis . In the current study , we tackle this problem by taking advantage of the relatively simple architecture of the hair follicle  bulge , the niche in which stem cells of the HF reside  . It consists of a single concentric layer of stem cells that is sandwiched between a basement membrane on the outer side and a layer of terminally differentiated epithelial barrier ‘niche’ cells on the inner side . These ‘inner bulge’ niche cells are exposed to the external environment through an open channel that enables the hair to protrude from the skin surface  . The cells derive from the stem cells , but they do not do so directly within the bulge . Rather , the barrier cells are generated late in the terminal differentiation pathway of stem cell progeny that produce the new hair  . Indeed , besides forming this epithelial barrier , the bulge stem cells also fuel the episodic bouts of hair follicle  regeneration  needed to replenish the protective hair coat of the animal . At the bulge base  , quiescent stem cells interact with a specialized underlying mesenchymal structure , called the dermal papilla  . Stem cells tether to their inner bulge niche through cadherins , the core transmembrane components of adherens junctions  , which coordinate intercellular adhesion , junctional integrity and proliferation in epithelial tissues  . While bulge stem cells express both E- and P-cadherin , we discovered that the inner bulge niche expresses only E-cadherin . Here , we report that selective loss of E-cadherin within the inner bulge niche triggers a barrier breach that results in microbial invasion . Strikingly , they also activate a transcriptome that , when compared to proliferating anagen-phase stem cells in a normal niche , is similar in cell cycle genes , but differs in a cohort of immune-signaling genes . Indeed , the myriad of chemo-attractants , cytokines and growth factors induced by these stem cells when they experience a damaged niche is required to recruit immune cells into this otherwise purportedly ‘immune privileged’ site  . The outcome of this atypical two-pronged path to stem cell proliferation , namely enhanced immune signaling and cell cycling , is a repurposing of new daughter stem cells from their normal task of tissue regeneration and towards patching the breached barrier . Our data reveal that stem cells have the potential to sense defects in the integrity of their niche and respond by activating two branches of a transcriptional program , which together cope with the compromised tissue function surrounding them . We became interested in the possibility that cadherins may function critically in HF stem cell niche integrity when we analyzed bulge cadherin expression during the extended , synchronized telogen phase of the second hair cycle in mice  . E-cadherin localized to most epithelial cell-cell boundaries , displaying the strongest immuno-labeling at the interface between niche cells and stem cells . Conversely , P-cadherin specifically concentrated at stem cell intercellular junctions and was absent from niche cells . This was consistent with the ~20X higher Cdh3 transcript level in the stem cells versus niche cells . Indeed , as judged by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays  on protein lysates of bulge stem cells  , P-cadherin levels were even higher than E-cadherin  . E-cadherin was maintained at all cell-cell junctions within the P-cadherin depleted bulge , and hair germ cells became proliferative on cue during early anagen  . To explore the functional consequences of E-cadherin loss of function  in the bulge , we conditionally ablated its gene  in Cdh1fl/fl; Rosa26lox-STOP-lox-YFP reporter mice by using a tamoxifen  -inducible CreER knocked into the endogenous locus of Sox9 . Cdh1-null HF stem cells continued to display AJs along stem cell-stem cell borders , reflective of P-cadherin compensation  . In fact , by immunoblot analyses and quantifications of proteins from FACS-purified α6+CD34+ HF stem cells , P-cadherin levels in E-cadherin deficient HF stem cells were even higher than normal  , a feature confirmed by knocking down Cdh1 transcripts through shRNA  . By contrast , the Cdh1-null inner bulge layer lacked P-cadherin and in turn AJs on all cell-cell borders  . Since AJ formation requires intercellular cadherin-cadherin binding , this also left the stem cell-niche interface devoid of AJs . Immunoblot analyses confirmed the overall reduction in these other AJ proteins , despite upregulation of P-cadherin in stem cells within the Cdh1-depleted bulge  . In wild-type HFs , F-actin organization was particularly robust within the inner bulge , suggesting a special role for the cytoskeletal-intercellular networks within this layer of niche cells . However , in the absence of E-cadherin , the actin cytoskeletal organization was markedly perturbed throughout the inner bulge , including the stem cell-niche interface  . As shown in Figure 1F and Figure 1—figure supplement 2E , the expression , localization , continuity and stability of tight junction proteins were largely intact in the CD34+ stem cells , but disrupted in the niche cells of the bulge . Although our findings underscored the importance of E-cadherin in maintaining AJs , tight junctions and the integrity of the niche , niche cells were not lost from the bulge: desmosomes were still present in seemingly normal morphology , numbers and localization , and intercellular membranes at the niche-stem cell interface were still sealed  . The inner bulge layer also remain adhered to the club hair via ‘half-desmosomal’ structures as previously described for WT bulge   . As in the normal hair cycle , telogen-phase stem cells in Cdh1-heterozygous HFs were quiescent until anagen onset , when their proliferation initiated first within the hair germ  , and several days later within the bulge   . Upon homozygous Cdh1 ablation , however , telogen-phase bulge stem cell residents began proliferating  . Normally , whether in homeostasis or in response to a wound , for example hair plucking , HF stem cell proliferation results in progeny that exit their niche and launch a new round of hair cycling  . By contrast , the daughters of proliferative events in the telogen Cdh1-null bulge remained within the niche  . Instead of being utilized to launch a new hair cycle , this telogen-phase stem cell proliferation produced additional bulge layers , readily evident by 5 weeks post-Cdh1 ablation  . Daughters retained stem cell identity as judged by bulge stem cell markers CD34 and LHX2 , and by factors such as TCF4 and SOX9 , which are expressed but not exclusively by HF stem cells  . Quantifications revealed a significant expansion of stem cell numbers within the Cdh1-null bulge  . Despite the increased proliferation in telogen , Cdh1-null HF stem cells were still sensitive to the activating cues of the hair cycle , and returned to a non-dividing state as inhibitory levels rose in subsequent anagen and telogen  . We next addressed whether the bulge stem cells proliferated because of their own Cdh1 loss or that of the niche . Since changes in AJs can impact proliferation  , we first considered whether the elevated P-cadherin seen in the Cdh1-null stem cells might be involved . However , when we engineered mice whose skin epithelium was selectively transduced with doxycycline  -inducible Cdh3 , we saw no significant effect on stem cell proliferation upon induction of P-cadherin over-expression  . Next , we used Krt15-CrePGR mice  to selectively ablate Cdh1 in bulge stem cells during the extended 2nd telogen  . Strikingly , the ectopic stem cell proliferation and expansion of bulge layers that we had observed upon Cdh1 ablation in both stem cells and inner bulge , did not occur upon stem cell-specific ablation  . Since the inner bulge niche is derived from stem cell progeny that terminally differentiate towards the end of the hair cycle  , we could test our hypothesis by monitoring Krt15CrePGR-activated Cdh1 cKO mice through subsequent hair cycles , when E-cadherin was also lost in the niche  . Indeed , bulge stem cells proliferated and expanded concomitant with E-cadherin loss within the inner bulge  . Notably , selective Cdh1 ablation in the inner bulge niche was sufficient to elicit an architectural shift to a triple layered bulge , even though the stem cells were now WT  . Together , these findings suggest that bulge stem cell proliferation may rely at least in part upon the direct interface between the stem cells and their defective inner bulge niche . These findings highlighted the importance of a healthy inner bulge niche in guarding its stem cells and the skin against microbial infiltration . A priori , the stem cells might be responding to these microbes that infiltrate the breached barrier , rather than the damaged niche per se . Altogether , while our findings do not discount a role for bacterial signals , they rule them out as the instigating factor in causing stem cell proliferation when the niche barrier was breached . Upon barrier breach , a swarm of immune cells , positive for the pan-leukocyte marker CD45 , selectively surrounded the bulge  . Although CD45+ numbers per unit area of skin varied , when we quantified the number of CD45+ cells within a 25 μm radius of the bulge , we consistently observed a marked and statistically significant increase in immune cells surrounding the Cdh1 null bulge as compared to the WT control bulge  . Yet surprisingly , we found that immune cells had already begun to accumulate by D23 post Cdh1 ablation , before the increase in 16S rRNA and shift to a triple layered bulge architecture which were robust only by D35  . By contrast , when we used Krt15CrePGR-activated mice to selectively ablate Cdh1 from 2nd telogen HF stem cells , immune cells were not recruited until subsequent hair cycles , when the inner bulge layer became Cdh1-null  . A robust immune response also encircled the bulge when we ablated Cdh1 selectively in the inner bulge and not in stem cells  . While many immune cells , including dendritic cells  , macrophages , γδ dendritic epidermal T cells  , γδ TCR+ dermal T cells , and αβTCR+ dermal T cells , are known to be residents of the skin  , this immune response arising from the breached niche went well beyond the normal surveillance status of the immune system . Moreover , the composition of the CD45+ immune cells that infiltrated the breached bulge showed clear differences from the normal resident immune cell patterns . Most notable was the increase in immunostaining for CD3+ T cells and CD11b+ myeloid lineage cells , including MHC-class II+ dendritic cells and F4/80+ macrophages  . We observed a significant increase in the MHCII+ CD11c+ cells  which are defined as dendritic cells since these cells are also negative/low for CD64 , Mertk or Ly6C  . Focusing on T cells that were concentrated near breached bulge niches , γδ T cell and DETC numbers were comparable between WT and Cdh1 cKO skins , although DETC numbers were quite variable even among control samples  . Many of these T cells were positive for FOXP3 , a marker for regulatory T cells  , and further quantification revealed statistically significant increases in both absolute numbers and percentages of Tregs relative to the total αβ T cell population  . A priori , this could mean that Cdh1-null inner bulge cells produce the chemokines that recruit the immune cells . Alternatively , upon detecting an AJ-deficient interface with the breached niche , stem cells , whether Cdh1-null or wild-type , might respond by producing and transmitting stress signals to the immune system . To distinguish between these possibilities , we FACS-purified and transcriptionally profiled inner bulge niche cells  and stem cells  from telogen-phase Cdh1 cKO and control littermate bulges . To tease out changes specific to stem cells residing in the breached niche , we also performed RNA-sequencing  on WT bulge stem cells in anagen II/III , that is the only time when they naturally proliferate  . Our data were consistent across independent replicates , enabling us to generate molecular signatures of transcripts that were differentially expressed  in either niche cells  or stem cells  from Cdh1-null versus control bulges  . Scrutinizing the specific genes within each of the top four KEGG pathway categories of the Cdh1-null inner bulge profile , we found that transcripts encoding cell adhesion , proteoglycans and cytoskeletal-associated proteins were featured highly , consistent with a feedback attempt by these junction-compromised cells to restore the barrier , while metabolic pathways were downregulated  . By contrast , cell cycle genes and immune signaling and response genes dominated the most highly changed pathways in the stem cells from Cdh1-null bulge niches  . Moreover , in contrast to these proliferative stem cells within the telogen Cdh1-null niche , neither proliferative WT stem cells within an Ana II/III WT bulge nor quiescent WT stem cells within a telogen WT bulge showed expression of these immune pathway genes  . Principal Component Analyses further highlighted these marked distinctions between proliferative bulge stem cells devoted to normal tissue growth and those repurposed here to add cell layers to the damaged niche  . Our analyses also revealed salient differences in the transcriptional responses of niche versus stem cells within the damaged bulge  . Indeed , closer inspection of individual genes within this and related immune cell categories of the niche transcriptome revealed that levels of these niche transcripts were often considerably lower and less significant than in their stem cell neighbors  . By contrast , of the cytokine and chemokine genes that were highly changed in the stem cell transcriptome  , most were substantially more highly expressed by these stem cells than their Cdh1-null niche neighbors , even when the stem cells surrounding a Cdh1-null inner bulge niche were wild-type  . Ccl1 and Ccl2 were the top two most highly upregulated genes in this stem cell cohort  , and like most of this transcriptome , were barely expressed by the neighboring breached niche . Importantly , not only were Ccl1 , Ccl2 and many other features of these signatures robustly expressed by the HF stem cells experiencing a breached niche , but this response still occurred even when microbial infiltration was repressed  . This suggested that the stem cells recruited immune cells in direct response to the damaged niche rather than the bacteria that infiltrated . Since CCL2 is an established chemokine for the CCR2 receptor , expressed by both DCs and macrophages , we focused first on the potential interactions between stem cells and these immune cells . To mimic the damaged niche microenvironment in vitro , we used Cdh1-null HF stem cells , which retained elevated Ccl2 in culture  . We then tested their ability against WT HF stem cells to recruit bone marrow-derived DCs and macrophages in transwell migration assays . On the other hand , while the migration of macrophages in response to Cdh1-null HF stem cells followed a similar trend , the difference was highly variable and thus not statistically significant . Strikingly , these in vitro patterns of DC and macrophage migration were consistent with our in vivo immune cell profiling  , and revealed that Cdh1-null but not WT stem cells can directly attract DCs , and to a lesser extent macrophages , through a CCL2-CCR2-dependent mechanism . To test the significance of HF stem cell CCL1 , we repeated the cell migration assays as above , this time using a CCR8 blocking antibody to disrupt a potential CCL1-CCR8 interaction . These findings were important as they indicated that HF stem cells experiencing a barrier breach in their niche can activate chemokines and directly recruit the immune cells that we see elevated upon a barrier breach . We next addressed whether immune cells are required to trigger the stem cell proliferation that generated a thickened bulge . We waited until D18 post-Tam treatment , when Cdh1 was ablated , but immune cells had not yet been recruited to the bulge  . While not eliminating the resident skin immune cells , Dex effectively blocked the immune infiltration that otherwise surrounded the breached niche barrier in Cdh1 cKO HFs  . Accordingly , both the telogen-phase proliferation displayed by stem cells in their deficient niche , and the concomitant increase in stem cell numbers , were now abolished . This was further reflected by the enhanced BMP-signaling effector phosphorylated-SMAD1  , which in normal stem cells only diminishes in Anagen II/III when the natural activating cues override BMP quiescence signals from the inner bulge niche  . Thus , inner bulge-derived BMP6 , a prerequisite for these pSMAD1 signaling dynamics , was still expressed by the Cdh1-null inner bulge cells , and correspondingly , the HF stem cells experiencing the breached niche still expressed BMP target genes , including Nfatc1 and Foxc1  . Since ablating only one immune component can have a profound effect on the remaining immune cell repertoire , it was necessary to use total immune cell suppression , rather than genetic ablation of specific immune cell populations . This finding also added to the evidence that the microbial infiltration arose from the loss of junctional integrity within the Cdh1-null niche , and not from the associated architectural disturbances caused by stem cell proliferation in the Cdh1-null niche . Given these collective results , we focused on immune cell infiltration as the root of stem cell proliferation and expanded bulge structure . Closer inspection revealed that DCs and Tregs were closely associated with each other when surrounding the breached niche , and Dex treatment markedly blocked their infiltration into the Cdh1-null bulge niche  . Moreover , the immunosuppressive effects of Dex appeared to be specific for the immune infiltration to the bulge , as immune cells elsewhere in the skin remained during the Dex treatment  . Since Dex blocked immune infiltration into the breached niche , and since immune infiltration was essential for the specific proliferation of bulge stem cells that we observed , we turned to in vitro studies to address whether DCs or Tregs might directly affect HF stem cell proliferation . By compartmentalizing the immune cells , we then assessed the effects of their secreted factors on the proliferation of HF stem cells . As shown in Figure 6D , while DCs showed no appreciable effect on HF stem cells , Tregs appeared to be particularly robust in soliciting a proliferative response . In wild-type skin , resident Tregs , which are positive for NOTCH ligand JAG1 , have been proposed to promote HF stem cell proliferation through direct engagement and activation of Notch target genes  . If so , we might have expected to see an elevation of Notch target genes in the stem cells of the Cdh1 null bulge , given the marked elevation of Tregs within close proximity . We also examined the status of a cohort of HF stem cell genes reported to bind activated NOTCH in a ChIP-seq analysis of a muscle cell line   . Indeed , most of these and established NOTCH target genes were very lowly expressed in normal telogen phase HF stem cells , consistent with the well-documented role for NOTCH signaling in HF differentiation , rather than bulge stem cell proliferation  . Importantly , NOTCH target genes were not elevated appreciably in HF stem cells when the niche barrier was altered and swarmed with Tregs . Rather , we surmise that Tregs’ proliferative effects that we observed on HF stem cells here are more likely to be rooted in amphiregulin and/or keratinocyte growth factor , known to be robustly expressed by Tregs in an inflammatory setting  . Since the telogen-phase HF stem cells in a Cdh1-mutant niche were proliferative , and YAP is known to influence proliferation , the elevation in Ccne1 and other YAP target genes governing proliferation seemed at first glance to suggest altered YAP activity . Finally , to identify the portion of the stem cell transcriptome signature that is independent of immune cell infiltration , we performed RNA-seq on stem cells isolated from Dex-treated Cdh1-null and control bulges of telogen-phase HFs and compared their transcriptomes to their non-treated counterparts . A total of 509 genes were found to be significantly upregulated in stem cells from Dex-treated Cdh1-null versus control niches . Despite stem cells being un-proliferative under Dex treatment , the top KEGG pathway enriched among these 392 overlapping genes was still cell cycle  . A similar trend was observed for many of the immune response genes , whose expression persisted in HF stem cells in a breached niche even under immunosuppressive conditions  . Taken together , our findings suggested that the necessary threshold level of cell cycle transcripts required to push telogen-phase stem cells into proliferation was contributed in part by the Cdh1-null niche and in part by the ability of these stem cells to recruit immune cells . Seeking why telogen-phase proliferation of stem cells was dependent upon not only immune cells but also niche status , we were drawn once again to the reduction in adherens junction proteins that stem cells experienced when they resided in the Cdh1-null bulge niche  . Of additional note , many of the immune response transcripts that remained elevated in the HF stem cells of Dex-treated cKO skin were putative NFkB target genes , including Tnfa , Ccl2 , Ccl1 , Csf1 , Cxcl1 and Ccl20  . Intriguingly , by immunofluorescence , NFkB showed nuclear localization in telogen-phase Cdh1-null HF stem cells  , which also had reduced p120 levels  . Although dexamethasone has been reported to dampen NFkB signaling by elevating IkBα transcription  , it only had a partial effect in Cdh1-null HF stem cells under conditions where IkBα phosphorylation was enhanced  . While further details are beyond the scope of the present study , our results suggest a mechanism whereby when the barrier is breached , reductions in adherens junctions impacts the activity of transcription factors such as NFkB , that can directly alter the transcriptional landscape of the HF stem cells in a way that promotes immune cell recruitment , and reduces , but does not overcome , the threshold for proliferation  . The bulge niche of HF stem cells is strategically positioned at the base of this orifice that opens to the external environment . In our current study , we show that in addition to its role as a source of inhibitory signals for its stem cells  , the inner bulge provides the barrier that protects stem cells from microbial invasion . In exploring how stem cells cope when their barrier is breached , we learned that by co-expressing P- and E-cadherin , the stem cells themselves are protected from the many situations where E-cadherin levels are naturally downregulated , which includes stem cell activation at the start of the hair cycle  . Our new data substantiates this further , as when E-cadherin is lost from HF stem cells , they markedly upregulate P-cadherin . Through their immediate proximity to the inner bulge layer , the HF stem cells are poised to sense a barrier breach . Although the precise details await further investigation , the roots are likely to reside in the inability of stem cells to form adherens junctions with their Cdh1-null niche neighbors , which lack a cadherin backup system . As our data revealed , intercellular cadherin-cadherin junctions are featured prominently at the stem cell-niche interface of healthy HF bulges . As we learned , once stem cells face a breach in their niche barrier , they trigger a distress transcriptional program that we show occurs even in the face of antibiotics or immune suppressive drugs and is strikingly different from the response elicited in the neighboring niche cells . Of additional relevance to our study are previous observations that hair plucking enhances hair cycling , an effect which has been postulated on the one hand to be triggered by the loss of the BMP-expressing inner bulge niche cells  but on the other hand to an elevation of Ccl2 and inflammatory macrophages in the skin  . While intriguing , none of these prior studies have revealed whether stem cells are specifically capable of altering their transcriptional program in response to perturbations in their microenvironment and if they can , whether this endows them with the ability to adjust their behavior by directly recruiting immune cells . Moreover , by in vitro co-culture and genetic targeting of the corresponding DC-CCL receptors , we showed that DCs use this crosstalk with HF stem cells to specifically congregate around the bulge . In this case , however , recruitment of DCs and  macrophages did not trigger a new hair cycle , pointing to a major difference between disrupting the barrier function of the BMP6-expressing inner niche layer and removing this layer altogether as in hair plucking which does initiate a new hair cycle . Although our co-localization data and accumulation of Tregs with DCs around the bulge are supportive of this mechanism , our transcriptomics revealed that independently of immune cells , stem cells within a damaged niche are also well-equipped with a complex arsenal of cytokines and chemokines to communicate with both the adaptive and innate immune systems . It is curious that in homeostasis  and hair plucking  , stem cells are stimulated to proliferate and launch new hair growth , while in the face of a barrier breach , stem cells direct their efforts towards containing the damage . Although the precise nature of this complex communication between the stem cells and immune cells is beyond the scope of the current study , we have shown that it is considerably more robust and diverse than that which functions in normal hair cycling or transient injury response . Their ability to subsequently recruit distinct immune cell repertoires enables stem cells to receive new sets of instructions that deviate from their normal homeostatic state , thereby channeling their efforts in new directions . This intricate feedback mechanism enables the recruited immune cells to repurpose stem cells from their normal job of making hair to instead participate in curbing the breached barrier . Second , because the activated stem cells transcribed an array of immune signaling genes , their amplification within the niche bolstered the local production of distress signals . Since our breached HF barrier model was a genetic one , it was not surprising that the efforts of the HF stem cells to patch the barrier were futile , as evidenced by the bacterial infiltration seen in the Cdh1-null HFs and their surrounding tissue  . Indeed , there are a number of genetic disorders involving breached skin barriers in which stem cells hyper-proliferate and yet are unable to repair the barrier . In this case , the healthy epidermal stem cells respond to the barrier breach , but they maintain a single layer of proliferative progenitors , while dramatically expanding the  layers of terminally differentiating cells  . By contrast , the proliferative Cdh1 null HF stem cells cannot directly generate the terminally differentiated barrier cells  , and instead generate multiple layers of stem cells . Studies in Drosophila testis and ovary have long established a role for E-cadherin in adhering germline stem cells to their niche , a process critical to balancing stem cell self-renewal and differentiation  . Although the roles of AJs in mammalian stem cell niches have not been studied extensively , the increased HF stem cell proliferation could reflect a direct response to the reduced AJ levels that appeared to emanate from the perturbed inner bulge:stem cell interface . Thus it was surprising that immune suppression kept the ectopic proliferation of telogen HF stem cells largely in check . These findings expose an additional layer of complexity in the proliferative control of HF stem cells not seen in the invertebrate stem cell systems studied to date . Notably , as we have shown here , the stem cells displaying a hyperproliferative response can themselves be wild-type and depend upon their border with damaged niche neighbors to trigger the subsequent cascade of events we identified . Despite the critical role that the immune response plays to induce stem cell proliferation , the telogen-phase stem cells within the damaged niche still maintained in part a transcriptome reflective of cell proliferation even when the immune response was repressed . By contrast , within a damaged telogen-phase niche , the quiescence factors still remained high , and in the absence of anagen-stimulating factors , the reduction in AJs and elevation in cell cycle transcriptome were not sufficient on their own to activate these stem cells . In this way , the proliferative trigger for repurposing the stem cells became contingent upon the unleashing of immune distress signals upon the failure of their niche neighbors to provide a proper barrier . Our studies exposed a fascinating interplay between the terminally differentiated cells that provide the niche barrier , and its neighboring stem cells that fuel regenerative processes in hair cycling and wound repair . Through their ability to respond to their damaged niche , stem cells are able to alter their program of gene expression in a way that both primes the stem cells for proliferation and enables them to recruit immune cells . The strong presence of Tregs may also enable stem cell niches to limit tissue damage that might otherwise be caused by massive inflammation . Our findings suggest that through their elevated cell cycle transcriptome , the primed stem cells within the damaged niche have a reduced threshold for proliferation and therefore selectively respond to recruited immune cells , even though normal homeostatic quiescent controls are still sufficient to keep other nearby cells  in check . This selective self-renewal behavior by stem cells sustains the immune response and also reinforces the damaged barrier with layers of cells whose intercellular junctions are intact . For growth curve assays , equal numbers of Cdh1 cKO and control HF stem cells were cultured in triplicates in the absence or presence of 10 nM dexamethasone , and cell numbers were counted every other day from Days 5 to 9 . For transwell migration assay , bone marrow-derived dendritic cells  or bone marrow-derived macrophages  were obtained from femur and tibiae bone marrow of 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice and cultured in BMDC/macrophage medium  at a density of 1 × 106 cells/ml with addition of 20 ng/ml recombinant murine GM-CSF  and 10 ng/mL recombinant murine IL-4  for BMDC and 10 ng/ml recombinant murine M-CSF  for BMDM derivation . WT or Cdh1-null HF stem cells were cultured in lower chambers and incubated for 3 . Naive CD4+ T cells were isolated from the spleen of the 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice by Mojo CD4 T cell Negative Selection Kit  , followed by in vitro activation on plates coated with 10 μg/ml anti-CD3 antibody  and 2 μg/ml anti-CD28 antibody  , with or without 5 ng/ml TGF-β1  , and incubation for 5 days to obtain regulatory T cells  and conventional T cells  respectively . To measure the effects of BMDCs , Tconv and Tregs on HF stem cell proliferation , 5000 Cdh1 cKO HF stem cells were seeded onto feeder fibroblast layers in lower chambers of transwell plates . 2 days later , HF stem cells were co-cultured with 2 × 105 LPS-treated BMDCs seeded in BMDC media , or 1 × 104 Tconv or FACS-isolated Tregs seeded in T cell media in upper chambers of 0 . "
"Nodal morphogens play critical roles in embryonic axis formation in many organisms . Models proposed to generate the Nodal gradient include diffusivity , ligand processing , and a temporal activation window . But how the Nodal morphogen gradient forms in vivo remains unclear . Here , we have measured in vivo for the first time , the binding affinity of Nodal ligands to their major cell surface receptor , Acvr2b , and to the Nodal inhibitor , Lefty , by fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy . We examined the diffusion coefficient of Nodal ligands and Lefty inhibitors in live zebrafish embryos by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy . We also investigated the contribution of ligand degradation to the Nodal gradient . We show that ligand clearance via degradation shapes the Nodal gradient and correlates with its signaling range . By computational simulations of gradient formation , we demonstrate that diffusivity , extra-cellular interactions , and selective ligand destruction collectively shape the Nodal morphogen gradient . Studies in many organisms have suggested three major mechanisms to establish morphogen gradients: 1 ) diffusion , 2 ) transcytosis and 3 ) via cytonemes  . For example , the gradient of fibroblast growth factors  is established by diffusion and is regulated by extracellular heparan sulfate proteoglycans   , whereas the gradient of Drosophila Decapentaplegic  is established not only by diffusion , but also via transcytosis  and cytonemes  . Nodal proteins , which belong to the TGF-β family of signaling proteins , play critical roles in vertebrate development  . Nodal proteins are translated as precursors and function as dimers  . The Nodal precursors are cleaved by extracellular convertases , and convertase processing was found to be essential for Nodal activation in zebrafish and mouse embryonic tissues  . A recent report found that FurinA convertase activity regulates long range signaling by the zebrafish left-right patterning Nodal , Southpaw  , but not other Nodal factors  . Upon activation , Nodal proteins form complexes with type II and type I Activin receptors  , which are serine/threonine kinases  and activate the Nodal pathway  . Nodal target genes include nodal itself and lefty , which encodes a feedback inhibitor of Nodal signaling  . In zebrafish , of the three nodal homologs , cyclops  , squint  and southpaw  , sqt and cyc are expressed in an overlapping pattern in the gastrula margin where presumptive mesoderm and endoderm cells are located  . However , Sqt and Cyc elicit differential responses in target cells: Sqt acts at long-range whereas Cyc only affects cells immediately adjacent to the source of the signal  . So far , there is no evidence for a requirement for transcytosis and cytonemes in distributing the Nodal factors and the Nodal morphogen gradient has been proposed to be established by simple diffusion  . The diffusion coefficient of a molecule is a measure of its ability to move freely across a defined region . The free diffusion coefficient of the zebrafish Nodals has been suggested to be faster than their effective diffusion coefficient  , resulting in fast diffusion over short distances but slow diffusion over longer distances presumably by morphogen trapping at high affinity binding sites . These observations led to the hypothesis that Nodal diffusion is hindered either by cell surface interactions or by molecules in the extracellular matrix  . How Nodal diffusion is hindered , and to what extent it shapes the Nodal gradient is unclear . In contrast to the differential diffusion model , a recent study suggested that a temporal signal activation window created by microRNA-430  delays translation of the Nodal antagonist Lefty to determine the dimensions of Nodal signaling in the gastrula  . Repression by miRNA-430 likely plays a key role in regulation of Nodal signaling . However , miRNA-430 is not exclusive to lefty1 but also targets nodal/sqt  . Moreover , reporter protein expression and ribosome-profiling data from zebrafish embryos indicate that Nodal/Sqt and Lefty1 are translated in a similar temporal window in the early gastrula  . As such , it is unclear how the proposed temporal activation window might be converted into a spatial Nodal gradient . Some studies have suggested that in addition to diffusion , the gradient of a morphogen is related to the rate of ligand clearance or stability  , and a role for stability and clearance of Nodals in vivo has been proposed  . Previously , we reported an atypical lysosome-targeting region located in the pro-domain of Cyc , which targets this Nodal protein for destruction , and regulates target gene induction  . How the lysosome-targeting region regulates Nodal clearance and how it influences the Nodal morphogen gradient was not known . In this study , we have examined the diffusion coefficient of Nodals in live zebrafish embryos by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy  . FCS is a widely used single molecule sensitive technique that can quantitatively measure diffusion and concentrations in vivo by determining how fast particles diffuse through a fixed observation volume  . We estimated the affinity of Nodals to the type II receptor Acvr2b on the cell surface and to Lefty inhibitors in the extracellular space by single wavelength fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy  . By analyzing the correlated movement of various labeled proteins  , we determined the fraction of the proteins that were free or bound , and calculated the dissociation constants in live zebrafish embryos . We also investigated the contribution of ligand stability in forming the Nodal gradient . By analyzing diffusion and binding in vivo and from computational simulations , we show that diffusivity alone is insufficient to generate the Nodal morphogen gradient . Our findings show that in order to generate and maintain a robust Nodal morphogen gradient , ligand clearance by degradation is balanced against the binding and release of Nodal ligands with the receptor and inhibitors . To visualize Nodal ligands in vivo , we fused the enhanced green fluorescent protein  with Sqt , Cyc , SqtCyc2 and CycΔ2 . The CycΔ2mutant , which lacks a lysosomal targeting region in the Cyc pro-domain , shows significantly increased stability and signaling range over wild type Cyc protein  . SqtCyc2 chimeric protein harbors the atypical lysosome-targeting region from Cyc , and shows reduced stability and signaling range in comparison to Sqt  . We tested the activity of the fusion proteins by comparing nodal target gene induction by the various fusion proteins to that of their untagged counterparts , and found similar activity  . Activity range and diffusion of Nodal-GFP fusion proteins . Constructs used for profiling fluorescent Nodal fusion proteins in embryos . S , signal peptide; Pro , pro-domain; Mat , mature-domain; sec-EGFP , secreted EGFP . Representative images of RNA in situ hybridization showing the activity range of Sqt , Cyc and mutant Nodals . Source cells are marked in brown and blue staining indicates expression of the Nodal target ntl . Representative auto-correlation functions  and fittings  of Sqt-EGFP  and sec-EGFP  . Table showing diffusion coefficients of the Nodal and Lefty fusion proteins as measured by FCS . Individual FCS measurements and diffusion coefficient values for EGFP-tagged Nodals and Leftys compared to control secreted EGFP . Induction of ntl in embryos overexpressing Nodal or Nodal fusions . Five picogram aliquots of RNA was injected into one-cell stage wild-type embryos and ntl transcript expression was examined at 50% epiboly . Induction of gsc in embryos overexpressing Nodal or Nodal fusions . Five picogram aliquots of RNA encoding Nodal or Nodal fusions were injected into one-cell at the 128-cell stage with a lineage tracer  . To examine the diffusivity of the Nodal ligands , we determined the diffusion coefficients of Sqt- , Cyc- , Sqt Cyc2- and CycΔ2-EGFP fusion proteins in vivo using FCS . EGFP-tagged Nodal fusion proteins were expressed from a localized source and FCS measurements were acquired in the extracellular space at various distances from the source cells  . All the Nodal-GFP fusions , including Sqt , Cyc , SqtCyc2 and CycΔ2 , as well as Lefty1 and Lefty2 fusions show very similar diffusion coefficients  . These results suggest that the free diffusivity alone is unlikely to differentiate the range and activity of the Nodal proteins . Cell surface receptors of extracellular signaling molecules can bind to the diffusible ligands , and thereby reduce their distribution range . To quantitate the binding affinity of Nodal ligands to the receptors , we determined the apparent dissociation constant  of Sqt and Cyc in vivo  with the predominant Nodal receptor Acvr2b , using FCCS . To uncouple binding from signaling events within the cytoplasm , we fused the extracellular and trans-membrane domains of Acvr2b lacking the intracellular kinase domain , to a red fluorescent protein , mCherry  . Sqt-EGFP , Cyc-EGFP or control secreted eGFP  fusion proteins were expressed from a localized source in embryos that uniformly expressed Acvr2b-mCherry , and correlation curves were obtained to infer the Kd . Surprisingly , the Kd of Sqt-Acvr2b is 65 ± 7 nM and the Kd of Cyc-Acvr2b is 124 ± 12 nM  . This result suggests Sqt binds with Acvr2b with an approximately twofold higher affinity compared to Cyc . Sqt has higher affinity to the Acvr2b receptors than Cyc . Sqt-/Cyc-/sec-EGFP and Acvr2b-mCherry constructs . Sqt signal peptides and pro-domain were used in sec-EGFP constructs . Representative image of an injected embryo at 30% epiboly stage showing the expression patterns of the fusion proteins . X axis , concentration of bound protein ( Cgr  ) ; Y axis , products of concentrations of free proteins ( Cg x Cr  ) . 006 The Nodal antagonist Lefty prevents Nodal proteins from binding to their receptors and has the potential to influence the distribution of Nodal ligands . To test if binding to the inhibitor affects Nodal ligand distribution , we determined the affinity of Sqt and Cyc to Lefty2 in vivo by co-expressing Lefty-mCherry with Sqt-EGFP or Cyc-EGFP from a localized source and measuring the Kdin the extracellular space of embryonic blastula cells at various distances from the source  . The Kd of Sqt-Lefty2 is 29 ± 1 . 2 nM and Cyc-Lefty2 Kd is 50 ± 3 nM  , indicating an approximately twofold higher affinity of Sqt-Lefty2 binding in comparison to Cyc-Lefty2 binding . The differential affinity of the Nodals for Lefty could fine-tune their activity range by removing freely diffusing Nodals from the signaling pool . FCCS measurements reveal that Lefty has higher affinity to Sqt compared to Cyc . Confocal image of an injected embryo at 30% epiboly showing the expression patterns of the fusion proteins . X axis , concentration of bound protein ( Cgr  ) ; Y axis , products of concentrations of free proteins ( Cg x Cr  ) . 007 To visualize Nodal gradients in zebrafish embryos , we expressed Sqt , Cyc , SqtCyc2 and CycΔ2-EGFP fusion proteins from a localized source  . , Sqt-EGFP was found to reach the edges of the blastula with no more than 50–60% loss in intensity , whereas the intensity of Cyc-EGFP fusion protein falls steeply from the source  . Interestingly , the gradient of the deletion mutant , CycΔ2-EGFP , which has a longer signaling range than Cyc-EGFP , was significantly shallower than that of Cyc , and the gradient of the SqtCyc2-EGFP chimera  was steeper than that of Sqt-EGFP  . The distribution of Nodal proteins correlates with clearance . Representative western blots of Nodal proteins harvested from HEK293T cell culture medium at different time points after removal of the source . The Nodal proteins were immuno-precipitated with anti-FLAG antibody and detected by western blot with the same antibody . The profile of Nodal protein levels over time after source removal . Each experiment was repeated three times , and the band intensity of the Nodal or Lefty proteins was normalized to GFP  and to time 0 hr . 010 To determine the relative stability of Sqt , Cyc , CycΔ2 and SqtCyc2 , we expressed FLAG-tagged versions of the proteins in HEK293T cells and examined the amount of secreted protein in the supernatant after various periods  . The decay rate of these proteins shows a trend consistent with their gradient profile and their signaling range  . These results indicate a strong correlation between Nodal ligand stability and the gradient . To test the validity of our measurements , we performed simulations to model the Nodal gradient . Modeling of the Nodal morphogen gradient requires a range of different parameters , of which some have been measured in vivo and are available , and we have in this study determined binding affinities , and inferred concentrations  . We found the dissociation constants , KD , of Sqt and Cyc to their major cell surface receptor Acvr2 , to be ~60 and 120 nM , respectively . In addition , we determined the diffusion coefficients of the Nodals to be ~60 μm2/s . From the amplitude of our FCS measurements , we estimated the concentration of the Nodal factors to be on the order of 102 nM . We determined that the degradation rate for Cyc is higher than that for Sqt , confirming previous work  . 0005/s for Sqt and Cyc , respectively , documented in or estimated from previous reports  . Importantly , the production rate itself does not change the gradient shape and only the gradient amplitude is altered . Therefore , the gradient shape is determined by the degradation rate and diffusion . 09This work First , we determined how the fact that particles have to transverse longer paths around obstacles  during diffusion , renders diffusion apparently slower , and influences the effective diffusion coefficient  . In agreement with this , we determined that for cells with 10 μm diameter and cell membrane-to cell membrane distance of 2 μm , we obtain a reduction of diffusion by a factor 1 . Simulations of morphogen diffusion . Free diffusion with a diffusion coefficient D = 60 μm2/s . Diffusion in the presence of cells . Diffusion in the presence of cells and binding with an average number of free particles of 0 . Simulations were done in a 3D space as described in the text and the diffusion coefficient was D = 60 μm2/s . The concentration curves were fit with a bell curve that describes the diffusion of particles from the source . For free diffusion  we recover a diffusion coefficient of D = 63 . 4 μm2/s close to the input value , and in the presence of cells  this reduces to an effective diffusion coefficient of Deff = 33 . Simulations of diffusion in the presence of cells , and with different amounts of binding . The simulated diffusion coefficient was D = 60 μm2/s . The recovered effective diffusion coefficients for a fraction of free particles of 0 . 042 μm2/s , respectively , demonstrating the effect of binding on the effective diffusion coefficient . Gradient formation using the effective diffusion coefficients determined from graph E and degradation rates of 0 . The blue curve represents Cyc , the red curve Sqt . Although Sqt has higher binding affinity and consequently a lower free mobile fraction , its lower degradation rate ensures that Sqt has a less steep gradient . The data was fit with an exponential function yielding gradients of 19 μm for Cyc and and 30 μm for Sqt , respectively . 014 Secondly , we determined how binding affects the effective diffusion coefficient  . For quantitative analysis , we simulated particles whose diffusion coefficient was recued from 60 to 30 μm2/s due to tortuosity and assumed that a fraction of the particles is bound to binding sites that are homogeneously distributed . The effective diffusion coefficient is reduced more for higher affinities , i . For instance , when 90 or 99% of particles are bound , morphogen diffusion is reduced by a factor 10 or 100 , respectively . The actual amount of bound ligand depends on the total concentration of ligand  , receptor  and the KD:  fbound=Kd+Lt+Rt2Lt−  24Lt2−RtLt Thirdly , for the simulations we assume that Sqt and Cyc share the receptors , and a ligand concentration of 100 nM is used for both Nodal ligands . The differences in the gradient length are therefore , a result of diffusion , differential binding of Sqt and Cyc , as well as different degradation rates . 015 Next , we determined the effective diffusion coefficient that results in a Sqt gradient length consistent with our measured values of about 30 μm . The gradient length is described by a model previously used for Fgf8 diffusion in zebrafish embryos  :  λ=D/kR/Kd+1 where λ is the gradient length , D is the free diffusion coefficient , k is the clearance rate which is assumed constant , R is the concentration of the receptor , and Kd is the equilibrium dissociation constant , respectively  . Using a gradient length of about 30 μm and the other values as given in Table 1 , we estimate the effective diffusion coefficient to be on the order of 0 . With a Kd of 60 nM for Sqt and an Lt of 100 nM , this requires a bound fraction fbound of 99 . The estimation of the receptor number of 40 μM is based on the value of Deff required to establish the gradient of appropriate dimensions for Sqt . Any corrections in binding affinities for the receptor or different affinities for additional binding sites would alter the required concentration . At this receptor concentration , Cyc , with a Kd of 120 nM will have a bound fraction of 99 . 7% and an effective diffusion coefficient of 0 . Finally , we used these effective diffusion coefficients and the degradation rates of 0 . 0005/s for Sqt and Cyc , respectively , to simulate gradient formation  . Using these parameters , Sqt produced a gradient of ~30 μm length and Cyc gradient was ~19 μm  . In our study , we found that the diffusion coefficients of free Nodal and Lefty proteins measured by FCS are very similar  , consistent with their similar apparent molecular weight and with previous reports  . The diffusion coefficient values determined by FCS are ~3 to 85 times higher than the effective diffusion coefficients reported using FRAP   . FCS and FRAP produce different readouts because they measure diffusion in different contexts , time windows and scales . FCS determines diffusion within a small volume  and on a short timescale  , whereas FRAP measures net diffusion over a large area  over a longer time period  . FCS has been very useful to determine local diffusion , to infer the concentration of molecules within a defined confocal volume , and to determine the affinity of molecular interactions within the defined confocal volume . The diffusion coefficients determined by the two techniques are known to vary dramatically . For example , in Drosophila imaginal discs , the measured diffusion coefficient of Dpp-GFP is 10 ± 1 µm2/s from FCS measurements  , and 0 . Taken together , these findings strongly suggest there must be other molecules and mechanisms in the embryo that refine and shape the Nodal morphogen gradient . The diffusional movement of morphogens can also be altered by transient binding to other molecules such as receptors or to components of the extracellular matrix  , so that one possible mechanism to shape the gradient is transient binding of Nodal proteins to immobilized diffusion regulators , as found for the fibroblast growth factor Fgf8  . To explain the long range distribution of Sqt compared to Cyc , it was also proposed that Sqt might have a lower binding affinity to its receptors ,  . However , we find that Sqt in fact binds in vivo to Acvr2b with a higher affinity than the short-range Nodal , Cyc . Sqt also binds to Lefty with higher affinity , raising the possibility that Lefty-binding might alter Sqt activity . Another potential mechanism for gradient formation is rapid clearance of molecules during diffusion , as observed for Dpp in Drosophila  . Previous studies have suggested that the Nodal gradient might be influenced by its stability: Le Good et al . showed that increasing the stability of mouse Nodal protein increases its range of activity  ; Tian et al . found a lysozyme targeting signal in Cyc that accelerates its degradation and reduces the signaling activity of chimeric SqtCyc2 protein  ; Jing et al . determined the half-life of Sqt and Cyc to be ~8 hr  and ~2 hr  , respectively , which somewhat correlates with the difference in target induction by the two proteins  . However , the difference in clearance rates of Sqt , Cyc , Lefty1 and Lefty2 determined by photo-conversion assays is not pronounced enough to explain their very different decay lengths  . found that their fluorescent Cyc fusion protein was expressed at very low levels in the extracellular matrix , but exhibited an unusual punctate distribution close to the plasma membrane and in the cytosol , whereas their Sqt fusion showed a strong , uniform and mainly intracellular distribution . The punctate distribution of Cyc suggests that Cyc might undergo a much faster and/or sustained endocytosis process compared to Sqt . This supports our finding that cells selectively destroy Nodal ligands by recognizing the lysosome-targeting signal , since the ligands have to be internalized . Simulations of the Nodal gradient show that Sqt generates a gradient of 30 μm and Cyc 19 . 7 ± 2 μm for Cyc  , as well as the estimated signaling range of these proteins  . In the simulations , 80% and 95% of steady state levels for Cyc is achieved at 0 . By the same predictions , Sqt reaches the 80% and 95% levels at ~4 hr and 7 hr , respectively , which is longer than expected . However , these simulations have not taken into consideration cell divisions or binding to other factors that could influence the gradient . Despite some differences in absolute values , the overall agreement between our experimental results , theory , and simulation supports our conclusion that the Nodal gradient is dependent upon diffusion , binding , and degradation of the morphogen . In particular , we found that Lefty binds the Nodals with high affinity . This may not influence gradient formation as the Sqt/Lefty and Cyc/Lefty complexes likely diffuse very similarly to Sqt and Cyc given that their size difference is within a factor of two . However , Lefty will influence Sqt and Cyc signaling when in complex , even if this is not directly evident in the gradient of fluorescent molecules . We also have not considered how the Nodal co-receptor  influences gradient formation . It will be interesting to determine how Oep/Cripto co-receptors and Lefty shape the active signaling gradient . The extracellular matrix  has been shown to play a key role in regulating diffusion of FGFs , presumably via interactions with heparan sulphate proteoglycans   . It is not known if the ECM or HSPGs play a role in modulating the Nodal morphogen gradient although sulfated proteoglycans have been proposed to provide directional cues for left-asymmetric Nodal in Xenopus  . In conclusion , we find that in addition to hindered diffusion via binding to the receptors and inhibitors , the differential stability of Nodal ligands play key roles in shaping the Nodal gradient and activity range . Our experimental findings together with theoretical and computational simulations show that diffusion , extracellular interactions i . , Nodal-receptor binding , Nodal-Lefty inhibitor binding , and selective ligand destruction collectively shape and refine the Nodal morphogen gradient . For Cyc and CycΔ2 fusions , EGFP or 3xFLAG  tag was inserted 4 amino acids after the cleavage site  . For Sqt and SqtCyc2 fusions , EGFP or 3xFLAG tag was inserted 1 amino acid after the cleavage site  . For Lefty1 and Lefty2 fusions , EGFP or 3xFLAG tag was fused to the C-terminus of the protein as previously described  . For generating the sec-EGFP construct , the EGFP tag was fused to the C-terminus of 4 amino acids after the cleavage site  of Sqt . For sec-EGFP-3xFLAG construct , 3xFLAG tag was fused to the C-terminus of Sec-EGFP  . To test overall inductivity of the various Nodal fusions , 5 ng of the RNA was mixed with 0 . To test the signaling range of the Nodal fusions , single cells of de-chorionated 128-cell stage embryos were injected with 2 . To generate clones of cells expressing Nodal or Lefty , Sqt , Cyc , Lefty1 or Lefty2 -EGFP RNA  was injected into single cells of 32–128-cell stage embryos . To determine the dissociation constant of Nodal and Acvr2b , 50 pg RNA encoding Acvr2b-mCherry was injected into 1-cell stage embryos prior to clone generation . To determine the clearance rate of the proteins , the remaining supernatant was diluted to the same concentration as supernatants from non-transfected cells , mixed with sec-EGFP-3xFLAG supernatant for input control , added to dishes with non-transfected cells and collected at different time points . We obtained the correlation curve of the various fusion proteins by focusing the detection volume on the cell membrane at various distances from the source  . We co-expressed Lefty-mCherry with Sqt-EGFP or Cyc-EGFP from a localized source and measured the Kd in the extracellular space of blastula cells at various distances from the source . In FCS , a one-component 3D diffusion model with triplet state was used for free diffusing molecules:  G3D , 1C , 1trip  =1N  −1−1/2+G∞ , where N is the number of particles in the confocal volume; Ftrip is the fraction of the particles that have entered the triplet state; τtrip is the triplet state relaxation time; τd is the average time required for one particle to diffuse through the confocal volume , ω0 and z0 are the radial and axial distances where the excitation intensity reaches 1/e2 of its value from the center of the confocal volume; and G∞ is the convergence value of the ACF for long times . In FCCS , a one-component 2D diffusion model and a two-component 3D model were used for the membrane anchored receptors and Nodal ligands , respectively:  G2D , 1C , 1trip  =1N  −1+G∞  G3D , 2C , 1trip  =1N+G∞ where τdi and Fi are the diffusion time and the amplitude of the ith component . The procedure of calibration and quantification of diffusion coefficient and dissociation constants were as previously described  . EGFP fusion proteins were excited with a 488 nm laser beam and the emitted fluorescence was collected through a 10X objective lens  and a long-pass 505 emission filter with a 2 . Fits were performed with an exponential decay:  C  =A∗exp+C where A is the amplitude of the gradient , λ is the gradient decay length and C is a possible offset . Initial simulations to determine effective diffusion coefficients in the presence of cells as obstacles  and morphogen binding were conducted in 3D . We used a diffusion coefficient of D = 60 μm2/s , and created 1000 particles at the left border of the simulation volume . Under these circumstances , ligand diffusion was reduced by a factor of 1 . who reported tortuosity to reduce diffusion maximally by a factor of 2  . Therefore , for further modeling we assumed the effective diffusion coefficient of the Nodals to be ~30 μm2/s . All concentration profiles were normalized and fitted by the following equation to determine the effective diffusion coefficient:  C  =exp Here C  is the concentration profile , x is the coordinate along which the particle diffusion is observed , t is the time at which the profile is measured  , and Deff is the effective diffusion coefficient . Final simulations , including continuing particle production and degradation , used the values given in Table 1 and were run in 1D with an extent of 200 μm , assuming a reduced diffusion coefficient of 30 μm2/s due to tortuosity , and an average number of particles bound as determined by Equation 1 . The normalized concentration gradients C  were fitted with a simple exponential function to determine the gradient length λ . "
"CHC22 clathrin plays a key role in intracellular membrane traffic of the insulin-responsive glucose transporter GLUT4 in humans . We performed population genetic and phylogenetic analyses of the CHC22-encoding CLTCL1 gene , revealing independent gene loss in at least two vertebrate lineages , after arising from gene duplication . All vertebrates retained the paralogous CLTC gene encoding CHC17 clathrin , which mediates endocytosis . For vertebrates retaining CLTCL1 , strong evidence for purifying selection supports CHC22 functionality . All human populations maintained two high frequency CLTCL1 allelic variants , encoding either methionine or valine at position 1316 . Functional studies indicated that CHC22-V1316 , which is more frequent in farming populations than in hunter-gatherers , has different cellular dynamics than M1316-CHC22 and is less effective at controlling GLUT4 membrane traffic , altering its insulin-regulated response . These analyses suggest that ancestral human dietary change influenced selection of allotypes that affect CHC22’s role in metabolism and have potential to differentially influence the human insulin response . Humans have two genes  that respectively encode CHC17 and CHC22 clathrins  . CHC17 clathrin , which has three bound clathrin light chain  subunits , is expressed uniformly in all tissues and forms CCVs that control receptor-mediated endocytosis , as well as lysosome biogenesis and maturation of regulated secretory granules . In humans CHC22 clathrin is most highly expressed in muscle and adipose tissue and forms separate CCVs that are not involved in endocytosis  . In these tissues , CHC22 CCVs regulate targeting of the glucose transporter 4  to an intracellular compartment where it is sequestered until released to the cell surface in response to insulin  . In addition to its distinct tissue expression pattern and biological function , CHC22 does not bind the CLC subunits that associate with CHC17 clathrin , even though the CHC protein sequences are 85% identical  . Notably , however , the CLTCL1 gene encoding CHC22 evolved into a pseudogene in the Mus genus , although mice maintain an insulin-responsive GLUT4 pathway for clearing blood glucose . This observation suggests that , despite the importance of the CLTCL1 gene product , backup pathways have evolved to compensate for loss of the CHC22 protein . To understand the evolution of the specialized function of CHC22 , and the potential selective processes involved , we here explore the phylogenetic history of the CLTCL1 gene in vertebrates and its population genetics in humans , non-human primates and bears . Our earlier study of available annotated genomes in 2005 suggested that the gene duplication giving rise to the two CHC-encoding genes occurred as a result of one of the whole genome duplications contributing to vertebrate evolution  . We establish that the loss of CLTCL1 in the Mus genus is not unique in vertebrates , identifying at least one additional independent gene loss event in the clade of Cetartiodactyla affecting pigs , cows , sheep , porpoise , and possibly additional related species . Nonetheless , there is strong evidence for CHC22 sequence conservation amongst those species that retain CLTCL1  . This evolutionarily recent gene loss in some lineages and retention of the functional form in others suggested that CLTCL1 may still be under purifying selection , so we examined CLTCL1 variation between individuals within vertebrate populations . Comparing populations , we found CLTCL1 to be considerably more polymorphic than CLTC , which encodes the clathrin found in all eukaryotes , with evidence for strong ancient purifying selection for CHC17 clathrin function and relaxed purifying selection on CHC22 function . Additionally , we identified two common allotypes of human CHC22 , which have different functional properties . We previously observed that CHC22 accumulates at sites of GLUT4 retention in the muscle of insulin-resistant patients with type two diabetes  in addition to its active role in membrane traffic of GLUT4 . Thus , CHC22 variation has potential to differentially affect membrane traffic pathways involved in insulin resistance , as well as alter normal glucose metabolism within human and other vertebrate populations . The analyses reported here lead us to propose that variation in the CHC22 clathrin coat may be a response to changing nutritional pressures both between and within vertebrate species . Identification of CHC-encoding genes in 62 vertebrate and non-vertebrate species (  indicates a dynamic history of gene duplications and losses  . The CLTCL1 gene was detected only in jawed vertebrates  , while the two jawless vertebrate genomes available – lamprey  and hagfish  – have only one CHC-encoding gene . This distribution refines the timing of the CHC-encoding gene duplication to the period after the Agnatha split off the vertebrate lineage , estimated at 493 . Of the ten species of bony fish that split off the spotted gar  lineage  , whose genomes are generally tetraploid , all had two versions of CLTC and at least one CLTCL1 gene , except for cave fish  apparently lacking CLTCL1 . Eight additional species of vertebrates with high genome coverage and reliable annotation had the CLTC gene but no identifiable CLTCL1 gene . The Cetartiodactyla clade also appears to have lost CLTCL1 , as CLTCL1 is absent from the four representative genomes in our dataset ( pig  , sheep  , cow  , Yangtze finless porpoise  ) . The absence of CLTCL1 in rat clarifies why CHC22 could not be biochemically identified in rat and indicates that antibodies against CHC22 that react with rat cells must cross-react with other proteins  . Assuming the genome annotations for the species analyzed are reliable , these data indicate that there have been at least five independent losses of CLTCL1 that are clade- or species-specific . The intermittent loss of CLTCL1 and the retention of CLTC raises the question of whether their patterns of evolution are typical for genes with related functions that duplicated in the same time frame as CLTC/CLTCL1 . Also , CLC subunits of CHC17 clathrin are encoded by paralogous genes on different chromosomes  that arose from a local gene duplication , mapped to the same time frame as the CHC-encoding duplication  . Comparison of the distribution of dN/dS ratios for the three pairs revealed stronger purifying selection on the CLTC/CLTCL1 genes than on MTMR4/MTMR3 and CLTA/CLTB  , suggesting the CHC-encoding clade is more evolutionarily constrained . This observation is consistent with our previous identification of conserved signature residues in CLTCL1 using DIVERGE analysis  and indicates conserved functions for both the CLTC and CLTCL1 gene products . Furthermore , there is a striking difference in the distribution and average of evolutionary rates , as measured by dN/dS , between CLTC and CLTCL1  , with CLTC being significantly more constrained by purifying selection than CLTCL1 . To follow up the indication that CLTC and CLTCL1 are subject to different degrees of purifying selection , we investigated their variation in human populations . We analyzed 2504 genomes from the 1000 Genomes Project database , phase 3  and identified alleles resulting from non-synonymous substitutions for CLTC and CLTCL1 . Each allele encodes a variant of a CHC  , which includes one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms  . A median-joining network for the most common CLTCL1 alleles showed that they are widely distributed within the human meta-populations  . The equivalent residue in human CHC17  is also methionine , suggesting that methionine at this position likely pre-dated the initial duplication generating CLTCL1 . For the non-human species analyzed  , all CHC-encoding genes present would produce clathrins with M1316 , further indicating its ancient and conserved role in CHC structure or function . To assess whether observed summary statistics are expected or not under neutral evolution in each population , we calculated the empirical null distribution from a set of 500 control genes with the same coding length as CLTCL1  . High or low percentile rank values for CLTCL1 in the empirical distribution indicate that the summary statistic for CLTCL1 is unlikely to occur by mutation and neutral genetic drift alone . All populations tend to display high genetic diversity for CLTCL1 , as summarized by PI and TW , and an unusually high frequency for the second most common allele , as summarized by H2 and H2H1 . That CLTCL1 was low ranking in all populations for H1 , a statistic representing the frequency of the most common allele , also supported diversifying selection rather than hard sweeps . One plausible explanation of the high genetic diversity and frequency of the two major alleles of CLTCL1 that occur in all modern human populations  is balancing selection  . Selective pressures that might be acting on CLTCL1 , irrespective of population distribution , could be changes in human diet , a number of which have been inferred over the last 2 . As CHC22 clathrin , the gene product of CLTCL1 , is required for formation of the intracellular pathway critical for an insulin response , its genetic history could potentially be influenced by these changes . To address the hypothesis that nutritional habits conferred selective pressure on CLTCL1 , we compared the frequency of SNP rs1061325  in farming versus hunter-gatherer population samples from ancient and modern humans . Although the appearance of SNP rs1061325 predates the advent of farming  , the observed frequencies of this allele , which encodes the CHC22-V1316 allotype , are consistent with a tendency for it to increase once farming became common practice for a population  , although the small sample size for modern humans limits the power to reach statistical significance . We analyzed allelic variation for CLTC and CLTCL1 in the genomes of 79 individuals representing six species of great ape , two species each for chimpanzees , gorillas and orangutans  . After data filtering and haplotype phasing , we found no non-synonymous SNPs for CLTC and 64 putative non-synonymous SNPs for CLTCL1  . Notably , for all the non-human primates analyzed , CLTCL1 variants do not encode the V1316 allotype , which appears private to humans . To further investigate variation in non-human primates , we increased the sample size per species by analyzing CLTC and CLTCL1 variation in 70 chimpanzee and bonobo genomes , including four subspecies of chimpanzee . While no variation was observed for CLTC  , a median-joining network for the inferred 8 CLTCL1 alleles  showed a major allele common to different species and subspecies with less frequent alleles primarily restricted to individual ones  . Genetic differentiation between polar and brown bears , as measured by FST , is markedly higher for CLTCL1  than for CLTC   . Furthermore , a phylogenetic tree of both bear species in our sample exhibits more diversification for CLTCL1 compared to CLTC  . This sample of bear populations may support the emergence of multiple CLTCL1 variants within a species and a potential role for diet-related selection . One expectation for selection of the human-specific CLTCL1 allele encoding the CHC22-V1316 allotype is that this amino acid change might confer a functional change in the clathrin lattice . To address the possibility that the M1316V polymorphism affects protein function , we used MODELLER  to produce a homology model of the two CHC22 allotypes based on the crystal structure of CHC17 clathrin   , taking advantage of the 85% protein sequence identity between human CHC17 and CHC22  . Mixed lattices of the two CHC22 allotypes would therefore have different properties from CHC22 coats formed in homozygotes for the two major CLTCL1 alleles . CHC22 is needed for the traffic of GLUT4 to its intracellular storage compartment , where GLUT4 awaits release to the plasma membrane in response to insulin . However , CHC22 also accumulates at the GLUT4 storage compartment  when it expands due to impaired GLUT4 release in cases of insulin-resistant type two diabetes   . Thus , genetic variation of CHC22 could alter rates of retention and release of GLUT4 in both healthy and disease states . To test whether the evolutionary change from M1316 to V1316 in CHC22 clathrin alters its properties , three aspects of CHC22 biochemistry and function were compared for the two allotypes . HeLa cells were transfected with constructs encoding each CHC22 variant or CHC17 , tagged with green fluorescent protein  . Atypically for their epithelial cell origin but not for transformed cells , HeLa cells express CHC22 clathrin   . We observed that the transfected fluorescently tagged CHC22 allotypes were both concentrated in the perinuclear region of the cell , similar to endogenous CHC22-M1316 detected by antibody , and did not overlap with endogenous CHC17  . Conversely , transfected GFP-CHC17 did not overlap with endogenous CHC22 , so expression of the transfected CHCs reflected their natural distribution  . Using these constructs , the dynamics of membrane association for the two allotypes of CHC22 and for CHC17 was assessed by Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching  . Recovery of CHC17 fluorescence was the fastest , consistent with its more soluble properties compared to CHC22  . CHC22-M1316 showed the slowest recovery and CHC22-V1316 was intermediate  , suggesting that it is more exchangeable in the CHC22 coat than the M1316 allotype . The impact of CHC22 variation on GLUT4 retention was then assessed . Because HeLa cells express CHC22 , they can form a GSC , when transfected to express GLUT4 . Transfection of HeLa cells with siRNA depleting CHC22 ablates this insulin-responsive pathway   . We then assessed if siRNA inhibition of insulin-responsive GLUT4 release can be rescued by expression of CHC22-M1316-GFP or CHC22-V1316-GFP . We observed that , when endogenous CHC22 was depleted , CHC22-M1316 was able to restore the insulin response but CHC22-V1316 was not , when the rescue constructs were expressed at the same levels in cells   . CHC17 expression also did not rescue insulin-induced GLUT4 expression , as shown previously  . However , CHC22-V1316 is functional for trapping GLUT4 intracellularly because CHC22-transgenic mice that express CHC22-V1316 in muscle , using the natural human promoter , show excessive GLUT4 sequestration in muscle compared to wild-type mice without CHC22 , leading to higher blood glucose in the transgenic animals  . To analyze GLUT4 sequestration in another way , cells depleted for CHC22 and then transfected with mCherry-GLUT4 plus either CHC22 allotype or CHC17 were each divided into three populations expressing equivalently low , medium and high levels of the transfected CHC-GFP . We observed higher levels of GLUT4 in CHC22-depleted cells expressing CHC22-M1316-GFP , compared to cells expressing either CHC22-V1316-GFP or CHC17-GFP at both medium and high levels of CHC expression  . This suggests that GLUT4 is sequestered more effectively from degradative membrane traffic pathways when trafficked by CHC22-M1316 than by CHC22-V1316 , indicating that the M1316 variant is more efficient at targeting GLUT4 to the GSC . For these cells , the less effective CHC22-V1316 is inadequate to restore GSC formation when their endogenous CHC22-M1316 is depleted . Use of this HeLa model was necessitated by the lack of natural models for the CHC22-dependent GLUT4 pathway in myoblasts and adipocytes , as well as a lack of antibodies that detect surface GLUT4 . Nonetheless , these experiments demonstrate a functional difference between CHC22-M1316 and CHC22-V1316 and suggest that CHC22-V1316 is less efficient at GLUT4 sequestration . We studied the phylogenetics and population genetics of CHC22 clathrin to understand the functional variation of this protein in relation to its evolutionary history . CHC22 clathrin is a key player in post-prandial blood glucose clearance in humans through its role in intracellular packaging of the GLUT4 glucose transporter in muscle and fat , the tissues in which CHC22 and GLUT4 are expressed  . The CHC22 pathway positions GLUT4 for cell surface release in response to insulin and consequent uptake of glucose into these tissues  . The CLTCL1 gene encoding CHC22 resulted from gene duplication that we have now dated to 494–451 MYA , early in vertebrate evolution when jawed vertebrates emerged . All vertebrate and non-vertebrate eukaryotes considered here have retained the parent CLTC gene encoding CHC17 clathrin , which mediates endocytosis and other housekeeping membrane traffic pathways . Compared to CLTC , extensive allelic diversity was observed for CLTCL1 in all species for which populations were analyzed , including humans , chimpanzees and bears . In all human populations , two allelic variants of CLTCL1 are present in high frequency , differing only at one nucleotide , resulting in CHC22 protein with either methionine or valine at position 1316 . Analysis of ancient humans dated the appearance of the V1316 variant to 500–50 KYA and indicated that M1316 , which is fixed in CHC17 clathrin , is the ancestral state . Analyses of human population genetic data provided support for the maintenance of high genetic diversity and two allotypes of CHC22 . We hypothesize that selective pressure on CHC22 clathrin comes from its role in nutrient metabolism . Consistent with this hypothesis , we observed functional differences between the two CHC22 allotypes in their capacity to control GLUT4 membrane traffic , as predicted by structural modeling and differences in cellular dynamics of the two allotypes . Retention of CLTC in all vertebrate species is consistent with the encoded CHC17 mediating cellular housekeeping clathrin functions shared by all eukaryotes . On the other hand , CHC22 , encoded by the paralogous gene CLTCL1 , operates in the specialized insulin-responsive GLUT4 pathway to make the pathway more efficient in those species that retained CLTCL1 . Data presented here  and our recent mapping of a novel intracellular location for CHC22 function  indicate that , in human cells , CHC22 clathrin promotes transport from the secretory pathway to the insulin-responsive GSC . This CHC22 pathway complements the endocytic pathway for GLUT4 targeting to the GSC , so species without CHC22 can rely primarily on endocytosis for GLUT4 trafficking to the GSC , while species with CHC22 use both pathways . Thus , we hypothesize that species with functional CHC22 clathrin are more efficient at intracellular GLUT4 sequestration , resulting in lower surface GLUT4 in the absence of insulin , and tighter regulation of GLUT4 release in response to insulin . The two main vertebrate branches that have lost CHC22 comprise the Muridae  who are incessant herbivores and the Cetartiodactyla  which include the ruminants  whose muscle uptake of glucose is critical for muscle function , but is not a main pathway for glucose clearance  . These two groups of species require greater availability of GLUT4 on their cell surfaces , so that more efficient GLUT4 sequestration by CHC22 would not be favorable to their nutritional needs . The fact that CHC22 alters the balance of membrane traffic to the GSC means that species losing CLTCL1 could evolve compensatory pathways more compatible with their diets . Thus , transgenic mice expressing CHC22 over-sequester GLUT4 in their muscle and develop hyperglycemia with aging  . The cave fish , which appears to lack CLTCL1 , has independently evolved mutations in the insulin receptor , creating natural insulin resistance , such that the presence of CHC22 on top of this mechanism might be detrimental  . The loss of CLTCL1 from cave fish is consistent with the insulin responsive GLUT4 pathway being a target for natural selection driven by diet , which might also explain CLTCL1 variation or loss for additional vertebrate species during vertebrate evolution . The allelic variation reported here for CLTCL1 in human and bear populations further supports the hypothesis that CLTCL1 has undergone continued selection during vertebrate evolution in relation to diet . While purifying selection appears to be operating on CLTCL1 in those species that retain it , CLTCL1 is far more variable than CLTC in these species . The fact that the two major human CLTCL1 alleles are functionally distinct is consistent with diversifying selection operating on CLTCL1 , with a balancing selection possibly caused by heterozygote advantage . Also notable is that polar bears , who have a very low carbohydrate diet compared to their brown bear relatives , have distinct CHC22 variants with unknown functionality , again consistent with CLTCL1 undergoing selection driven by nutritional ecology . Our structural modeling predicts that the single amino acid difference between the two main human CHC22 allotypes could influence the strength of molecular interactions in the CHC22 clathrin lattice , as position 1316 occurs at a lattice assembly interface  . When expressed in cells , both CHC22 variants gave the same overall intracellular distribution , but CHC22-V1316 shows faster turnover from membranes than CHC22-M1316  and is less effective at GLUT4 sequestration  . This interpretation is further supported by a GLUT4 translocation assay , which indicates that the V1316 variant is less effective in forming the insulin-responsive GSC than the ancestral M1316 form of CHC22  . It is also possible that some forms of polar bear CHC22 are super-active at GLUT4 sequestration , providing a route to maintain high blood glucose , as occurs through other mutations in the cave fish  . The evolutionary history of CLTCL1 , following vertebrate-specific gene duplication , suggests that differentiation of nutritional habits has shaped selection for the presence and absence of CLTCL1 in some vertebrate species , and its diversification in humans and potentially other species . Though its highest expression is in muscle and adipose tissue , transient expression of CHC22 during human brain development has also been documented  . Attenuated CHC22 function of the V1316 variant might lead to a spectrum of pain sensing in humans but this is unlikely to be a strong selective force affecting reproductive success , whereas glucose homeostasis , as suggested by our analysis , is more likely . By exerting efficient control of blood glucose levels , the presence of CHC22 clathrin was likely beneficial in providing the nutrition required to develop the large human brain , as well as affecting reproduction by influencing glucose availability during pregnancy  . However , over the last 12 , 500 years in association with farming , or perhaps over the last 450 , 000 years in association with cooking , salivary amylase activity and starch digestion  , readily available carbohydrate has increased our need to clear glucose from the blood , such that selection continues to act on CLTCL1 in humans . Our cell biology studies have also demonstrated that CHC22 increases GLUT4 retention . While we would not expect the major CLTCL1 polymorphism to directly influence the development of T2D , CHC22 accumulates on the expanded GSC that forms in cases of insulin-resistant T2D  , so its variation could potentially exacerbate insulin resistance to different degrees . All potential orthologs for the human isoforms of CLTC/CLTCL1 , MTMR4/MTMR3 , and CLTA/CLTB , in the above genomes were retrieved via BLAST  . The polar bear   , brown bear   and black bear  CHC17 and CHC22 protein sequences were manually added . To compute evolutionary rates , the sequences and subtrees corresponding to CLTC and CLTCL1 clades after duplication  were extracted and sequences from species without either CLTC or CLTCL1 were removed . To assess whether the observed summary statistics are expected under neutral evolution , genes with a coding length approximately equal  to the one observed for the tested gene , CLTCL1 , were selected . 13  was used to model the structure of the proximal leg segment of CHC22 , using the crystal structure of bovine CHC17   as a template . "
"Over 500 genetic loci have been associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases  ; however , most loci are located in gene-distal non-coding regions and their target genes are not known . Here , we generated high-resolution promoter capture Hi-C  maps in human induced pluripotent stem cells  and iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes  to provide a resource for identifying and prioritizing the functional targets of CVD associations . We validate these maps by demonstrating that promoters preferentially contact distal sequences enriched for tissue-specific transcription factor motifs and are enriched for chromatin marks that correlate with dynamic changes in gene expression . Using the CM PCHi-C map , we linked 1999 CVD-associated SNPs to 347 target genes . Remarkably , more than 90% of SNP-target gene interactions did not involve the nearest gene , while 40% of SNPs interacted with at least two genes , demonstrating the importance of considering long-range chromatin interactions when interpreting functional targets of disease loci . Most genome-wide association studies  implicate non-coding variants that are far from genes , complicating interpretation of their mode of action and correct identification of the target gene  . Mounting evidence suggests that disease variants disrupt the function of cis-acting regulatory elements , such as enhancers , which in turn affects expression of the specific gene or genes that are functional targets of these elements  . Chromosome conformation capture techniques such as Hi-C  enable the genome-wide mapping of long-range chromatin contacts and therefore represent a promising strategy to identify distal gene targets of disease-associated genetic variants . However , despite the increasing abundance of Hi-C maps , most datasets are of limited resolution  and do not precisely identify the genomic regions in contact with gene promoters . More recently , promoter capture Hi-C  was developed which greatly increases the power to detect interactions involving promoter sequences  . PCHi-C in different cell types identified thousands of enhancer-promoter contacts and revealed extensive differences in promoter architecture between cell types and throughout differentiation  . These studies collectively demonstrated that genome architecture reflects cell identity , suggesting that disease-relevant cell types are critical for successful interrogation of the gene regulatory mechanisms of disease loci . In support of this notion , several recent studies utilized high-resolution promoter interaction maps to identify tissue-specific target genes of GWAS associations . generated promoter capture Hi-C data in 17 primary human blood cell types and identified 2604 potentially causal genes for immune- and blood-related disorders , including many genes with unannotated roles in those diseases  . interrogated GWAS SNPs associated with autoimmune diseases using HiChIP where they identified ~10 , 000 promoter-enhancer interactions that linked several hundred SNPs to target genes , most of which were not the nearest gene  . Importantly , both studies reported cell-type specificity of SNP-target gene interactions . To begin to dissect the molecular mechanisms by which genetic variants contribute to CVD risk , a comprehensive gene regulatory map of human cardiac cells is required . Here , we present high-resolution promoter interaction maps of human iPSCs and iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes  . Using PCHi-C , we identified hundreds of thousands of promoter interactions in each cell type . We demonstrate the physiological relevance of these datasets by functionally interrogating the relationship between gene expression and long-range promoter interactions , and demonstrate the utility of long-range chromatin interaction data to resolve the functional targets of disease-associated loci . We used iPSC-derived CMs  as a model to study cardiovascular gene regulation and disease genetics . To demonstrate that iPSCs and CMs recapitulate transcriptional and epigenetic profiles of matched primary cells , we conducted RNA-seq and ChIP-seq for the active enhancer mark H3K27ac in both cell types and compared these data with similar cell types from the Epigenome Roadmap Project  . Furthermore , we observed that matched cell types exhibited three-fold greater overlap in the number of promoter-distal H3K27ac ChIP-seq peaks than non-matched cell types  , indicating that both iPSCs and CMs recapitulate tissue-specific epigenetic states of human stem cells and primary cardiomyocytes , respectively . Among the top 10% of over-expressed genes in CMs were genes directly related to cardiac function including essential cardiac transcription factors  and differentiation products   . Gene Ontology  enrichment analysis for genes over-expressed in CMs relative to iPSCs further confirmed the cardiac-specific phenotypes of these cells with top terms relating to the development of the cardiac conduction system and cardiac muscle cell contraction  . To comprehensively map long-range regulatory elements in iPSCs and CMs , we performed in-situ Hi-C  in triplicate iPSC-CM differentiations; importantly , we used the four-cutter restriction enzyme MboI which generates ligation fragments with an average size of 422 bp , enabling enhancer-level resolution of promoter contacts . We enriched iPSC and CM in situ Hi-C libraries for promoter interactions through hybridization with a set of 77 , 476 biotinylated RNA probes  targeting 22 , 600 human RefSeq protein-coding promoters  and sequenced each library to an average depth of ~413 million  paired-end reads . A large proportion  of interactions were shared between the two cell types , indicating that even at high resolution many long-range interactions are stable across cell types  . Approximately 20% of all interactions were between two promoters , demonstrating the high connectivity between genes and supporting the recently suggested role of promoters acting as regulatory inputs for distal genes   . Most interactions were promoter-distal , with a median of ~170 kb between the promoter and the distal-interacting region  . To compare the PCHi-C maps with known features of genome organization , we sequenced our pre-capture Hi-C libraries to an average depth of 665M reads per cell type and identified topologically associating domains  with TopDom  . Notably , this organization is thought to constrain the activity of cis-regulatory elements to target genes within the same TAD , as disruption of TAD boundaries has been shown to lead to aberrant activation of genes in neighboring TADs  . TAD-crossing interactions  contained proportionally more promoter-promoter interactions than intra-TAD interactions , and were more likely to overlap promoter-distal CTCF sites; however , they were similarly enriched for looping to distal H3K27ac sites , a mark of active chromatin  . Inter-TAD interactions had slightly lower CHiCAGO scores , reflecting a lower number of reads supporting these interactions , and spanned greater genomic distances than intra-TAD interactions  . Additionally , promoters with inter-TAD interactions were preferentially located close to TAD boundaries  and had higher expression levels compared to promoters with intra-TAD interactions , particularly in CMs  . These observations are consistent with previous studies which demonstrated that highly expressed genes , specifically housekeeping genes , are enriched at TAD boundaries  . GATA4 is a master regulator of heart development  and the GATA4 gene is located in a TAD structure that is relatively stable between iPSCs and CMs  . However , PCHi-C identified increased interaction frequencies between the GATA4 promoter and several H3K27ac-marked regions , including four in vivo validated heart enhancers from the Vista enhancer browser  , specifically in CMs and coincident with strong up-regulation of GATA4  . Although TAD-based analyses help define a gene’s cis-regulatory landscape , high-resolution promoter interaction data provides the resolution necessary to precisely map enhancer-promoter interactions in the context of cellular differentiation . Distal enhancers activate target genes through DNA looping , a mechanism that enables distally bound transcription factors to contact the transcription machinery of target promoters  . To assess whether this feature of gene regulation was reflected in the iPSC and CM interactions , we conducted motif analysis using HOMER  on the set of promoter-distal interacting sequences in each cell type . We initially focused on interactions for genes differentially expressed between iPSCs and CMs  . Among the other top motifs , we identified the pluripotency factor motifs OCT4-SOX2-TCF-NANOG  and SOX2 as preferentially enriched in distal sequences looping to genes over-expressed in iPSCs  , whereas top motifs in distal sequences looping to genes over-expressed in CMs included TBX20 , ESRRB and MEIS1  . In line with a recent report that AP-1 contributes to dynamic loop formation during macrophage development  , both iPSC- and CM-specific interactions were enriched for AP-1 motifs  , suggesting that AP-1 transcription factors may represent a previously unrecognized genome organizing complex . In support of the gene-regulatory function of long-range interactions , we found that the promoter-distal MboI fragments involved in significant promoter interactions were enriched for these three histone modifications in both iPSCs and CMs  . When promoters were grouped by expression level , we observed that this enrichment increased with increasing expression for H3K27ac and H3K4me1 , and decreased with increasing expression for H3K27me3 , consistent with an additive nature of enhancer-promoter interactions  , and validating that PCHi-C enriches for likely functional long-range chromatin contacts . A strong correlation  between the degree of histone modifications and gene expression was first reported nearly 10 years ago  ; however , that analysis only considered histone modifications within 2 kb of promoters . To understand whether this relationship extends beyond promoter-proximal regions , we correlated the number of histone ChIP-seq peaks within 300 kb of promoters with the promoter’s expression level  . Although moderate , these correlations could partially explain why higher expressed genes show stronger enrichment for promoter interactions overlapping histone peaks when using a genome-wide background model  , and lends support to the notion that active genes are located in generally active genomic environments  . We next investigated the relationship between cell-type-specific interactions and enrichment for tissue-specific CTCF , H3K27ac , and H3K27me3 marks , hypothesizing that interactions unique to iPSCs or CMs would be most enriched for tissue-specific chromatin features . Indeed , we observed that cell-type-specific interactions preferentially involved H3K27ac peaks from the matched cell type , and were either not enriched  or depleted  for H3K27ac marks that were specific to the non-matched cell type  . These results suggest that all interactions , whether shared or unique to one cell type , preferentially contact regulatory regions that are active in both cell types , whereas cell-type-specific interactions are not likely to occur in regions specifically marked in the non-matched cell type . An example of a gene that encompasses these observations is the atrial natriuretic peptide gene NPPA  which is specifically expressed in cells of the heart atrium and is upregulated in CMs  . NPPA makes numerous cell-type-specific interactions to a distal region that is only marked with active chromatin  in CMs; furthermore , functional characterization showed that this region corresponds to an in vivo enhancer recapitulating NPPA’s endogenous expression in the developing heart  . Taken together , these results illuminate the complex relationship between long-range promoter interactions and gene regulation and provide evidence that promoter architecture reflects cell-type-specific gene expression . Although most compartments are stable across different cell types , some compartments switch states in a cell-type-specific manner which may reflect important gene regulatory changes  . To assess whether capture Hi-C data , which is more cost-effective for capturing promoter-centered interactions , is able to identify A/B compartments , we compared our capture Hi-C data with pre-capture , genome-wide Hi-C libraries . Compartments were relatively stable across this region in iPSCs and CMs; however , the CAMK2D gene itself was located in a dynamic compartment that switched from inactive in iPSCs to active in CMs . We observed this effect on a global level , as genes located in A compartments were expressed at significantly higher levels than genes located in the B compartments in both iPSCs and CMs  . GO analysis of the 1008 genes that switched from B to A compartments during iPSC-CM differentiation revealed enrichment for terms such as ‘cardiovascular system development’ and ‘heart contraction’  . Importantly , these genes were identified based solely on their location in a dynamic genomic compartment and not from gene expression data . GO analysis for genes that switched from A to B compartments during iPSC-CM differentiation related to non-cardiac processes , such as skin development , epithelial cell differentiation and sex determination  . These data show that PCHi-C accurately captured tissue-specific interactions and indicate that compartmentalization of genes in spatially regulated regions of the nucleus may be one mechanism to ensure tissue-specific gene expression  . In summary , our analyses demonstrated that CM promoter interactions recapitulate key features of cardiac gene regulation and function , validating the CM map as an important tool to investigate CVD genetics . A particularly relevant application of high-resolution promoter interaction maps is to guide post-GWAS studies by identifying the target genes of disease-associated variants . We employed this approach to link GWAS SNPs for several major cardiovascular diseases to their target gene  using the CM interaction map . We found that 1999  of the LD SNPs were located in promoter-distal MboI fragments that interacted with the promoters of 347 genes in CMs  , hereafter referred to as target genes . The majority  of LD SNP-target gene pairs were located within the same TAD , with a median distance of 185 kb between each SNP-target gene pair  . 4% of SNP-target gene interactions skipped at least one gene promoter and 42% of SNPs interacted with at least two different promoters  . To confirm that the CM PCHi-C interactions linked SNPs to CVD-relevant target genes , we performed GO analysis and found that target genes were highly and specifically enriched for biological processes related to cardiac function , such as membrane repolarization and cardiac conduction  . As a control , we used iPSC interactions to link the same SNPs to target genes and observed a completely different set of unrelated biological processes for these genes  . To further characterize the biological relevance of target genes , we mined mouse knock-out data from the Mouse Genome Informatics  database  , which revealed that a statistically significant number of target genes resulted in a cardiovascular phenotype when knocked-out in the mouse ( 78 genes  , p=1 × 10−5 , Figure 5D ) . Finally , we examined expression quantitative trait loci  data from human left ventricle  tissue obtained as part of the Genotype-Tissue Expresion  Project  and found that of the 1999 LD SNPs in interactions , 410  corresponded to LV eQTLs; in comparison , only 12 . On a genome-wide level , LV eQTLs in promoter-distal interactions were significantly more likely to loop to their associated gene than expected by chance  . Taken together , these results indicate that CM promoter interactions identify a subset of disease-relevant SNPs most likely to be functional and support the use of the CM map to assign distal CVD-associated SNPs to putative target genes . However , because a subset of target genes was over-expressed in iPSCs relative to CMs  , we predicted that gene expression level alone may be an insufficient metric to gauge the relevance of target genes to CVD biology . To illustrate this point , we highlight two genes: TBX5 , a gene directly linked to cardiac arrhythmia   , and LITAF , a gene that , until recently , had no obvious role in cardiac biology   . Both genes formed long-range interactions to LD SNPs identified in arrhythmia GWAS , making both genes candidate functional targets of the GWAS associations . TBX5 , which is over-expressed in CMs  , is the most likely target gene of the LD SNPs nearby based on the interaction data but also because of its known role in directing proper development of the cardiac conduction system . LITAF , on the other hand , was over-expressed in iPSCs compared to CMs  and was not known to contribute to cardiac function until a recent study identified this gene as a regulator of cardiac excitation in zebrafish hearts  . Specifically , we considered that cardiac arrhythmias – which directly result from defects in cardiomyocytes specialized for electrical conduction – may uncover the most cardiac-relevant target genes compared to heart failure and myocardial infarction , two CVDs that also involve non-cardiac systems . When broken down into the respective disease classes , we confirmed that the majority of the GO enrichment for cardiac terms was driven by the cardiac arrhythmia SNPs  , with terms directly related to the cardiac conduction system . For example , one of the strongest associations for myocardial infarction lies in-between the CELSR2 and PSRC1 genes on chromosome 1p13 , but a careful screen of genes whose expression was affected by the risk allele implicated the more distal SORT1 gene  . Despite functioning in the liver , we identified multiple promoter interactions between SORT1 and the myocardial infarction GWAS locus in CMs  , directly implicating SORT1 as the target gene and lending further support to experimental validation of this locus as a SORT1 enhancer  . Additionally , the ACTA2 gene is located 220 kb away from the heart failure GWAS locus proximal to the CH25H and LIPA genes on chromosome 10q21   . Despite its location at a considerable distance from the GWAS association , chromatin interactions provide an important level of evidence that ACTA2 is a putative causal gene in the development of heart failure . Therefore , the CM interaction map is not only useful to interrogate diseases directly related to cardiomyocytes , as in the case of cardiac arrhythmias , but also aids interpretation of target genes that may act in non-cardiac tissues . Gene regulation by distant regulatory elements involves the bridging of linearly separated DNA sequences , for example between a promoter and its distal enhancers , through chromatin looping mechanisms  . In support of this model , we report an enrichment of tissue-defining transcription factor motifs in the distally interacting sequences of differentially expressed promoters both for CMs and iPSCs , providing an important level of evidence to validate the functional relevance of iPSC and CM interactions . We observed the same trend in our data , with highly expressed genes exhibiting strong enrichment for looping to distal H3K4me1 and H3K27ac-marked regions , and lowly expressed genes exhibiting strong enrichment for looping to H3K27me3-marked regions . Thus , highly expressed genes are more likely to contact active chromatin regions compared to lowly expressed genes , corresponding to the observed increasing enrichment of contacts and expression we and others have reported . This local increase in active or repressive chromatin may be one driving force underlying the expression level-dependent increase in association between promoters and cis-regulatory elements , akin to a phase separation-mediated model of enhancer-promoter interactions  . We demonstrated several ways in which promoter interaction data can be used to better understand disease genetics , specifically addressing the major requirement for a high-resolution map of the gene-regulatory network in human cardiomyocytes . Although iPSC-derived CMs are known to be relatively immature and do not fully reflect the diverse structural and functional aspects of adult cardiac cells  , the difficulty in obtaining pure sub-populations of primary cardiomyocytes with high integrity necessitates the use of an in vitro system . Because of this purity , we were able to integrate CVD-associated SNPs with CM promoter interactions with high confidence , assigning nearly 20% of the variants in high LD with these associations to 347 target genes . Supporting the physiological relevance of CMs to the cardiac conduction system , we found that target genes were most relevant for GWAS loci associated with cardiac arrhythmias , in line with previous findings in immune cells that many target gene interactions were unique to relevant immune cell subtypes  . Our data also revealed that even for diseases whose etiology involves cell types other than cardiomyocytes , such as myocardial infarction and heart failure , we identified interactions involving loci associated with these diseases that recapitulate the enhancer-promoter interactions in non-cardiac cell types . Therefore , the promoter interactions we observe linking the disease locus to SORT1 may represent tissue-invariant genome architecture , likely reflecting that genome organization in general is relatively stable  . While we advocate the use of the CM map for investigating gene regulatory mechanisms of diseases related to cardiomyocyte biology , we also emphasize that , where identified , any interaction between a promoter and a putative disease-associated genomic region serves as an important level of evidence to prioritize that gene for future follow-up studies . Although the capture step greatly enriches for promoter-containing ligation fragments in a Hi-C library , the total landscape of promoter contacts in a population of cells is still under-sampled , even with a sequencing depth of ~400M reads per replicate conducted for this study . However , we note that there is a strong correspondence between TADs called on pre-capture Hi-C data and PCHi-C interactions identified with CHiCAGO  ; this suggests that accounting for TAD boundaries may only marginally improve our ability to identify significant interactions . Although most regulatory elements are thought of as activating , it is possible that long-range interactions may also contribute to gene silencing; this is supported by the observation that silent genes are enriched for long-range interactions to H3K27me3 marked regions  . Alternatively , silent genes may contact regulatory elements that are not active in the analyzed cell type or developmental stage; these may represent ‘pre-formed’ loops between genes and their regulatory elements as characterized in Ghavi-Helm et al . Despite these limitations , the data sets we provide here represent a highly enriched set of ~350 , 000 and~400 , 000 promoter interactions in iPSC and CMs , respectively; although there are likely missing interactions , the interactions that we did identify should be considered as very high confidence , as they were independently identified in at least two biological replicates and show strong signal of enrichment for known features of genome architecture and gene regulation . In conclusion , the promoter interaction maps we generated in this study represent important resources for any investigation into the gene regulatory mechanisms underlying cardiovascular disease traits . Additionally , we provide the significant PCHi-C interaction files used in all analyses in the Supplementary Material  ; these can be applied to future multi-omics analyses of gene regulation and disease genetics . We carried out three independent differentiations of the same iPSC line and generated promoter-capture Hi-C and RNA-seq libraries in iPSCs and CMs from each triplicate . In this study , we focused exclusively on cis-interactions as the evidence that trans-chromosomal interactions contribute to gene expression regulation is limited . CHiCAGO reports interactions for each captured restriction fragment; to summarize interactions by gene , we considered the interval spanning all captured fragments  as the promoter region  . In cases where multiple genes were annotated to the same promoter region , we report the interaction for each gene individually . To identify cell type-specific interactions , we required that the interaction  was not present in any of the three replicates of the other cell type . The GWAS SNP analyses were conducted with 1kb-extended interactions , as we aimed to be as inclusive as possible when linking CVD SNPs to target genes . PCHi-C interactions , TADs , RNA-seq , publicly available ChIP-seq , and GWAS SNPs are hosted by the WashU EpiGenome Browser  as a public track hub . To generate the by-gene read counts displayed in the genome-browser figures , all read-pairs mapping to captured MboI fragments for a given promoter were summed across replicates . We considered a promoter capture Hi-C interaction to be ‘intra-TAD’ if the entire span of the interaction was fully contained in a single domain . A hypergeometric test was used to calculate the statistical significance of the difference of the number of genes associated with a given GO term in a particular gene set and the universe of all RefSeq genes  . For two of the GWAS disease groups  , the list of genes looping to LD SNPs included many histone genes . After expanding the tag SNP to all SNPs in LD , many of the histone genes in that cluster looped to the LD SNPs , resulting in a high representation of these genes in the final gene list . We therefore chose to remove these genes from the final gene lists of heart failure and myocardial infarction target genes . We grouped genes into five expression categories based on the average TPM values: group 1  , group 2  , group 3  , group 4  and group 5  and for each group of genes , we calculated the enrichment for promoter interactions to overlap a given feature . To calculate enrichment of interactions overlapping an epigenetic feature , we compared the observed proportion of MboI fragments in significant interactions overlapping a feature to the proportion of random MboI fragments overlapping the feature . To calculate the correlation between expression and histone ChIP-seq peak density , we calculated the Spearman’s rank correlation between the expression value for each gene  and the number of peaks mapping within 300 kb of each gene TSS . We only considered genes with at least one significant interaction in the respective cell type to allow for generalizations to the enrichment analysis presented in Figure 3 . We compiled genome-wide significant SNPs associated with GWAS for cardiac arrhythmia , heart failure , and myocardial infarction from the NHGRI-EBI database  ; see Supplementary file 7 for list of terms used to identify specific GWAS . We assigned all SNPs in promoter-distal interactions to their interacting gene   using cardiomyocyte promoter capture Hi-C data . We did not require the SNP to map to regions associated with open chromatin or enhancer marks as these types of data are highly cell-type specific and we did not wish to exclude SNPs in regions that may be active in non-assayed cell types . To calculate enrichment of target genes to cause cardiovascular phenotypes when deleted in mice  , we randomly selected 347 genes from the list of starting genes  , and calculated the proportion that caused a cardiovascular phenotype in mice . Random genes were not required to be expressed , as the set of target genes contains genes that are not expressed . For eQTLs used in comparisons with GWAS variants and Hi-C interactions , we used the set of GTEx v7 eQTLs identified as significant in the left ventricle of the heart  . We only considered promoter-distal eQTLs that were at least 10 kb from their associated gene to allow for that eQTL to map to an interaction with it’s associated gene . To calculate enrichment for eQTLs to loop to their associated gene , we used a background model whereby each promoter’s set of interactions were re-mapped to a different promoter , keeping the distance and strand orientation consistent . We performed this re-mapping of all promoter interactions 1000 times and calculated the proportion of all eQTLs that mapped to interactions for their eQTL-associated gene in each permutation . We either used the CM interactions or the iPSC interactions with the same set of left ventricle eQTLs to compare cell-type specificity of the promoter interaction data . "
"Mimicry complexes typically consist of multiple species that deter predators using similar anti-predatory signals . Mimics in these complexes are assumed to vary in their level of defence from highly defended through to moderately defended , or not defended at all . Here , we report a new multi-order mimicry complex that includes at least 140 different putative mimics from four arthropod orders including ants , wasps , bugs , tree hoppers and spiders . All members of this mimicry complex are characterised by a conspicuous golden body and an ant Gestalt , but vary substantially in their defensive traits . However , they were similarly effective at deterring predators - even mildly defended mimics were rarely eaten by a community of invertebrate and vertebrate predators both in the wild and during staged trials . We propose that despite the predominance of less defended mimics the three predatory guilds avoid the mimics because of the additive influence of the various defensive traits . Classic Müllerian mimicry was thought to only include equally defended species  , while Batesian mimicry  describes undefended species resembling defended models . In reality , this simplistic dichotomy  represents the end-points of a mimetic spectrum that contains species that vary in their mimetic fidelity and/or their degree of defensiveness . A topic of considerable debate  is the putative influence that moderately defended mimics have on the stability of mimicry rings  . Discrepancy in protection between two mimetic species may dilute the protection of a more defended species  . Great tits  for instance , attacked artificial models more often when less defended mimics were frequently encountered and food was restricted  . In direct contrast , associative learning mechanisms predict a mutualistic relationship between moderately and highly defended members of the ring  : wild caught great tits equally avoided four species of true bugs with varying levels of defence but which shared similar warning colours  . Müllerian mimicry rings typically consist of a few closely related species  , with the exceptions of the species-rich mutillid wasp  , Heliconius butterfly  and bumblebee  complexes . The mutillid wasp complex is suspected of including species from other orders but this has not been formally presented  . For example , ants have been largely overlooked as Müllerian mimics , yet they are diverse , typically well defended through a range of defensive measures including a sting , noxious chemicals , spines , a thickened cuticle , mandibles and communal attack  . There is also a rich diversity of invertebrate taxa that mimic ants . Species within Müllerian rings thus far described use the same defensive traits . The degree of distastefulness or level of venom toxicity within a mimicry ring is expected to vary among members . Experimental investigations , that started a hundred years ago  , have tended to focus on a single visually-oriented predatory guild and yet most environments contain a wide range of potential predators of mimics . For example , species that mimic ants may encounter several ant-averse and ant-eating predators  . In some microhabitats , such as leaf litter , the ant-eating predators  and ant-adverse nonvisually-orienting predators are indeed more common than visually-orienting ones , thus exerting strong selection pressure on mimics to signal their unpalatability in sensory modalities other than visual . Thus one of the major outstanding questions regarding the contribution of mimics to the function of mimetic rings is evaluating the success of Müllerian and/or Batesian mimicry by analysing the selection pressure exerted by all predators in a given environment  . Here , we describe a novel diverse and species rich mimicry complex consisting of golden ant , wasp , true bug , treehopper , and spider mimics and we investigate hypotheses concerning their unpalatability and resulting efficacy against predation . Mimetic complexes are often composed of rings – groups of species that draw advantages from similar aposematic signals  . We therefore tested whether the rings have a sympatric distribution , which would indicate a mutualistic relationship between mimics and whether mimics within a ring share common ancestry . Our second step was to quantify the relationship between the proposed aposematic signal  and the level of noxiousness or distastefulness of the mimics that display the signal . Aposematic warning signals and distastefulness are expected to evolve together within a species  and thus , the strength of the distasteful stimulus should coincide with the conspicuousness of the warning signal  . In this mimicry complex , we investigated whether there is a positive relationship between signal intensity and unpalatability across species as has recently been found among lady-bird beetles  . This would mean that truly Müllerian mimics are expected to honestly signal their distastefulness but truly Batesian mimics display a conspicuous warning signal without the noxious stimulus . We tested these assumptions by correlating the size of the warning signal  with a measure of distastefulness derived from the sum of defences found in the mimics . Our critical third step was to extend the scope of previous studies of mimicry complexes by experimentally testing the efficacy of the aposematic signal , and indeed the validity of the Müllerian mimicry claim , through staged predator-prey trials . Based on the broad diversity of defences used by mimics in this complex , we predict that predators should learn quickly to avoid mimics  , and that mimics should be protected from a range of predators . Finally , we examined how the aposematic signal and the level of defensiveness interplay with a community of predators that rely on multiple sensory modalities . Mimicry complexes are typically characterised by a distinct colour pattern and hence experiments are often biased towards visual-oriented predators and usually vertebrates . In reality , the members of a complex are exposed to predators that use a variety of sensory modalities and foraging modes to detect and subdue their prey . We combined staged predatory trials with a dietary analysis of wild populations of a community of predators to test the hypothesis that more unpalatable species are attacked less frequently by a community of predators . We uncovered a cross-order mimicry complex , consisting of at least 140 arthropod species including 126 ant species , seven spider species  , three species of true bugs , one mutillid wasp and one treehopper  . Members of the complex are all ant-like in appearance and characterised by a dorsal patch of golden coloration combined with blackish colouration  , which we recognise as an aposematic signal  . Related non-mimetic species are typically uniformly black or brown . List of mimic species belonging to the golden complex arranged according to the order , family  , and genus  . 003OrderFamily  Genus  SpeciesHymenopteraFormicidae  Camponotus aeneopilosus Mayr; aurocinctus  ; bigenus Santschi; ephippium  ; fergusoni McArthur; nigroaeneus  ; oxleyi Forel; piliventris  ; setosus Shattuck and McArthur; suffusus  ; tasmani Forel; thadeus Shattuck; wiederkehri Forel Polyrhachis  appendiculata Emery; arcuata  ; aurea Mayr; bedoti Forel; constricta Emery; cydista Kohout; cyrus Forel; guerini Roger; heinlethii Forel; lata Emery; obtusa Emery; pallescens Mayr; schoopae Forel; senilis Forel; vermiculosa Mayr Polyrhachis  ammon  ; ammonoeides Roger; anderseni Kohout; angusta Forel; archeri Kohout; aurora Kohout; brisbanensis Kohout; brutella Kohout; burwelli Kohout; callima Kohout; capeyorkensis Kohout; conciliata Kohout; cracenta Kohout; crawleyi Forel; darlingtoni Kohout; denticulata Karavaiev; diversa Kohout; dougcooki Kohout; electra Kohout; elengatula Kohout; feehani Kohout; hoffmani Kohout; melanura Kohout; nourlangie Kohout; penelope Forel; pilbara Kohout; placida Kohout; seducta Kohout; semiaurata Mayr; stricta Kohout; tanami Kohout; tenebra Kohout; thusnelda Forel; trapezoidea Mayr; tubifera Forel; unicaria Kohout; vernoni Kohout; weiri Kohout Polyrhachis  argentosa Forel; barretti Clark; cleopatra Forel; consimilis Smith; cupreata Emery; daemeli Mayr; erato Forel; euterpe Forel; hermione Emery; mjobergi Forel; ornata Mayr; rufifemur Forel; terpsichore Forel; thais Forel Formicidae  Polyrhachis  andromache Roger; foreli Kohout; inusitata Kohout Polyrhachis  dispar Kohout; dives Smith; reclinata Emery; sexspinosa  Polyrhachis  bellicosa Smith Formicidae  Dolichoderus angusticornis Clark; clarki Wheeler; dentatus Forel; doriae Emery; extensispinus Forel; inferus Shattuck and Marsden; niger Crawley; rufotibialis Clark; scabridus Roger; scrobiculatus  ; turneri Forel Iridomyrmex anderseni Shattuck; azureus Viehmeyer; coeruleus Heterick and Shattuck; roseatus Heterick and Shattuck; ypsilon Forel Formicidae  Myrmecia athertonensis Forel; auriventris Mayr; borealis Ogata and Taylor; chrysogaster  ; cydista  ; eungellensis Ogata and Taylor; fabricii Ogata and Taylor; flavicoma Roger; fulviculis Forel; fulvipes Roger; gilberti Forel; harderi Forel; luteiforceps Wheeler; mandibularis Smith; michaelseni Forel; petiolata Emery; piliventris Smith; rugosa Wheeler; tepperi Emery; tridentata Ogata and Taylor FormicidaeDiacamma schoedli Shattuck and Barnett  Pachycondyla sublaevis  MutillidaeEphutomorpha aurata  HemipteraEurymelidaeEurymela rubrolimbata Kirkaldy RhyparochromidaeDaerlac apicalis  ; cephalotes  ; nigricans DistantAraneaeSalticidaeMyrmarachne erythrocephala forma erato  ; erythrocephala forma ornata  ; erythrocephala forma daemeli  ; luctuosa forma aeneopilosa  ; luctuosa forma aurea  ; macleayana forma foreli  Ligonipes illustris Karsch Ohilimia scutellata  CorinnidaeNyssus luteofinis Raven GnaphosidaeEilica sp . The tips of the tree represent species and full circles are coloured according to putative ring classification . Overview of selected mimetic species belonging to the golden complex . In contrast , true bugs and spiders use a combination of hairs and yellow pigmentation  , while the treehopper appears to use only pigment as the golden shine is lost after death . SEM  and light photography  of the dorsal side of mimics . 006 The cluster analysis suggested the existence of ten putative rings within the complex , according to variation in the dorsal colour pattern but the differences were rather small  . For instance , rings in the east coast of Australia overlapped where species richness was the greatest  . 007 We determined the unpalatability of 100 species belonging to the golden mimicry complex . Because several complementary forms of defence are likely , we estimated total unpalatability for each mimic based on the sum of morphological , chemical , and behavioural defensive traits . Our analyses uncovered a spectrum of mimics from non-defended  to highly defended  species . For instance , the spider and treehopper species had the lowest unpalatability score  and were therefore classified as Batesian mimics . Daerlac bugs , mutillid wasps and all ant species were unpalatable , but we found considerable variation in the degree of unpalatability ranging from quasi-Müllerian to unambiguously Müllerian , mimics . The index of unpalatability had an overall normal distribution  with the highest frequency consisting of moderately-palatable species . Unpalatability varied in each ring but the variation was not significantly different among the ten rings suggested previously  supporting further the existence of only one complex . We discovered that the absolute area of the golden colouration increased with unpalatability  supporting the hypothesis that the golden colour is an aposematic signal . Histogram of unpalatability of the mimetic complex with horizontal boxplots for each ring . Relationship between the absolute area of dorsal golden colouration of mimics and their unpalatability . Relationship between unpalatability and post-attack response of skinks to the six prey species from being eaten  , to cleaning its mouth  and spitting out the prey item  . 008 We quantified predation of mimics by the 12 most abundant predatory species that co-occurred with 13 sympatric mimetic species belonging to the complex  . We analysed gut content or faeces of these predators  , representing three different guilds , using Next Generation Sequencing , which allows identification of prey to species . We found that individuals of all predatory species were positive for primers targeting the DNA of ants , spiders , and mutillid wasps . The frequency of captured mimics was not significantly different from their availability in the environment  because mimics were very rare in the field . Only three mimetic species  were detected in the faeces/gut of predators . Visually-oriented and non-visually oriented euryphagous  predators captured mimics at less than 4% frequency , whereas specialized ant-eating predators captured mostly Batesian mimics  . The overall attack rate estimated for all predators was marginally significantly negatively related to the unpalatability of mimics when it included two Batesian mimics  . The percentage of predator individuals found with DNA  of mimics in their gut/faeces . 3% individuals of predators , the primer specific for Myrmarachne spiders amplified 3 . 9% individuals of predators , and the primer specific for mutillids amplified 9 . The predators  were collected on the Macquarie University campus . N gives the number of individual predators screened . The mimics are arranged from the most to the least palatable  . Relationship between unpalatability and predation pressure . Relationship between unpalatability and the total predation pressure  on 13 mimics by three guilds of predators  . See Table 2 for unpalatability of mimics . Relationship between unpalatability of five mimics and total predation pressure  from three representatives of predators  . Solid symbols = Batesian mimics , hollow symbols = Müllerian mimics . 010 We exposed five species of mimics  of varying unpalatability  and one non-mimic  to one representative of each of three guilds of naïve predator species  . Eastern water skinks  are visually-oriented generalist predators and captured  non-mimetic spiders at significantly higher frequency than members of the mimetic complex such as ants , spiders and bugs  . In accordance with our classification of unpalatability , we found a strong positive relationship between prey unpalatability and the post-attack response of skinks  . Mimic or non-mimic spiders were immediately eaten , but skinks showed an adverse response to mimic ants and bugs . These prey were clearly distasteful because the skinks immediately cleaned their mouths and frequently spat the prey out . A list of traits used to assess the unpalatability of five mimics . 011SpeciesFrequency of bitingSpray chemicalsNumber of spinesTotal spines length Cuticle thickness Total body size Mandible size Gland size P . Capture of mimics by three predators . Comparison of frequency of attacks on five mimics and one non-mimic by skinks  ; Lampona spiders  , and Servaea spiders  . 012 We found similar patterns in the non-visually oriented ant-adverse Lampona spiders  , which captured non-mimic spiders significantly more frequently than all mimics  , showing no differentiation between the mimics . By contrast , the visually oriented ant-eating specialist Servaea spiders  readily attacked and captured mimics as well as non-mimics . Although these spiders readily attacked the mimics they did appear to differentiate between their levels of defence  . The most unpalatable ant was attacked at a significantly lower frequency than other mimics  and moderately unpalatable ant species were captured at a significantly lower frequency than bug and spider mimics  . In summary , euryphagous and ant-adverse predators were less likely to capture a mimic than a non-mimic while the ant-specialist attacked the ants and ant-mimics alike but the likelihood of attack varied according to the mimic’s actual unpalatability . There was no relationship between levels of unpalatability and the sum of predation pressure  exerted by the three predatory guilds  . Ants have not been considered in Müllerian mimetic rings , which is perhaps surprising given their diversity and the number of known ant-mimics . The lack of ant fauna in mimetic rings possibly reflects an overall lack of conspicuous defensive coloration in ants . However , our study supports a species rich mimicry complex of golden coloured ant models and mimics , adding to the small number of documented large-scale complexes . Many more large-scale mimetic complexes among ants and other animals  are likely to be described in future . The species richness of this golden complex exceeds those of fish or millipedes  but is currently smaller than in mutillid wasp  , heliconid butterfly  and bumblebee  complexes . The key members in the golden complex are ants but the complex is taxonomically broad and includes species with distant phylogenetic origins . Beside the species mentioned , it may include a few other groups , such as bees , flies , and cerambycid beetles , in which some species also have a golden colouration . The distribution of the majority of the ten putative mimetic rings in the complex overlapped with at least one other ring . Although the cluster analysis distinguished rings , the distances between the rings were not large suggesting that the entire complex is just a single ring . Our findings are not unlike those from other complexes that include rings of different colour pattern , which overlap in geographic distribution  . An overlap of golden rings or actually their non-existence potentially suggests that the variable golden colour patterns produce similar aposematic signals . Large mimetic complexes include taxa of close and distant phylogenetic origins  in which the colour pattern is not only a product of common ancestry but also of convergence . A shared ancestry is apparent for two species of Myrmarachne spiders  , three species of Daerlac bugs  , and several species of Polyrhachis ants  . The majority though , including Camponotus , Diacamma , Pachycondyla , and Iridomyrmex ants , other spider species , Eurymela treehopers , and Ephutomorpha wasps , have converged on the same phenotype as evidenced by their isolation within lineages of non-mimetic colour patterns . The diversity and geographic pattern of the golden phenotype is likely a result of co-divergence as found in other complexes  . Species in Müllerian rings described to date , e . heliconid butterflies , use a single defensive trait to teach predators that they are distasteful  . Species in our golden complex use multiple defensive traits including a variety of structural and chemical defences . We acknowledge this approach is somewhat simplistic as various traits are differentially effective against various predators . For example , a thick cuticle is effective against arthropod predators but ineffective against vertebrates  . On the other hand , spines are effective against vertebrates but ineffective in the defence against arthropod predators  . Different species of closely related predators may also use a variety of adaptations to deal with the defences of prey . For example , some spiders are able to catch ants even with a thick cuticle while others are not  . A true index of unpalatability requires an estimation of the total effectiveness of a combination of defensive structures , such as spines and thick cuticle and the toxicity of chemical compounds for each predator-prey combination . Although our approach is simplistic , the positive relationship between the index of unpalatability and the response of skinks strongly suggests that the measure is a good proxy for unpalatability . Body size alone is an anatomical constraint that may prevent predation , thus it is difficult to separate the effect of pure body size from the relative size of some defensive traits  . A strong correlation between body size and the size of defensive traits is natural , because larger spines , for example , require a larger body to support them . Whatever their single effect is , all these traits together , add to an overall unpalatability of mimics . Our study describes a new complex with a golden/black colour combination . Accordingly , our findings support the idea the coverage of golden colour acts as an honest signal of aposematism . All the predators in staged trials exhibited an aversion to the prey with the greatest coverage of golden colour . Furthermore , golden individuals were rarely found in the diet of natural populations of predators . Honest signalling is further supported by the positive correlation between the extent of the golden colour and unpalatability , controlling for body size in the analyses via phylogenetic correlation or as a covariate . It is necessary to investigate whether such a relationship between species holds for other known mimetic complexes . Unlike the classic yellow/black combination , members of the golden complex are defined by a metallic golden sheen . Just how important this sheen is in deterring a predator over and above just a matt colour has yet to be determined for this system . The aversion to prey with golden colour was apparent irrespective of the predator’s visual sensitivity . Visually- and non-visually orienting predators equally avoided the golden prey suggesting that golden mimics advertise their unpalatability via multiple sensory modalities . The non-visual predator still proportionally avoided the mimics despite not being able to detect the visual signal . Some non-visual predators potentially recognize mimics via the patterns of vibrations generated by their movements  . Predators typically use multisensory modalities to identify prey  such as movement , shape and defensive chemicals they emit . Our measure of unpalatability suggested that the highest proportion of individuals was moderately defended and defensiveness is distributed from highly defended to weakly defended . This is in agreement with previous claims that mimicry rings are dominated by moderately defended species  . Our findings , based on a limited number of mimics , multiple predatory guilds when taking into account , did not support this notion . Instead , all mimics investigated in our predator-prey trials experienced significantly lower mortality than the non-mimetic species , and this was irrespective of the coverage of gold . We found the skinks were more likely to attack the lesser-defended individuals but when the suite of predators was taken into account there was little variation in the overall predation pressure . This is potentially because some predators may not use the visual signal as a reference and are cuing in on other signals . Diet analyses of several potential predators also showed predators of all guilds , including non-visually oriented predators , captured mimics with very low frequency . The predators that we used are known to feed on non-mimetic prey too  . Indeed , they fed on prey related to the mimics as evidenced by the positive results of designed primers targeting the mimics . However , birds learn to avoid both Müllerian models and mimics irrespective of the availability of alternative prey  . In addition , there are multiple species of ant and ant models distributed across the sampling habitat occupying both terrestrial and arboreal habitats . The majority of the species in the complex are also ants and ants are typically super abundant due to their sociality . So it seems likely the predators would see these animals on a regular basis . For example , measurements of mimic colour were based on photographs as we were unable to collect all mimics . To correct for inherent differences in illumination used during photographing mimics , the obtained RGB values were standardized but not linearised , and thus should be interpreted with caution . The response of skinks could be affected by the constrained prey order  . Yet , other predators used showed similar response to mimics as skinks , though the order of offered prey was fully randomised . Here we present the first account of the golden mimetic complex , which we believe is an exciting model for future research . For example , the relationship between the level of unpalatability and the quality of the golden signals needs rigorous testing with a greater number of mimics . This would also help in deciphering the role of less-defended mimics in the protection of the entire complex . Similarly , exploring the function of non-visual signals in deterring predators will elucidate how this mimicry ring works . In conclusion , we present the first account of the golden mimicry complex . It consists of species that show considerable variation in their level and mode of defence , ranging from undefended Batesian mimics to highly defended Müllerian mimics , with most members of the complex somewhere in between . Our data suggest that all members of the golden mimicry complex receive quite similar net protection from a variety of predators presumably because they have a variety of defensive traits . We predict that mimetic complexes that incorporate a range of different forms of defence are not only more common than previously believed , but also more likely result in mutualism among the unequally defended members of the complex . Arthropod species forming the complex were selected based on the presence of a golden colour pattern on the dorsal side of their body and body size falling within the range 3–15 mm . All Australian ants , and known ant-like mimics , were examined for a dorsal golden appearance . The dorsal colour pattern was estimated from digital images of specimens  as performed in other studies on mimetic complexes  . The average value of each RGB colour component was estimated on the following body parts: dorsal side of head , appendages  , pronotum , mesonotum , metanotum , petiole , first segment of the gaster , and the remaining segments of the gaster/abdomen in ants and wasps using ImageJ . Likewise , for hemipterans and spiders the average colour value of each RGB colour component of corresponding body parts  were examined including the pedipalps/chelicera , frontal third of prosoma , second third and last third of the prosoma , legs  , the first half of the abdomen and the second half of the abdomen . In each species , we also measured the length of each body part  and an absolute area of the golden colouration on the dorsal side using ImageJ . Selected list of 100 species representing the ten putative mimetic rings . Species are arranged within each ring from the most to the least unpalatable  . 013 To assess colour pattern similarity among mimics and to find how many rings there are , we subjected 24 measures of the colour pattern , body size and area of golden patch of 100 mimics  to the Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling based on Bray-Curtis distance matrix . Because various body parts have different area and are thus differently conspicuous to predators , we used weighting of the measures by their relative size . Red Green Blue  contrast was estimated using 55 species of mimics . It was computed as the sum of differences in red , green , and blue values representing the golden and black colouration found on the body of mimics . The phylogenetic relationship at the genus level among the golden mimics was reconstructed from a combination of published phylogenies  . If species level phylogeny was not available , we used polytomic splitting at the species level . To test for phylogenetic inertia of classification to putative rings we used generalised least squares  with Pagel’s phylogenetic correlation structure  , in which low value of λ indicates low phylogenetic signal . The golden gaster/abdomen was dried at a room temperature for 10 days , then mounted on a stub and coated with gold prior to viewing under a SEM Jeol JSM 648OLA . The distribution of mimics across Australia was estimated using occurrence records from collections made by the authors , taxonomic papers  , museum material deposited in the Australian Museum and Queensland Museum and records stored in the database of the Atlas of Living Australia . To test for an association between colour similarity and distribution overlap of species in each mimicry-ring in Australia we used a grid cell of 400 × 400 km . Using the colour pattern data , we created a matrix and generated a distance matrix between species using Euclidean distance . To test a hypothesis that putative rings overlap in their geographic distribution , we studied the association between the geographical occurrence of mimics and colour similarity matrices by means of a Mantel test based on the Pearson correlation coefficient . We estimated unpalatability in 100 mimics  from the complex using the following seven traits  : length of the sting , number of spines , total length of spines , size of mandibles , cuticle thickness , size of poison/pygidial gland , and performance of a communal attack  . Size , number of spines and size of mandibles were measured in one individual from each species . So we collected the mimics  from a variety of places across Australia  . To measure the size of the gland , the gland was dissected from the gaster  using fine forceps , placed on a glass slide in a drop of water , and covered with a coverslip . To estimate these traits for the remaining ant species that we failed to collect we used an interpolation based on proxy measures using 55 specimens: the size of both the poison/pygidial gland and sting length were regressed  from the size of the gaster , and cuticle thickness was regressed from the size of the thorax . The gland content varies among species of ants from different subfamilies: Formicinae ants possess formic acid  , Dolichoderinae ants possess terpens , such as iridodial and dolichodial  , and Myrmeciinae ants possess indole  . poison/pygidial gland area and gaster length  sting length and gaster length  with estimated linear regression models . 014 Various defensive traits measured here are not similarly effective against predators . Yet we assumed that their effect is similar because different predators adapted to deal with different defences of prey . So to quantify unpalatability  of the jth mimic we summed the ith trait values , which were scaled by their maximal value due to difference in range: uj=∑j=1nxijmax  . As the index of unpalatability includes more details we used it in all analyses . In order to test that the complex is dominated by moderately-defended species we used a Shapiro-Wilk test to test for a shape of a normal distribution of the unpalatability . To test whether the rings are composed of a similar range of unpalatable species , we used Bartlett test of variance homogeneity . To test a hypothesis that unpalatability is related to the extent of gold colouration we used GLS to model the relationship between index of unpalatability and the absolute golden area  . To account for the fact that for some species , some defensive traits could not be measured  we used weights that corresponded to the proportion of observed characteristics . The body size had strong phylogenetic inertia  , thus by controlling for phylogeny the body size effect was included too , therefore use of the body size as a covariate was not necessary . We investigated the diet of several predators on the campus of Macquarie University , North Ryde , Sydney , Australia . The campus in addition to buildings , contains a patch of native forest , several rocky streams , and open green space interspersed with trees where the predators could have been collected and observed which would be very difficult or even impossible in the pristine forest where the selection have taken place . The predators included noisy miners , lizards  , and a number of arthropods that occur on the trunks and the immediate vicinity of Eucalyptus trees , where the mimics occur  . Co-existing predators were selected among the most abundant species to represent three guilds according to their trophic strategy and prey detection modality:  visually-oriented euryphagous predators ,  non-visually oriented ant-adverse predators , and  specialized ant-eating predators . We used the information of their gut content and data from the literature  to identify those that feed on prey related to the mimics . If more than 10% of individuals of a specific predator species were positive for primers designed for ants , the species was classified as ant-eating . These two predators were selected because they feed on arthropods , were most abundant among congeners and foraged on tree trunks . The gut of predators progressively degrades DNA through digestion  . A fragment of the COI gene was PCR amplified using LCO1490  and HCO2198  primers  from representatives of potential prey found across the Macquarie University campus  and predators ( Araneae: Clubiona robusta L . Based on sequence similarities/differences , group-specific primers , which would amplify DNA of mimics in the predator guts , were designed using Amplicon . Four primer pairs were tested with all prey and predator specimens used in this study to ensure that the primers amplify DNA of the studied prey groups only: primers MyrmF and MyrmR amplified Myrmarachne spiders , DaerF and DaerR amplified Daerlac true bugs , FormF and FormR amplified Camponotus , Polyrhachis and Myrmecia ants , and BothmF and BothmR primers amplified Bothriomutilla mutillid wasps  and to reject cross-amplifications with the predators . The sequences of cytochrome c oxidase obtained from the studied predators and the mimics are deposited in GenBank  . List of primer pairs used to identify mimics in the gut or faeces of potential predators . 015PrimerSequenceFragment length  Amplified generaDaerF5´- GAT CAA ATT TAT AAT AC −3´204Daerlac DaerR5´- TTC TGA TTA ATA AGG −3´FormF5´- GAT CAA ACY TTT AAY TC −3´220Camponotus , Myrmecia , Polyrhachis FormR5´- CCW GAT CCT TCA TTA ATA AA −3´MyrmF5´- ATT AGC TTC TAT TAT TG −3´142Myrmarachne MyrmR5´- TCT ATA GAA ATW CCT TCA G −3´BothmF5´- TCC TCA TGT TCA GGA ATA ATT AA −3´215Bothriomutilla BothmR5´- ATT AAG AGC ATA ATG GAT ATT GGG −3´ DNA was extracted from 553 spider abdomens using DNeasy Blood and Tissue Kit  following the manufacturer’s animal tissue protocol with a change in final step when only 50 μL of elution buffer was used . Reads were split according to their MIDs resulting in files corresponding to individual predators . Each MOTU was compared to the GenBank database using megablast and BOLD database and to the sequences of mimics obtained within this study . NGS produced 11 068 904 informative reads from all predators of which 614 , 273 reads belonged to the mimics . Availability of mimics to the predators was estimated by visual search on the trunks and below bark of 20 gum trees randomly selected on the campus . On each tree , abundance of mimics was surveyed by one person up to the height of 2 m from the ground for a period of 30 min on a sunny day . All mimics were collected , brought to the laboratory and identified to species . To test a hypothesis that the frequencies of captured mimics by all predators and those available at the microhabitat of predators are similar we used Chi-square test . In order to estimate the attack rate exerted by the whole community of predators as precisely as possible , we had to take into account two important variables that affect the predation:  the relative frequency  of positively screened ith predator individual for each jth mimic;  the capture probability of araneophagous spider predator  , where body size is a strong predictor of the likelihood of predation . The capture probability was estimated for each spider predator and mimic  . This latter adjustment was necessary in order to take into account the fact that spiders could have captured juvenile Myrmarachne or Daerlac individuals , which are not golden mimics and could not be distinguished from adult specimens by molecular methods . The functional model for the capture probability was obtained from data on eight spider species representing different guilds  . The logistic function was 11+exp  , where ratioij is the mimic/predator body size ratio . The ratio was estimated by measuring the body size of ten collected specimens of each predator and mimic . Then the overall pressure by the community of predators was estimated as a sum of all attack rates by means of the killing value , Kj  : Kj=∑j=1n−log  . To test whether natural mortality caused by predation is related to unpalatability of mimics we used nonparametric regression as the response variable had non-standard distribution , namely generalized additive model  from the mgcv package  . For predation trials we selected five species of mimics found on the Macquarie University campus . The five species represented a gradient of unpalatability  within the mimetic complex . We included examples of the most unpalatable to the least palatable mimics: the ants Polyrhachis ammon , Polyrhachis vermiculosa , and Camponotus aeneopilosus , the true bug Daerlac nigricans , and the spider Myrmarachne luctuosa . Based on their unpalatability , the ants and bugs were predicted to be Müllerian mimics , while the spider was predicted to be a Batesian mimic . Unpalatability was re-estimated for these five species using ten individuals from each species . The addition of an extra measure adjusted the previous estimated unpalatability  but the relative relationship of unpalatability between species remained the same . We used Eulamprus quoyii as our visually-oriented euryphagous vertebrate predator . A prey item was released into the container and the behaviour of the skink during the 5 min trial was recorded with a fixed video camera positioned above the container . Five minutes was deemed sufficient , as previous feeding trials with crickets have shown this species of lizard will attempt to capture prey within 1 min . If the potential prey survived it was removed , and the skink was left for 2 min to settle down . Another prey item was then released and so on until all five mimic prey types were used . As a non-mimic control , we used juveniles of the spider , Badumna insignis L . Koch , which was of a similar size to the other species but was not a mimic as it lacked golden colouration . The prey was offered to skinks using a constrained randomisation . There was randomisation within Müllerian mimics  followed by randomisation within less defended mimics  and non-mimic prey  because the predator must learn unpalatability by encountering the unpalatable models first . Ants , spiders and bugs were collected a few days prior to the trial . Koch was used as a nonvisually-oriented ant-adverse predator that will not capture ants but other spiders . Twenty-five late-instar juvenile Lampona spiders were collected from the bark of gum  trees on the Macquarie University campus and kept individually in tubes  . Spiders were fed with a clubionid spider once a week and provided with a moistened piece of gauze . During a trial , an individual from the five mimetic prey species and one non-mimic spider  was released into the Petri dish in a random order  . If the prey was not captured within 30 min we replaced it with a new one until one prey was captured . If the prey was captured , another prey was offered seven days later . Finally , we used the spider Servaea incana  as a specialised ant-eating predator . Twenty-seven adult individuals of Servaea spiders were collected from gum trees on the Macquarie University campus and placed singly in a Petri dish  and kept at 23°C and L:D = 16:8 . One individual of a mimic prey species was released into the dish . If the prey was captured another prey was offered five days later . In each trial we recorded whether the prey was captured as well as the behaviour of Servaea and prey . To compare the frequency of capture among used prey types for each predator , relative frequencies of prey capture from Eulamprus quoyi or Servaea experiments were subjected to generalised estimating equations  from the geepack package with a binomial error structure due to repeated use of the same skink individuals with different prey . To test whether the post-attack reaction of the skinks was related to prey unpalatability we used generalized linear model with binomial error structure  of scores of the post-attack reaction of the skinks and the unpalatability index . The post-attack reaction was ranked as follows: 0 if the mimic was eaten , one if it was eaten but the skink cleaned its mouth , and two if the skink spat out the mimic . To compare the relative capture frequencies of Lampona on the prey species a Cochran Q test was used . To test whether overall mortality of prey is related to its unpalatability we used a general linear model  of the sum of all probabilities of capture  by the three predators and unpalatability index . "
"However , most quantitative models of memory treat memories as static configurations , neglecting the temporal unfolding of the retrieval process . Here , we introduce a continuous attractor network model with a memory-dependent asymmetric component in the synaptic connectivity , which spontaneously breaks the equilibrium of the memory configurations and produces dynamic retrieval . The detailed analysis of the model with analytical calculations and numerical simulations shows that it can robustly retrieve multiple dynamical memories , and that this feature is largely independent of the details of its implementation . The spontaneous dynamics produced by the network is constrained to the low dimensional manifold codified in the connectivity matrix and spanned by the parameter x→ . The short-range interactions and the uniform inhibition enforced by the firing threshold h0 produce a localized 'bump' of activity in the manifold . This flow is illustrated in Figure 2  ,  and  , obtained with numerical simulation of a network encoding a one- , two- , or three-dimensional manifold , respectively . In the simulation , each neuron is assigned to a preferential firing location xi→ in the manifold to encode , and the plots show the activity of the network organized according to this disposition . The activity of the population clusters in a bump around a certain position at each time point  , and the bump shifts by effect of the asymmetric component of the interactions . While γ describes a feature of the synaptic interactions , determined during the learning phase and relatively fixed at the short timescales of retrieval , f can be instantaneously modulated during retrieval dynamics . Thus , the model predicts an interaction between the sparsity and the speed of the reactivation of a continuous memory sequence , with increased activity leading to faster replay . The dependence of the retrieval speed s on γ and f is well described by the approximate functional form  s⁢  =A⁢γ⁢fb⁢γ+c⁢f+d⁢γ⁢f+e⁢γ⁢f2 This dependence is shown in 2  , where the dots are the values obtained with numerical simulations and the full curves the fitted relationship . In the model presented , the asymmetry in the interactions is enforced uniformly along a single direction also for two- and three-dimensional manifolds , representing the case in which neural dynamics follows a forced trajectory along one dimension , but is free to move without energy costs along the others . However , the same mechanism can be used to produce one-dimensional trajectories embedded in low-dimensional manifolds , with the introduction of a positional dependence in the direction of the asymmetry  . In this case , an interesting problem is posed by the intersection of two trajectories embedded in the same manifold: is the network , during the retrieval of one trajectory , able to cross these intersections , or do they hinder dynamical retrieval ? The investigation of the full phenomenology of position-dependent asymmetric kernels with intersecting trajectories is beyond the scope of the present work , but we present in Figure 2  a numerical study of a minimal version of this problem , with two orthogonal trajectories ( Figure 2  , black arrows ) embedded in a 2D manifold and memorized simultaneously in the network . Intuitively , the ability of the network to retrieve crossing trajectories depends on the shape of the activity bump , which needs to be sufficiently elongated in the direction of retrieval for the successful crossing of the intersection . For this purpose , it is easier to formulate the problem in the continuum , and describe the population activity  by its profile V⁢  on the attractive manifold parametrized by the coordinate x→ , and the dynamical evolution as a discrete step map , equivalent to Equation 1 . V⁢  =g⁢+  h⁢  =∫𝑑x→′⁢K⁢  ⁢V⁢  -h0 The requirement of a rigid shift of population activity is then imposed by setting the activity at time t+1 to be equal at the activity at time t , but translated by an amount Δ⁢x→=τ⁢s⁢n→ , proportional to the speed s of the shift and in the direction n→ of the asymmetry in the connections . We will focus here , for the explicit derivation  , on the case of a one dimensional manifold with an exponential interaction kernel  K⁢  =e-|x-x′|+γ⁢sign⁢  ⁢e-|x-x′| In this case , the activity bump will take the form:  V⁢  ={C⁢ek1⁢x⁢cos⁡  +g⁢θ1-2⁢gif -R≤x≤R0if -R>x⁢ or ⁢x>R The parameters k1=k1⁢  and k2=k2⁢  determine the properties of the solution and they depend on the values of γ and speed s=Δ⁢x/τ . k1 is related to the asymmetry of the bump: in the limit case γ=0 , s=0 ( Figure 3  , first column ) k1=0 , and we recover the cosine solution of the symmetric kernel case studied in Battaglia and Treves , 1998 . The analytical solution of the model shows that the network performs dynamical retrieval for all values of the asymmetry strength γ , and that this parameter influences the retrieval speed and the shape of the activity bump . To further investigate the robustness of dynamical retrieval to parameter changes , we investigate with numerical simulations the behavior of the model with respect to another important parameter: the scale ξ of the anti-symmetric component . We run several dynamics of a network with interaction kernel given by  K⁢  =e-d+γ⁢sign⁢  ⁢e-d/ξvarying the parameters γ and ξ and measuring the retrieval speed , the peak value of the activity bump and its skeweness . γ and ξ affect the speed of the shift , the peak values of the activity distribution and the skewness of the activity bump , without hindering network functionality . This analysis shows that dynamical retrieval does not require any fine tuning of network parameters , but relies on the assumption of an exponential shape for the interaction kernel . Each of these simulations produced the same retrieval dynamics  , the only effect of the kernel shape being on the details of the shape of the activity bump  . This shows that the dynamic retrieval mechanism , much like standard continuous attractors , is robust with respect to the precise shape of the interactions . We described in detail the behavior of a neural network with asymmetric connectivity in the case of a single manifold encoded in the synaptic connectivity . For the network to behave as an autoassociative memory , however , it needs to be able to store and dynamically retrieve multiple manifolds . This is possible if we construct the interaction matrix Ji⁢j as the sum of the contributions from p different , independently encoded manifolds:  Ji⁢j=1N⁢∑μ=1pK⁢  Here , each xiμ represent the preferred firing location of neuron i in the manifold μ , and K is the same interaction kernel as in Equation 4 , containing a symmetric and anti-symmetric component . The resulting dynamics show multiple continuous attractors , corresponding to the stored manifolds . Given an initial configuration , the networks rapidly converges to the nearest  attractor , forming a coherent bump that then moves along the manifold as a consequence of the asymmetric component of the connectivity . This is illustrated in Figure 6 obtained with numerical simulations of a network encoding three different manifolds ( of dimension one in  , dimension two in  ) , and dynamically retrieving the first one . We selected a random subset of 15 of the 1000 cells of the network , and generated spike trains using a poisson point process with an instantaneous firing rate proportional to the activity level of each cell yielded by the retrieval dynamics at each time step , plus a small noise . If the same spikes are ordered according to the unretrieved manifolds , the pattern is lost  , indicating that the population activity is retrieving the dynamical structure of the first manifold specifically . Multiple dynamic manifolds can be memorized and retrieved by the network , with different speeds . Figure 7  shows the result of the numerical simulation of a network with five different one-dimensional manifold stored in its connectivity matrix , each encoded with a different value of γ  . These manifold are dynamically retrieved by the network at different speeds , depending on the corresponding γ . Different memories stored in the same neural population can interact with each other , building more retrieval schemes in which , for example , the retrieval of a memory cues the retrieval of another one . To investigate this possibility , we have incorporated in the model a mechanism for interaction between memories , in which the endpoint of a dynamical , one-dimensional manifold elicits the activation of the start point of a different one  . The bottom row shows the evolution of the retrieved position , given in each manifold by the center of mass:  <x>μ⁢  =1N⁢∑ixiμ⁢Vi⁢  The dynamic runs across the retrieved manifold , from its beginning to its end , then jumps to next one and repeats the process . This sequential dynamic goes beyond the simple cued retrieval of independent memories that is the focus of most autoassociative memory models , and provides an example of a hybrid computational system , encoding both continuous and discrete features . The memory load α=p/C crucially determines the behavior of the system: when α is increased above a certain threshold value αc , the network is not able to retrieve any of the stored memories , falling instead into a disordered state . To estimate the storage capacity of dynamic continuous attractors , and to investigate how it is impacted by the presence of asymmetric connections , we proceed along two complementary paths . In the case a fully connected network , where the analytical tools developed for equilibrium systems are not applicable , we take advantage of the fact that numerical simulations can be effective for the estimation of the capacity , since the number of connections per neuron C  coincides with the number of neurons , minus one . In both the fully connected and the highly diluted case we study the dependence of the capacity on two important parameters: the map sparsity , that is the ratio between the width of the connectivity kernel  and the size L of the stored manifolds , and the asymmetry strength γ . Note that the map sparsity 1/L is different from the activity sparsity f: the former is a feature of the stored memories , that we will treat as a control parameter in the following analysis; the latter is a feature of the network dynamics , and its value will be fixed by an optimization procedure in the calculation of the maximal capacity . The average square activity y , entering the noise term , reads  y=g2L⁢∫𝑑x⁢∫+D⁢z⁢ ( h⁢  -h0 ) 2 Introducing the rescaled variables  w=-h0ρ  v⁢  =m1⁢  ρ And the functions  𝒩⁢  =x⁢Φ⁢  +σ⁢   ℳ⁢  =  ⁢Φ⁢  +x⁢σ⁢  where Φ⁢  and σ⁢  are the Gaussian cumulative and the Gaussian probability mass function respectively , we can rewrite the fixed-point equation as  v⁢  =g⁢𝒩⁢ ( ∫𝑑x′⁢K⁢  ⁢v⁢  +w )  y=ρ2⁢g2⁢∫d⁢xL⁢ℳ⁢ ( ∫𝑑x′⁢K⁢  ⁢v⁢  +w ) Substituting Equation 28 in the expression for the noise variance 19 we obtain  1α=g2⁢L⁢⟨⟨K2⟩⟩⁢∫𝑑x⁢ℳ⁢ ( ∫𝑑x′⁢K⁢  ⁢v⁢  +w ) If we are able to solve Equation 27 for the rescaled activity profile v⁢  , we can use Equation 29 to calculate α . Here we present the results for the case of one-dimensional manifolds and interactions given by the exponential kernel of Equation 36 . There is therefore a wide range of values of asymmetry and map sparsity in which a large number of dynamic manifolds can be stored and retrieved . We consider a simulation to have performed a successful retrieval if the global overlap  mμ=1N2⁢∑i≠jVi⁢Vj⁢KS⁢  that quantifies the coherence of the activity with map μ , is large for one map μ*  and low in all others maps μ≠μ* . Repeating this procedure for a range of values of γ and L , we obtain the plots shown in Figure 8  , for networks encoding one dimensional and two dimensional dynamical memories . This shows that moderate values of asymmetry can be beneficial for the storage of multiple continuous attractors , a non-trivial phenomenon that may be crucial for the memory capacity of biological networks . In particular this suggests that the natural tendency of the neural activity to show a rich spontaneous dynamics not only does not hinder the possibility for multiple memories to coexist in the same population , but can be a crucial ingredient for the correct functioning of memory mechanisms . The results presented show how a continuous attractor neural network with memory-dependent asymmetric components in the connectivity can function as a dynamic memory . Our model is simple enough to be treated analytically , robustly produces dynamic retrieval for a large range of the relevant parameters and shows a storage capacity that is comparable to – and in some cases higher than – the capacity for static continuous attractors . The analytical solution of the single manifold case shows that the interaction between the strength of the asymmetry and the velocity of the shift can be modulated by global features of the network activity such as its sparsity . The quantitative analysis of the learning process needed to effectively memorize low-dimensional dynamic manifolds is an interesting open direction , which goes beyond the scope of this work . Our analysis shows that the simple introduction of an aysmmetric Hebbian plasticity rule is sufficient to describe a dynamic memory able to store and retrieve multiple manifolds with different speeds , and it can incorporate interactions between them , producing the chained retrieval of a sequence of continuous memories . The central result of the paper is the quantification of the storage capacity for dynamic continuous attractors , that we find to be large in magnitude , only mildly impacted by the asymmetry in diluted networks , and even higher than the capacity for static attractors in fully connected networks with moderate degrees of asymmetry . The authors considered the case of an external signal driving the activity bump along the attractor , in a network of binary neurons , and proceeded to calculate the storage capacity with several assumptions that allowed to model the interference of multiple maps as thermal noise . Together these results suggest that the introduction of a temporal structure is compatible with the functioning of autoassociative memory in recurrent networks , and they open the way to the use of attractor models for the quantitative analysis of complex memory phenomena , such as hippocampal replay and memory schemata . The model we propose suggests that the tendency of the activity to move in the neural population is a natural feature of networks with asymmetric connectivity , when the asymmetry is organized along a direction in a low dimensional manifold , and that static memories could be the exception rather than the rule . However , the simple case of two intersecting trajectories embedded in a 2D map , analysed here , provides a proof of concept that several intersecting trajectories can be correctly retrieved , provided that the activity bump is sufficiently elongated in the direction of the trajectory . The dynamical retrieval of the model generalizes , in the framework of attractor networks , the idea of cognitive maps , incorporating a temporal organization in the low-dimensional manifold encoding the structure of the memory . The use of the present model to describe memory schemata will require further steps , such as an account of the interaction between hippocampus and neocortex , and the expansion of the mechanism describing the transition between different dynamical memories . Nevertheless , the idea of dynamic retrieval of a continuous manifold and the integration of the model presented here with effective models of cortical memory networks  open promising perspectives . Finally , the full analytical description of a densely connected asymmetric attractor network is a challenge that remains open , and can yield valuable insights on the workings of the neural circuits underlying memory . "
"Here , we investigate the emergence of tissue-scale patterns of cell shape and mechanical tissue stress in the Drosophila wing imaginal disc during larval development . Using quantitative analysis of the cellular dynamics , we reveal a pattern of radially oriented cell rearrangements that is coupled to the buildup of tangential cell elongation . We present a continuum theory showing that this pattern of cell morphology and tissue stress can arise via self-organization of a mechanical feedback that couples cell polarity to active cell rearrangements . For example , spatial patterns of cell morphology emerge during growth of the Drosophila larval imaginal discs , which are precursors of adult tissues  . Here , we investigate tissue-scale patterning of cell morphology in the Drosophila larval wing imaginal disc , which has a geometry that is ideal for studying spatial patterns of epithelial cell morphology . We focus specifically on the cell shape patterns in the central ‘pouch’ region , which is the precursor of the adult wing blade . Cells near the center have smaller cell areas and are more isotropic in shape , whereas cells near the periphery have larger cell areas and are elongated tangentially  . Cell shape has been correlated with mechanical stress: tangentially oriented bonds of elongated cells in the periphery are under higher tension than radially oriented bonds  . It has been previously proposed that this pattern of cell morphology in the wing pouch could stem from differential proliferation: if the center grows faster than the rest , the resulting area pressure could stretch peripheral cells tangentially  . However , it has since been shown that cell rearrangements occur  , which could relax stress patterns once growth has become uniform . Furthermore , stress patterns may even relax during homogeneous growth in the absence of cell rearrangements  . Thus , it remains unclear how cell morphology patterns generated early by differential growth could be maintained through later stages , and alternative mechanisms for the establishment of these patterns must be considered . Here , we measure the spatial patterns of cell morphology , cell divisions , and cell rearrangements during the middle of the third larval instar  . We quantify the pattern of tangential cell elongation and show that it becomes stronger over time , even though growth is spatially uniform and cell rearrangements are frequent . Strikingly , this change in tangential cell elongation is coupled to a radially biased pattern of cell neighbor exchanges . Using a physical model of tissue dynamics , we show that active patterning of radial cell neighbor exchanges can account for the observed morphology patterns in the absence of differential growth . Cell morphology patterns in the wing disc have been previously analyzed using static images  . However , relating cell morphology patterns to patterns of growth , cell divisions , and cell rearrangements requires dynamic data . To quantify cell morphology , we averaged apical cell area and cell elongation locally in space , using data from five wing discs , and in time using ∼2hr intervals . Cell elongation is characterized by a tensor Q , which defines an axis and a strength of elongation and is represented by bars in Figure 1C  . We then introduce a polar coordinate system at the center with the radial coordinate r and present the radial projection Qrr of the cell elongation tensor as a color code in Figure 1C  . This figure highlights the pattern of tangential cell elongation , with cells elongating on average perpendicular to the radial axis  . The spatial maps of cell morphology reveal that both cell area and cell elongation magnitude are largest at the periphery and decrease toward the center  . We quantified this radial gradient in cell area and observe that cell area ranges from ∼3−7μm2 when moving toward the periphery  . We also observe a radial gradient in cell elongation starting from Qrr≈0 at r=10 μm and extending to about Qrr≈-0 . As previously proposed , differential growth can generate such patterns of cell elongation  . Cell division rate has been previously used as an indicator of growth; however , tissue growth actually results from a combination of cell division , cell area changes , and cell extrusions  . In summary , we quantified cell morphology patterns in mid-third instar wing explants during live imaging . We quantify the radial gradients in cell area and cell elongation existing outside of the DV boundary region and show that they strengthen in time in the absence of differential growth , raising the question of what mechanism underlies the persistence of these cell morphology patterns during mid to late stages of wing growth . To directly relate the observed cell morphology patterns with cell rearrangements , we next analyzed the spatial patterns in cellular contributions to tissue shear  . Tissue shear can be decomposed into contributions from cell divisions , cell elongation changes , T1 transitions , and so-called correlation effects  . Here , correlation effects result mainly from correlated fluctuations in cell elongation and cell rotation  . In addition , the patterns of cell elongation changes and T1 transitions can be described as a superposition of a uniformly oriented pattern and an approximately radial or tangential pattern  . The radial component of tissue shear is small , and cell divisions do not contribute to radial tissue shear . In contrast , we observe a pronounced buildup of a tangential pattern of cell elongation accompanied by a radial pattern of T1 transitions and of correlation effects . As shown above  , tissue area growth does not have a radial gradient and thus does not contribute to the increase in tangential cell elongation that we observe at this time  . Furthermore , we observe numerous T1 transitions  , and their radially biased orientation increases rather than relaxes tangential cell elongation  . Thus , we are not observing the relaxation of a pattern of cell elongation caused by early differential growth . Rather , our data support a model whereby a radially patterned morphogenetic cue actively biases the direction of T1 transitions and consequently the complementary pattern of cell shape changes . We next apply a biophysical model to determine whether radially patterned T1 transitions could account for the observed cell morphology patterns in the wing disc . Active anisotropic force-generating processes that bias cell rearrangements in the tissue , such as polarization of the actomyosin cytoskeleton , are captured by a nematic cell polarity q , defined by a magnitude and an orientation axis . We propose that such a patterning cue leads to the radially oriented pattern of T1 transitions we observe in the wing disc . In our model , we consider the spatial patterns of tissue shear rate v~ , the patterns of cell shape Q , and the patterns of cell rearrangements R , which have nematic symmetry and are represented by traceless symmetric tensors that describe the magnitude and orientation . Tissue shear is defined as a velocity gradient tensor that results from a combination of cell shape changes and cell rearrangements  :  v~=DQDt+R Here , DQ/Dt is a co-rotational time derivative of Q , and the shear due to cell rearrangements R includes contributions from T1 transitions , cell divisions and extrusions , and also correlation effects . Tissue material properties are described by constitutive equations for the tissue shear stress σ~ and the shear due to cell rearrangements R  :  σ~=2KQ+ζq  R= 1τQ + λ q Here , the shear stress tensor σ~ is the sum of the elastic and active stress . The elastic stress is associated with cell elongation Q and characterized by the shear elastic modulus K . The shear rate due to cell rearrangements R given by Equation 3 is driven in part by shear stress , and therefore depends on the cell elongation Q , and in part by active processes that are oriented by the nematic cell polarity q  . τ is a relaxation time for cell rearrangements over which elastic stresses are relaxed , and λ is the rate of cell rearrangements driven by cell polarity . Radial tissue shear is small compared to that associated with cell shape changes and T1 transitions during our observed time window  . In this case , cell elongation becomes:  Qrr=-τλ qrr Thus , we find that the steady state cell elongation pattern is a result of cell rearrangements that are oriented by the cell polarity cue q  . Can the radial pattern of T1 transitions defined by q also explain the observed radial profile of cell area  ? We consider tissue area pressure:  P=−K¯ ln  where P is the difference in pressure from a reference value , K¯ is tissue area compressibility , a is the average cell area , and a0 is a reference cell area . To calculate the cell area profile , we again approximate the wing pouch as a radially symmetric disc . In the radially symmetric geometry , force balance can be expressed as:  ∂rP=∂rσ~rr+2rσ~rr A radial profile of pressure determined from this equation implies a radial pattern of cell area via Equation 5  . To test this implication , we first quantify the radial profile of cell elongation Qrr to estimate the profile of qrr using Equation 4  . From this analysis , we conclude that the cell morphology patterns observed in the wing disc could be generated by radially biased cell rearrangements . Later , we address the potential molecular origin of the cell polarity cue orienting the cell rearrangements . Our model predicts a stress pattern in the wing disc that results from active processes that are radially oriented by a cell polarity cue . To relate measurements of tissue stress to cell elongation , we calculate the average cell elongation in the ablated region before it is cut  . We focus hereafter on the radial patterns of elongation and stress outside of the DV boundary region . The relationship between cell elongation and stress normalized by the elastic modulus has a slope 1 in the absence of polarity-driven stress  . We write the shear stress defined in Equation 2 in terms of cell elongation and cell rearrangements , eliminating the orientational cue qrr using Equation 3 . This finding is consistent with the observed cell area profile , with smaller cell areas toward the center  . In sum , we find a stress profile in the wing disc that is consistent with the observed measurements of both cell elongation and area . In our model , the radial orientation cue is required to generate the observed patterns of cell morphology , cell rearrangement , and tissue stress . In the wing , these systems form tissue-scale polarity patterns during growth  and are required to position the hairs and cuticle ridges on the adult wing  . To determine whether either of these pathways could function as the orientational cue described in our model , we analyzed cell elongation patterns after their removal . Nonetheless , the pattern of tangential cell elongation persists to the end of larval development  . Using scaled coordinates , we find that the radial profiles of cell elongation in ft+d RNAi and control wings are similar  . In the pk mutant , the region of tangential cell elongation extends even further into the center than in control wings . We conclude that the tangential cell elongation pattern persists in the absence of either PCP pathway . This result excludes these pathways as orienting cues for the cell elongation patterns . In previous sections , we have considered the orientational cue to be provided by a cell polarity system that is independently patterned . Here , we show that introducing mechanosensitive feedback to the model of tissue mechanics can give rise to spontaneous emergence of the cell polarity cue  . Mechanosensitivity is incorporated into our model of tissue mechanics through a dynamic equation for the orientational cue q that becomes stress-dependent:  dqdt=−1τqq−μσ~−α|q|2q+D∇2q Here , τq is a relaxation timescale for q , μ is a mechanosensitive feedback strength , the coefficient α>0 ensures stability , and D is a coupling strength locally aligning orientational cues . By this mechanism , the anisotropic cue introduced earlier in our model can be locally generated by mechanosensitive self-organization and does not require the existence of pre-patterned polarity cues . To discuss cell morphology profiles in the wing disc , we consider a simplified tissue model with radial symmetry , where the rate of radial cell rearrangement Rrr is given  and the cell shape pattern and tissue stress pattern are calculated . Using a fit of cell elongation to the experimental data , we find a set of parameter values that accounts for the observed cell elongation patterns in the wing disc  . From this cell elongation pattern also follows the cell area pattern  . We conclude that our mechanosensitive model can account for the radial pattern of cell morphology in the wing disc . We performed RNAi targeting MyoVI in the wing pouch using nub-Gal4 and evaluated cell morphology at the end of larval development  . In addition , our model predicts that such reduction of cell elongation would result in an increase of cell area in the wing  . In contrast to situations such as germband extension , where T1 transitions exhibit clearly discernible patterns , the patterns of T1 transitions in the wing disc have been elusive . We revealed these patterns by quantifying the nematics of T1 transitions and cell shape changes using the previously-described triangle method  and then quantified them with radial averaging  . In this way , we revealed that a radial pattern of T1 transitions is linked to a tangential pattern of cell elongation . Given this radial pattern of T1 cell rearrangements , the observed cell morphology pattern follows from a continuum tissue model based on a radially oriented nematic cell polarity field  . The polarity-oriented radial T1s create a cell shape pattern with corresponding patterns of tissue stress and tissue area pressure . This analysis raised the question of which nematic cell polarity cues guide the cell rearrangement and cell elongation patterns . However , we found that neither of the two known PCP pathways in the wing are required for the observed tangential cell elongation patterns  . Cell polarity cues can emerge via mechanosensitive feedback by transforming mechanical cues into chemical anisotropies . We introduce this mechanosensitive feedback in our continuum theory , which quantitatively describes the emergence of patterns of cell shape and cell rearrangements . This model can account for the observed patterns of cell area and cell elongation in the wing disc and predicts that the reduction of mechanosensitivity will result in reduced cell elongation . We find a clear phenotype of reduced cell elongation and increased cell areas in the center region , as predicted by our model . In the spatially resolved model , which includes the term coupling polarity orientation of neighboring cells  , a polarity pattern can be induced even below μc by imposing polarity at the tissue boundaries . Thus , the residual pattern of cell elongation that we observe after removal of MyoVI in the wing pouch could be due to polarity existing outside of this perturbed region . Nevertheless , given the clear phenotype that is fully consistent with our model , we propose that the mechanosensitive feedback mechanism is a significant determinant of the cell shape patterns in the wing pouch . Indeed , it has been shown that Myosin II  localizes to long cell boundaries in the wing  , corresponding to a nematic polarity aligned with the nematic cell polarity q . Precisely how the actin-myosin cytoskeleton is affected by MyoVI in this system and how these cytoskeletal elements together guide cell rearrangements in response to anisotropic tissue stresses and cell shape changes remain open questions for future research . In summary , we used the Drosophila wing disc to identify a mechanism by which tissue morphology can arise from the self-organization of a mechanical feedback coupling cell polarity to active cell rearrangements . This mechanism is general and could be employed in other tissues and organisms to generate patterns of cell shape and cell area . "
"HIV-1 Vpr is necessary for maximal HIV infection and spread in macrophages . Vpr counteracts a previously unknown macrophage-specific restriction factor that targets and reduces the expression of HIV Env . Here , we report that the macrophage mannose receptor  , is a restriction factor targeting Env in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages . Vpr acts synergistically with HIV Nef to target distinct stages of the MR biosynthetic pathway and dramatically reduce MR expression . Silencing MR or deleting mannose residues on Env rescues Env expression in HIV-1-infected macrophages lacking Vpr . However , we also show that disrupting interactions between Env and MR reduces initial infection of macrophages by cell-free virus . Together these results reveal a Vpr-Nef-Env axis that hijacks a host mannose-MR response system to facilitate infection while evading MR’s normal role , which is to trap and destroy mannose-expressing pathogens . Studies using human lymphoid tissue  , which are rich in both T cells and macrophages , have found that loss of Vpr decreases virus production  but only when the virus strain used is capable of efficiently infecting macrophages  . However , in mononuclear phagocytes vpr-null virus in which Vpr protein is provided by trans-complementation in the producer cells replicates poorly compared to wild-type virus  , indicating that Vpr’s role in the HIV replication cycle continues into late stages . Previous work by our group demonstrated that Vpr counteracts an unidentified macrophage-specific restriction factor that targets Env and Env-containing virions for lysosomal degradation  . A follow up study demonstrated that by increasing steady state levels of Env , Vpr increases formation of virological synapses between infected MDM and autologous uninfected T cells , enhancing HIV infection of T cells  . This finding helps explain the paradoxical observations that Vpr is required for maximal infection of T cells in vivo  but numerous studies have shown Vpr only marginally impacts infection of pure T cell cultures in vitro  . Our goal in the current study was to identify and characterize the myeloid restriction factor targeting Env that is counteracted by Vpr . Some viral proteins , including HIV-1 Env , evade mannose trimming  and retain enough high-mannose to bind MR  . There is evidence that HIV-1 proteins Nef and Tat decrease expression of MR based on studies performed in monocyte derived macrophages  and the monocytic U937 cell line , respectively  . Nef dysregulates MR trafficking using an SDXXLΦ motif in MR’s cytoplasmic tail  , which is similar to the sequence in CD4’s tail that Nef uses to remove it from the cell surface  . Here we confirm that Nef reduces MR expression in primary human MDM , although in our system , the effect of Nef alone was relatively small . In contrast , we report that co-expression of Vpr and Nef dramatically reduced MR expression . In the absence of both Vpr and Nef , MR levels normalized indicating that Tat did not play a significant , independent role in MR downmodulation . Deleting mannose residues on Env or silencing MR alleviated mannose-dependent interactions between MR and Env and reduced the requirement for Vpr . Although the post-infection interactions between MR and Env reduced Env levels and inhibited viral release , we provide evidence that these same interactions were beneficial for initial infection of MDM . Together these results reveal that mannose residues on Env and the accessory proteins Nef and Vpr are needed for HIV to utilize and then disable an important component of the myeloid innate response against pathogens intended to thwart infection . Because we had previously determined that Vpr functions in macrophages to counteract a macrophage specific restriction factor that targets Env , we reasoned that Env-binding proteins selectively expressed by macrophages were potential candidate restriction factors . To determine whether any factors fitting this description were targeted by Vpr , we cultured macrophages under conditions that achieve a saturating infection by both wild-type and Vpr-null mutant viruses  . We found that mannose receptor  , which is highly expressed on macrophages and has been previously shown to bind Env  , was significantly decreased by wild-type HIV 89 . Relative expression of known restriction factors GBP5 and IFITM3 varied in infected MDM from multiple donors  , but unlike MR they were not consistently reduced in the wild-type condition , indicating they are not targeted by Vpr . To confirm the effect of Vpr on Env during HIV infection of primary human macrophages in which MR was downmodulated , we performed quantitative western blot analysis . As shown in Figure 1E and F , we confirmed that amounts of Vpr sufficient for MR downmodulation were also sufficient for stabilizing expression of Env  . Compiled data from nine donors clearly demonstrated results that were similar to our prior publication  ; under conditions of matched infection in which there was no significant difference in HIV Gag pr55 levels between wild-type and vpr-null infections , all three forms of Env were significantly more abundant in the wild-type infection  . Because an earlier report indicated that Nef decreases surface expression of MR  , we asked whether Nef was playing a role in MR downmodulation in our systems . Because HIVs lacking Vpr and Nef spread too inefficiently in MDM to observe effects on host proteins by western blot analysis , we utilized a replication defective HIV with a GFP marker  to allow measurement of MR expression via flow cytometry following single-round transduction . Under these conditions , we found that MR expression was dramatically reduced in a subset of GFP+ cells when both Vpr and Nef were expressed  . Both Nef and Vpr contributed to MR downmodulation; loss of function mutation in either Vpr or Nef reduced the severity of MR downmodulation similarly , and there was no statistical difference between MR levels in macrophages expressing either Vpr or Nef alone  . These results indicate that both Vpr and Nef are required for maximal MR downmodulation in HIV-infected macrophages and that neither alone is sufficient . The interaction between Vpr and DCAF1 can be disrupted through a Vpr mutation  that inhibits many Vpr-dependent functions , including reversal of Env degradation in macrophages  . To determine whether this mutant is defective at MR downmodulation , we generated the mutation in the NL4-3 ∆GPE-GFP parent  , confirmed expression in transfected 293T cells  and tested the effect of the mutation on MR levels in macrophages . As expected , we found that in transduced MDM the vpr-Q65R mutant behaves similarly to vpr-null  . The differences in MR downmodulation we observed using this system were not due to variations in multiplicity of infection of the different viral constructs as MDM transduced with the mutant viral constructs had roughly similar transduction rates as the parental construct  but demonstrated less MR downmodulation  . To determine whether the relatively modest effect of Nef alone on MR levels was due to using HIV to deliver Nef as compared to an adenoviral vector delivery system used in a prior publication  , we repeated the experiment using an adenoviral vector expressing Nef . These experiments confirmed that levels of Nef sufficient to downmodulate the HIV receptor , CD4 , on nearly all MDM in the culture achieved only modest effects on MR in a subset of cells  similar to what was observed using the HIV reporter construct  . Thus , Nef and Vpr have modest but significant effects on MR when expressed individually , however the combined effects of both proteins can achieve nearly complete downmodulation at least in a subset of infected cells . While the effect of Nef has been previously reported and found to be due to disruption of MR intracellular trafficking  , the effect of Vpr on MR is a novel observation . Vpr is known to target cellular proteins involved in DNA repair pathways for proteasomal degradation via interactions with Vpr binding protein  . To determine whether Vpr directly targets MR using a similar strategy , we co-transfected NL4-3 ∆GPE-GFP or a vpr-null derivative with expression vectors encoding an UNG2-FLAG fusion protein or MR  in 293T cells . Because MR expression in this system is controlled by a heterologous CMV promoter; the lack of effect by Vpr suggested its action may depend on MR’s native promoter . To examine this , we assessed transcriptional activity in primary human MDM transduced with the wild-type or Vpr-null reporter virus  using cells isolated based on GFP expression  . We found that the MR gene  was consistently reduced in cells transduced by vpr-competent virus compared to cells transduced by vpr-null virus  . To determine whether the striking downmodulation of MR we observed with expression of both Nef and Vpr affected viral spread in MR+ macrophages , we generated additional mutations in HIV-1 89 . The defect in spread was caused in part by diminished virion release , which we previously showed occurred in the absence of Vpr  ; MDM infected with the HIV mutants released less Gag p24 even after adjusting for the frequency of infected cells  . To determine whether combined effects of Nef and Vpr on MR expression affected Env restriction , we assessed Env levels in primary human MDM infected with each construct . Remarkably , we found that the vpr-nef-null double mutant , which retains near normal MR levels , exhibited the greatest defect in Env expression  . In sum , Vpr and Nef-mediated downmodulation of MR correlated inversely with Env levels , consistent with MR being the previously described but unidentified HIV restriction factor that targets Env for lysosomal degradation in macrophages and is counteracted by Vpr  . Combined effects of Nef on MR and other Env binding proteins including CD4  and chemokine receptors  may also play a role in stabilization of Env . A particularly dense mannose-containing structure on Env , known as the mannose patch , may mediate interactions between Env and MR . This structure is present on all HIV Env proteins that require Vpr for stability in macrophages  . To determine whether swapping a limited portion of YU-2 env into NL4-3 alleviated the requirement for Vpr , we examined Env expression and virion release in primary human MDM infected with these viruses . Because the parental NL4-3 virus required pseudotyping with a macrophage-tropic Env for entry and was unable to spread in MDM , all infections were treated with entry inhibitors AMD3100 and maraviroc starting at 48 hr after inoculation and maintained throughout the culture period to block subsequent rounds of infection . Consistent with our hypothesis that YU-2 Env lacked determinants necessary for the restriction that was alleviated by Vpr , we observed that wild-type NL4-3 Env but not chimeric NL4-3 envYU2 required Vpr for maximal expression  . These results are consistent with a model in which YU-2 env confers resistance to the effects of MR due to the absence of the mannose-rich structure on the YU-2 Env glycoprotein . To more directly assess the role of mannose in restricting expression of Env in HIV-1 infected primary human MDM , we engineered a version of 89 . To confirm that mutation of N230 and N339 disrupted the mannose patch on Env , we assayed the ability of 2G12 , which recognizes epitopes in the mannose patch  to neutralize wild-type and mutant Env . However , somewhat unexpectedly , we found that HIV containing the N230D N339E Env substitutions was approximately 40% less infectious to primary human macrophages expressing MR than the wild-type parental virus  . This macrophage-specific difference in infectivity suggested that mannose on Env may facilitate initial infection through interactions with MR , which is highly expressed on differentiated macrophages . To examine this possibility further , we asked whether soluble mannan , which competitively inhibits MR interactions with mannose containing glycans  , was inhibitory to HIV infection of macrophages . 6 ∆env pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus G-protein Env  which has only two N-linked glycosylation sites , both of which contain complex-type rather than high-mannose glycans  . This was specific to HIV Env because mannan did not inhibit infection by HIV lacking env and pseudotyped with heterologous VSV-G Env . Interestingly , mannan also inhibited baseline macrophage infection by mannose-deficient Env  , indicating that N230D N339E substitutions did not completely abrogate glycans on Env that are beneficial to initial infection . In sum , our results demonstrate that interactions with mannose binding receptors are advantageous for initial HIV infection of macrophages and that the glycans remaining on Env N230D N339E retain some ability to bind glycan receptors on macrophages that facilitate infection . While interactions between high-mannose residues on Env and MR were advantageous for viral entry , we hypothesized that they interfered with intracellular Env trafficking and were deleterious to egress of Env-containing virions in the absence of Vpr and/or Nef . To test this , we examined virion release and Env expression by HIVs encoding the mannose-deficient Env N230D N339E in the presence or absence of Vpr . In a spreading infection of MDM , we found that virus expressing mannose-deficient Env had a reduced requirement for Vpr for maximal virus release compared with the parental wild-type virus  . In addition , in single-round infections of MDM , the mannose-deficient Env had a reduced requirement for both Nef and Vpr  . Single round infection assays cultured for ten days were used to assess the vpr-nef double mutant because depletion of mannose on Env did not rescue spread under conditions that were most comparable to our ten day spreading infections . The defect in spread is likely due to pleiotropic effects of Nef that disrupt interference by the HIV receptors , CD4 , CXCR4 and CCR5  combined with the reduced infectivity of the mannose deficient Env . Finally , we asked whether the mannose-deficient Env had increased stability in primary human MDM lacking Vpr and/or Nef by western blot analysis . We found that the Env mutant  was more stable in the absence of Vpr  and Nef  once differences in infection frequency were accounted for by matching pr55 expression in the dilution series . These data provide strong support for a model in which MR restricts Env expression via direct interaction with high-mannose residues on Env and this restriction is counteracted by Vpr and Nef . To directly test the hypothesis that MR is a restriction factor in MDM that is counteracted by Vpr , we examined the effect of MR silencing on Env expression in HIV-infected MDM lacking Vpr . These results support the conclusion that the Env restriction observed in the absence of Vpr is dependent on expression of MR . Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated that restriction of Env in primary human MDM disrupted formation of virological synapses and cell-to-cell spread of HIV from infected MDM to T cells  . To expand on these findings , we measured Vpr-dependent HIV-1 spread from primary human MDM to autologous T cells , as diagrammed in Figure 7—figure supplement 1A . Co-cultured cells were stained for CD3 to distinguish T cells and CD14 to distinguish MDM as shown in Figure 7—figure supplement 1B , accounting for differences in autofluorescent background in the two cell types by using isotype controls  We confirmed our prior finding that Vpr enhances HIV-1 89 . To determine whether Vpr stimulated spread from macrophages to T cells by counteracting MR restriction , we measured spread to T cells from macrophages in which MR had been silenced as diagrammed in Figure 7B . We found that silencing MR reduced the difference between wild type and Vpr-null infected macrophage spread to T cells from 7-fold  to 2-fold   . These results provide strong evidence that MR is the previously described but unidentified restriction factor in macrophages that reduces HIV spread from macrophages to T lymphocytes in the absence of Vpr . We previously reported that Env and Env-containing virions are degraded in macrophage lysosomes in the absence of Vpr , impairing virion release , virological synapse formation , and spread of HIV to T cells  . Moreover , this requirement for Vpr was conferred to heterokaryons comprised of macrophages and permissive cells , suggesting the existence of a previously unidentified host restriction factor that is counteracted by Vpr in macrophages  . Results presented here clearly define mannose receptor  as the HIV restriction factor counteracted by Vpr in macrophages to enhance viral dissemination . We provide strong evidence that Env mannosylation is required for restriction of Env and virion release in macrophages in the absence of Vpr , and that MR silencing relieves a requirement for Vpr to overcome this restriction . Moreover , we confirm and extend a prior report that Nef also acts to downmodulate MR from the macrophage cell surface  and demonstrate that Vpr and Nef cooperate to counteract MR in an additive fashion through independent mechanisms . In contrast to results we report here , the prior study observed effects on virions that were Env-independent and did not examine effects of Vpr on MR . In primary macrophages , Vpr-sensitive virion restriction only occurs when virions contain Env  and genetic changes in the env open reading frame – especially those that alter N-linked glycosylation sites – critically affect the requirement for Vpr . The effect of MR on Env and Env-containing virion release reported here helps explain previous observations that primate lentivirus infection reduces MR activity in humans  and monkeys  . By confirming and extending our prior finding that Vpr-mediated stabilization of Env promotes macrophage to T cell spread  we also provide an explanation for how Vpr increases infection of human lymphoid tissue ex vivo  , which contain macrophages and T cells in a highly physiological , three-dimensional environment . As Nef had already been shown to reduce MR surface expression  , the observation that HIV encodes a second protein , Vpr , to reduce MR expression was unanticipated , but not unprecedented; other host proteins are known to be affected by more than one lentiviral accessory protein . The HIV receptor , CD4 , is simultaneously targeted by Vpu , Nef and Env in HIV-1  and tetherin is alternately targeted by Vpu , Nef , or Env in different strains of primate lentiviruses  . Nef’s activity against CXCR4 , CCR5 , and MR presumably has the same ultimate purpose as its activity against CD4 , namely to stabilize Env , enhance virion release and prevent superinfection of the producer cell  . The impact of these deleterious interactions is clearly demonstrated by the profound loss of Env we observed in HIV-infected macrophages lacking both Vpr and Nef . The need for both Vpr and Nef to counteract MR may be explained by the high level of MR expression , estimated at 100 , 000 copies per macrophage  . Nef was shown to alter MR trafficking  and we show Vpr inhibits MR transcription . In addition , our results suggest that maximal MR downmodulation is time-dependent in macrophages , which have the capacity to survive while infected for weeks; western blot analysis of whole cell lysates from saturated , ten-day infected cultures achieved a more striking reduction than was observed by flow cytometric analysis of five day cultures of macrophages infected with non-spreading viruses expressing GFP . In sharp contrast to the effect we observed in MDM , Vpr did not affect MR protein levels when MR was expressed via a heterologous promoter in the 293T cell line , which is derived from human embryonic kidney cells and is not a natural target of HIV . The cell type selectivity in these experiments is likely due to differences in the promoters driving MR expression , however , we cannot rule out the existence of other macrophage specific pathways required to recreate the effect of Vpr on MR . Our findings also implicate the Vpr binding protein VprBP/DCAF1  , a component of the cellular DCAF1-DDB1-CUL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex , in downmodulation of MR by Vpr . This complex is required for most of the known functions of Vpr , including: disruption of the cell cycle , disruption of cellular DNA repair pathways in dividing cells  and transcriptional inhibition of type I interferons in response to infection in macrophage cultures  . Deleterious interactions between MR and Env that are alleviated by Vpr and Nef , likely occur along the secretory pathway and continue at the cell surface . This is based on previously published work showing that Env-containing virions are retained at the cell surface and targeted to lysosomes in macrophages lacking Vpr  . Because Env processing occurs via furin-mediated cleavage in the trans-Golgi network  , the effect on unprocessed Env provides evidence that in addition to acting at the surface , MR likely also interacts with Env along the secretory pathway prior to its arrival and processing in the TGN . MR’s interaction with Env appears to be mediated by the unusually high density of N linked glycosylation sites on Env that retain high-mannose glycans , which is a known pathogen-associated molecular pattern  . Moreover , the capacity of Vpr and Nef to mitigate the effect of detrimental intracellular interactions during viral egress limits the negative impact of retaining high-mannose on Env . Because MR has both positive and negative effects on infection , the interpretation of some experiments examining spreading infection in the setting of MR silencing or mutations in Env that reduced mannose content were complex to interpret . This is strong evidence supporting our model that Vpr alleviates deleterious interactions caused by the Env mannose patch . 6 , T cell infection by the transmitter/founder virus REJO was enhanced by co-culture with MDM , and spread from MDM to T cells was enhanced by Vpr . The strong selective pressure to retain Vpr despite its limited effect on T cell-only cultures indicates there is more to learn about the role of Vpr , macrophages and T/F viruses in HIV transmission and pathogenesis . The proteins gp160 , gp120 , gp41 , Nef , Vpr , GFP , Env-GFP , STING , GBP5 , and IFITM3 were visualized using HRP-conjugated secondary antibodies on film . 6 and YU-2 Env gp41  , NL4-3 Env gp41  , Vpr  , GFP  , Nef  , FLAG  , STING  , GBP5  , and IFITM3  . "
"The balance between self-renewal and differentiation of neural progenitor cells  dictates neurogenesis and proper brain development . We found that the RNA- binding protein Sam68  is strongly expressed in neurogenic areas of the neocortex and supports the self-renewing potential of mouse NPCs . Knockout of Khdrbs1 constricted the pool of proliferating NPCs by accelerating their cell cycle exit and differentiation into post-mitotic neurons . Sam68 function was linked to regulation of Aldh1a3 pre-mRNA 3'-end processing . Binding of Sam68 to an intronic polyadenylation site prevents its recognition and premature transcript termination , favoring expression of a functional enzyme . The lower ALDH1A3 expression and activity in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs results in reduced glycolysis and clonogenicity , thus depleting the embryonic NPC pool and limiting cortical expansion . Our study identifies Sam68 as a key regulator of NPC self-renewal and establishes a novel link between modulation of ALDH1A3 expression and maintenance of high glycolytic metabolism in the developing cortex . As embryonic neurogenesis starts , neuroepithelial cells at first , and radial glia cells  later , divide symmetrically in the VZ , to generate cells retaining self-renewal capacity , or asymetrically to give rise to intermediate progenitor cells  or differentiated cells  . Multiple mechanisms , including regulation of metabolic routes  and of gene expression  , cooperate to create an interconnected network that balances NPC self-renewal and differentiation in the correct time and space during cortical expansion . Mounting evidence documents that modulation of RNA metabolism , and particularly of alternative splicing , plays a key role in neurogenesis and during formation of neuronal circuits , as highlighted by the global changes in the splicing signature that accompany the transition from NPCs to neurons  . For instance , a temporal switch in the expression of two homologous polypyrimidine-tract-binding proteins , PTBP1 and PTBP2 , governs splicing of a large set of neural-specific exons in genes involved in neuronal functions  . Knockout of the Ptbp2 gene caused premature neurogenesis and depletion of the NPC pool  , proving the crucial role played by this splicing factor in the developing brain . Another splicing factor involved in neuronal functions is Sam68 , encoded by the Khdrbs1 gene , which is highly expressed in brain and testis  , and it was shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of fragile X tremor/ataxia syndrome  and spinal muscular atrophy  . Furthermore , Sam68 modulates splicing of the neurexin one gene  in response to neuronal activity  and its ablation caused altered synaptic plasticity and motor coordination defects  . Sam68 is strongly expressed during cortical expansion  , whereas its levels decline after birth . We found that Sam68 regulates the switch between self-renewal and differentiation of mouse NPCs both in vivo and in vitro . Splicing-sensitive microarrays identified a subset of genes and exons whose expression is dependent on Sam68 in NPCs . In particular , Sam68 prevents usage of a cryptic polyadenylation signal  in intron 7 of the Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1A3  gene , thus promoting the expression of a functional enzyme . We also found that ALDH1A3 enhances anaerobic glycolytic metabolism in NPCs and that enforcing its activity rescued the self-renewal defect of Sam68 knockout  NPCs . Conversely , Aldh1a3 knockdown in wild-type cells mimicked the phenotype of Sam68 knockout NPCs , by reducing glycolytic activity and promoting neuronal differentiation . Thus , our work unveils a key role of Sam68 in neurogenesis through regulation of Aldh1a3 pre-mRNA processing , which results in the modulation of glycolytic metabolism and NPC fate during cortical development . Developmental analysis of the mouse cortex showed that Sam68 mRNA and protein levels peak between E13 . The peak of Sam68 expression corresponds to stages of intense neurogenesis in the developing cortex  and parallels that of the NPC marker SOX2 , which is also high between E10 . Sam68 and SOX2 co-localized in most cells of the VZ and SVZ of E13 . These results suggested that Sam68 expression is high in NPCs and declines upon differentiation . Sam68 , like SOX2 , was abundant in proliferating NPC  and steadily decreased when cells were induced to differentiate  . Conversely , expression of the neuronal marker TUBB3  was barely detectable in proliferating NPCs and augmented upon differentiation  . Thus , Sam68 is highly expressed in embryonic NPCs . Sam68 is highly expressed in NPCs and decreases during differentiation . qPCR analysis of Khdrbs1 mRNA levels in the cortex of embryonic  and post-natal  mouse brain . Khdrbs1 relative expression was evaluated by △CT method using L34 expression for normalization . Western blot analysis of Sam68 and SOX2 expression in lysates from embryonic  and post-natal  mouse cortices . Immunofluorescence analyses of Sam68 and SOX2 expression in E13 . High-magnification confocal images confirm Sam68 and SOX2 colocalization in most cells of the VZ and SVZ . High magnification of confocal images of 1 dpp mouse VZ-SVZ , show the colocalization of Sam68 and SOX2 in NPCs  . Analysis of Sam68 , SOX2 and TUBB3 mRNA  and protein levels  in NPCs cultured under proliferating condition  or during 1–6 days of differentiation  . qPCR analysis of Khdrbs1 , Sox2 and Tubb3 mRNA levels in NPCs under proliferation conditions  and 1–6 days of differentiation  . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . 003 To investigate whether Sam68 plays a role during neurogenesis , we first assessed whether its ablation affected the rate of NPC proliferation in the embryonic cortex . Proliferating cells  were significantly decreased in the cortex of Khdrbs1-/- embryos  . Likewise , SOX2+-NPCs , as well as the number of NPCs undergoing DNA synthesis  , were also markedly affected  , indicating that fewer NPCs are present and proliferate in the E13 . 5 Khdrbs1-/- cortex . At this developmental stage , two main types of proliferating NPCs have been described in the mouse cortex  : RGCs and IPCs . IPCs express the transcription factor TBR2 , are derived from RGCs and divide one or more times away from the VZ before they generate post-mitotic neurons , which localize in the basal compartment of the cortex  and express the transcription factor TBR1  . No TBR1-positive cell was labeled by BrdU in both wild-type and knockout embryos  , confirming that these cells are post-mitotic neurons  . Ablation of Khdrbs1 perturbs neurogenesis in the embryonic cortex . Immunofluorescence analyses on sections of Khdrbs1+/+and Khdrbs1-/- brain from E13 . Bar graphs on the right side show the number of BrdU/PAX6  , BrdU/TBR2  and TBR1  positive cells counted in 100 μm2 . SVZ , Subventricular Zone; VZ , Ventricular Zone; IZ , Intermediate Zone; CP , Cortical Plate; RGCs , Radial Glia Cells; IPCs , Intermediate Progenitor Cells . Ablation of Khdrbs1 perturbs neurogenesis in the embryonic cortex . Bar graphs represent  measurement of the number of BrdU+ cells  , SOX2+  and BrdU+/SOX2+ cells  . 005 The concomitant decrease in proliferating cells and increase in post-mitotic neurons observed in the knockout embryos suggested that , in the absence of Sam68 , NPCs are prone to exit the cell cycle and differentiate . Co-staining with the Ki67 proliferation marker revealed that the fraction of NPCs that exited the cell cycle  in the E12 . 5 time-frame was significantly increased in Khdrbs1-/- embryos  . Furthermore , in wild-type embryos , ~30% of post-mitotic neurons were also labeled with BrdU  , indicating that only a subset of NPCs underwent terminal differentiation within 48 hr . These results suggest that Sam68 is required to promote NPC self-renewal and to delay their differentiation into post-mitotic neurons in the mouse embryonic cortex . Differentiation of NPCs in post-mitotic neurons is accelerated in the Khdrbs1-/- mouse cortex . Diagram of the experimental design to investigate the fate on NPCs during neurogenesis . Confocal images of immunofluorescence analysis of Ki67  and TBR1  in Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- E14 . Bar graphs on the right side show the number of BrdU+/Ki67- cells  and of BrdU+/TBR1+ cells  counted in 100 μm2 . Representative images of embryonic cortex of Khdrbs1+/+ andKhdrbs1-/- E17 . Bar graphs represent  measurement of cortex length from ventricular to pial surface  , number of BrdU+ cells  and SOX2+ cells  . Ablation of Khdrbs1 does not affect overall embryo development . Weight analysis of Khdrbs1+/+ , Khdrbs1+/- and Khdrbs1-/- mouse embryos at E13 . 007 To determine if premature exit from the cell cycle and differentiation of NPCs has an effect on cortical expansion , we examined embryos at E17 . A 2-hr pulse showed that BrdU-positive proliferating cells were strongly decreased in Khdrbs1-/- cortex also at this stage , which was reflected in lower number of SOX2-positive NPCs  . 5 Khdrbs1-/- embryos  . These observations strongly suggest that ablation of Sam68 depletes the NPC pool and limits cortical expansion during neurogenesis . To elucidate the function of Sam68 in NPCs , we isolated them from wild type and knockout E13 . NPCs grown under stemness conditions form characteristic neurospheres that rapidly grow in volume . Furthermore , when seeded at single cell level , knockout NPCs produced cytoplasmic extensions and attached to the plate , while wild-type cells remained in suspension  . Collectively , these features suggested that Khdrbs1-/- NPCs display a tendency to lose stemness and differentiate . The clonogenic potential of wild-type NPCs slowly declined from ~45% to~25% after 7 passages in culture . Sam68-/-NPCs lose stemness and are prone to differentiate in culture . Bright field images of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs cultured in proliferating condition for 3 days in culture . Black arrowheads point to Khdrbs1-/- NPCs exiting the sphere and attaching to the surface . Clonogenic assay of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Clonogenicity was expressed as the percentage of neurospheres obtained from the seeded NPCs at each indicated passage . Immunofluorescence analysis of the stemness markers PAX6  and Nestin  in Khdrbs1+/+ andKhdrbs1-/- NPCs cultured in differentiating condition for 1 day . Immunofluorescence analysis of expression of the neuronal marker TUBB3  and of the oligodendrocyte marker MBP  in Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs , differentiated for 3 days . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . List of the genes upregulated and downregulated inSam68 knockout NPCs . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . List of exons regulated by SAM68 in mouse NPCs . Green: genes downregulated at expression level; Yellow: genes up-regulated at expression level; White: genes unchanged at expression level . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . Khdrbs1-/- NPCs lose stemness and are prone to differentiate in culture . Bar graph reporting the analysis of the diameter of neurospheres formed by Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs in 1–3 days of culture . Cell death analysis of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs assessed during the indicated days of proliferation . Confocal images of immunofluorescence analysis of actin cytoskeleton stained with phalloidin in Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs seeded as single cell on polyornithine/laminin-coated dishes . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . Khdrbs1-/- NPCs-derived neurons display more complex morphology . Images representing a typical neuron obtained through the differentiation of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs  and the representation of the scheme used to quantify the complexity of its structure for the evaluation of branching level  . Analysis of the complexity and of the differentiation stage of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- . Bar graphs represent the total length of neurites per cell , the average length of each branch per cell , the average number of neurites and the average branching level , as reported in  of neurons obtained after 3 days of differentiation . High-throughput analyses of the transcriptomic of Khdrbs1-/-NPCs . Analysis of the gene and exon expression in Khdrbs1-/- vs Khdrbs1+/+ NPCs reporting upregulated and downregulated events . Overlap between the genes regulated at expression and splicing level in Khdrbs1-/- vs Khdrbs1+/+ NPCs . NPCs , Neural progenitor cells . 013 Next , we performed differentiation assays by switching NPCs to serum-containing medium for 1–3 days  . Khdrbs1-/- NPCs differentiated with higher efficiency than wild-type cells , as indicated by the fewer cells that retained high expression of the stemness markers PAX6 and Nestin after 1 day  . When differentiation was evaluated after 3 days , Khdrbs1-/- NPCs gave rise to significantly more neurons and oligodendrocytes than the corresponding wild-type NPCs  . Furthermore , neurons generated by knockout NPCs exhibited higher complexity and more advanced differentiation stage , as documented by their increased branching level  . These findings indicate that Khdrbs1-/- NPCs have reduced self-renewal proficiency and enhanced tendency to differentiate both in vivo and in vitro . We hypothesized that the reduced self-renewal capacity of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs was due to dysregulation of gene expression . Splicing-sensitive exon arrays identified 254 annotated genes regulated at the expression levels and 117 exons in 87 genes regulated at the splicing level in knockout NPCs  . Sam68 generally acted as a repressor of expression and the majority of targets were upregulated in knockout NPCs  . By contrast , Sam68 functioned as splicing enhancer for target exons , with little overlap between genes regulated at expression and splicing level  . Exon cassette was the predominant splicing event regulated by Sam68 in NPCs , followed by alternative last exon selection  . Notably , gene ontology analysis highlighted significant enrichment of functional categories related to neuron and oligodendrocyte properties  , thus supporting the pro-differentiation effect of Sam68 depletion in NPCs . Similarly , the oligodendrocyte-specific myelin-associated glycoprotein  and myelin basic protein  were strongly induced in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs  . These results confirmed at the molecular level the pro-differentiation phenotype exhibited by Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Thus , we further investigated the functional relevance of splicing-regulated genes to identify targets that could cause the phenotype of knockout NPCs . Among the 87 genes identified in the array  , we focused on Aldh1a3 for its potential relevance in NPCs . Indeed , ALDH1A3 was shown to support self-renewal and clonogenic potential of cancer stem cells  , including glioma stem cells  , which can differentiate into neurons and glial cells like NPCs  . The 5' region of the Aldh1a3 transcript  was upregulated in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs , whereas the 3' region  was downregulated  . Closer inspection of the array results highlighted the potential upregulation of a cryptic alternative last exon  residing in the proximal part of intron 7 , suggesting the existence of an alternative PAS in this intron and premature termination of the transcript  . Both primers amplified a distinct band from Khdrbs1-/- NPCs RNA , whereas only faint bands of various sizes were detected in wild type cells  . Sequencing of the 3'-RACE products amplified in knockout NPCs revealed usage of an alternative PAS in intron 7 that is followed by two potential cleavage sites  . To confirm this result , and to rule out accumulation of intron 7-containing pre-mRNA , we performed RT-PCR analyses using a forward primer in exon 6 and reverse primers located either upstream  or downstream  of the alternative PAS and cleavage sites  . Furthermore , incubation of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs with 5 , 6-dichloro-1-β-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole  to block RNA transcription led to rapid decay of transcripts containing exon 3-intron 3 and intron 8-exon 8 sequences , indicative of pre-mRNA amplification , whereas the amplicon corresponding to exon 7-intron 7 sequences was stable up to 6 hr of incubation  . These results confirm the presence of an alternative mRNA originating from premature termination of the Aldh1a3 transcript in knockout NPCs . Sam68 regulates the alternative 3'-end processing of ALDH1A3 pre-mRNA . Diagram of ALDH1A3 gene structure . Conventional RT-PCR analysis for the validation of the canonical and alternative ALDH1A3 transcripts expressed in Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . 3'-RACE PCR analysis of ALDH1A3 alternative transcripts expressed in Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . CLIP assay of Sam68 binding to the ALDH1A3 pre-mRNA . 5 mouse cortices were UV-crosslinked and immunoprecipitated with control IgGs or anti-Sam68 IgGs . The upper panel shows a schematic representation of ALDH1A3 gene structure and primers  used in the assay . Sam68 regulates the alternative 3'-end processing of ALDH1A3 pre-mRNA . Diagramatic scheme of the Aldh1a3 gene reporting the up-  and down-regulated  exons identified by the microarray experiment . The bar graphs represent the results of qPCR analyses reported to validate the alternative 3-end processing event suggested by the microarray experiment in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . RT-PCR to validate the alternative polyadenylation of ALDH1A3 and to rule out accumulation of the unspliced pre-mRNA . Reactions were performed using a forward primer in exon 6  and reverse primers annealing upstream  or downstream  of the alternative PAS and RNA extracted from Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . RT-PCR of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs treated for 2 or 6 hr with 75 µM DRB to block transcription . We hypothesized that Sam68 can bind the cryptic PAS in intron 7 in wild-type NPCs , thus preventing its recognition and blocking premature termination of the pre-mRNA . In line with this possibility , UV crosslink immunoprecipitation  experiments showed strong recruitment of Sam68 in proximity of the cryptic PAS in intron 7 of the Aldh1a3 pre-mRNA , whereas binding in other regions was much weaker  . These observations strongly suggest that Sam68 binding is required to mask the cryptic PAS and avoid premature termination of the Aldh1a3 transcript in mouse NPCs . Alternative PAS usage should lead to lower expression of the full-length ALDH1A3 protein and potential expression of a truncated ALDH1A3 protein . Western blot analysis confirmed the reduction of the full-length ALDH1A3 protein  . Blocking the proteasome by incubation with MG132 did not lead to ALDH1A3△ accumulation , whereas interference with autophagy using chloroquine caused a mild accumulation of a protein product slightly smaller than the recombinant ALDH1A3△  . Thus , ALDH1A3△ appears to be either very unstable or not expressed in NPCs . Full-length ALDH1A3 overexpressed in HEK293 exhibited enzymatic activity , as measured by reduction of NADPH  , whereas the ALDH1A3△ protein was completely inactive  . Since ALDH1A3 is a multimeric protein and homodimerization domains are found also in the N-terminus of the protein , which is present in ALDH1A3△ , we checked if ALDH1A3△ could contribute to ALDH activity in combination with the full-length protein . ALDH1A3△ efficiently co-immunoprecipitated with ALDH1A3 . However , its co-expression with the full-length protein reduced ALDH activity in a dose-dependent manner  . These observations suggest that , even if expressed at low levels , ALDH1A3△ could not contribute to ALDH activity in NPCs , but it could eventually exert a dominant-negative effect . Sam68 promotes ALDH1A3 expression and activity . Western blot analysis of the expression of ALDH1A3 and Sam68 in lysates from Khdrbs1+/+ and khdrbs1-/- NPCs . The bar graph represent densitometric analyses of ALDH1A3 expression  . Representative flow cytometric analysis of ALDH activity performed on Khdrbs1+/+ and khdrbs1-/-NPCs  by ALDEFLUOR assay . Gate was determined using NPCs treated with DEAB as negative control . 5 Khdrbs1+/+ and khdrbs1-/- cortex immunostained with ALDH1A3 and SOX2 antibodies . Graph on the right represents counts of ALDH1A3+/SOX2+-positive cells . RT-PCR analysis of the expression of full length Aldh1a3 , ALDH1A3△ , and Khdrbs1 in Khdrbs1+/+ NPCs cultured under proliferating  and differentiating conditions  . Correlation analysis between the expression levels of Khdrbs1 and full length Aldh1a3 determined by qPCR analysis of RNA extracted from the indicated brain regions . qPCR analysis of the expression of full length Aldh1a3  and ALDH1A3△  in Khdrbs1+/+ and khdrbs1-/-cerebellum and olfactory bulbs . Khdrbs1 and Aldh1a3 relative expression was evaluated by △CT method using L34 expression for normalization . Sam68 promotes ALDH1A3 expression and activity . Western blot analysis of ALDH1A3△ expression in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs treated with 10 µM proteasome inhibitor MG132 and 2 µM autophagy inhibitor Chloroquine . HEK293 cells transfected with pCI-ALDH1A3△ were used as positive control for ALDH1A3△ expression . Enzymatic assay  and western blot analysis  to analyze the activity and the expression of Flag-tagged FL ALDH1A3 and ALDH1A3△ recombinant proteins transfected in Hek293 cells . Co-immunoprecipitation assays performed in HEK293 cell co-transfected with GFP-ALDH1A3 full length plasmid or GFP plasmid as control , Flag-ALDH1A3 full length plasmid and raising concentration  of Flag-ALDH1A3 △ plasmid . Enzymatic assay of the activity of full length  ALDH1A3 and ALDH1A3△ recombinant proteins transfected either alone or in combination in HEK293 cells . 017 In line with the reduced expression of full length ALDH1A3 , ALDH activity was markedly decreased in Khdrbs-/- NPCs  . Furthermore , ALDH1A3 staining , which is restricted to the SOX2+ cells in VZ and SVZ of the developing cortex , was also significantly reduced in E13 . These results indicate that Sam68 promotes ALDH1A3 protein expression in NPCs . The localization of ALDH1A3 suggests that its expression is restricted to RGCs . Moreover , we found that the full-length Aldh1a3 transcript rapidly declined upon differentiation of wild-type NPCs in culture  . Importantly , this decline was accompanied by reduced Sam68 expression and increased expression of ALDH1A3△  , indicating that alternative 3'-end processing of the Aldh1a3 transcript is a physiological process of NPC differentiation controlled by fluctuations in Sam68 expression . In agreement with a direct modulation of Aldh1a3 expression by Sam68 , we also observed a highly significant correlation between expression of these genes in post-natal brain , with highest levels of both transcripts in olfactory bulb and cerebellum and lowest expression in the hypothalamus  . Furthermore , expression of full-length Aldh1a3 transcript was reduced in olfactory bulb and cerebellum of Khdrbs1-/- mice , while the ALE-containing shorter transcript was induced  . These results indicate that Sam68 is required to promote the expression and activity of ALDH1A3 through modulation of its pre-mRNA 3'-end processing in both embryonic and post-natal mouse brain . ALDH1A3 promotes self-renewal and clonogenic potential of glioma stem cells  , suggesting that its reduced expression may account for the phenotype of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . To test this hypothesis , we transfected Khdrbs1-/- NPCs with constructs expressing either GFP-ALDH1A3 or GFP alone as control . Notably , expression of GFP-ALDH1A3 almost completely rescued the growth and clonogenic defects of knockout NPCs  . In line with its negative effect of ALDH activity , expression of ALDH1A3△ in wild-type NPCs blocked proliferation and interfered with formation of neurospheres , even though the cells remained alive  . Moreover , knockdown of endogenous ALDH1A3 in wild-type NPCs promoted neuronal differentiation to an extent similar to that observed in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs  . Collectively , these results support the notion that Sam68 promotes NPC proliferation and represses their differentiation by maintaining high levels of full-length ALDH1A3 . ALDH1A3-dependent glycolytic metabolism rescues the self-renewal potential of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Representative images of Khdrbs1+/+ NPCs transfected with GFP vector and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected with GFP and GFP-ALDH1A3 vectors , cultured for 3 days in proliferating condition . Bar graph reporting the analysis of the diameter of neurospheres formed by transfected NPCs in 1–3 days of culture . Clonogenic assay of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected as indicated . RT-PCR analysis of Aldh1a3 expression in Khdrbs1+/+and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected with si-CTRL or si-ALDH1A3 siRNAs . Differentiation assay of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected with the same siRNAs used in  . 05  Glycolytic activity measured by lactate accumulation in the medium of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected as indicated . Bar graph reporting the analysis of the diameter of neurospheres formed by Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs cultured in proliferating condition for 3 days in the presence or absence of the ALDH inhibitor DEAB  . Clonogenic assay of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs cultured in proliferating condition in the presence or absence of 50 µM DEAB . ALDH1A3-dependent glycolytic metabolism rescues the self-renewal potential of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Representative images of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs transfected with GFP vector and Khdrbs1+/+ NPCs transfected with GFP and GFP-ALDH1A3△ vectors , cultured for 3 days in proliferating condition . Bar graph reporting the analysis of the diameter of neurospheres formed by transfected NPCs in 1–3 days of culture . ALDH1A3-dependent glycolytic metabolism rescues the self-renewal potential of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Evaluation of the relative lactate production of Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- NPCs cultured under proliferating condition . Relative lactate production in Khdrbs1+/+ or Khdrbs1-/- NPCs treated or not with the indicated concentration of the ALDH inhibitor DEAB . Analysis of the relative lactate production in Khdrbs1+/+ in proliferation condition  and during differentiation process  . 020 Stem cells often rely on anaerobic glycolysis for their proliferation and self-renewal  and high glycolytic activity is required to prevent precocious NPC differentiation in vivo  . Since ALDH1A3 is involved in this metabolic pathway  , we investigated whether Sam68 expression affects anaerobic glycolysis in NPCs . Lower accumulation of the end-product lactate in the culture medium indicated that glycolytic activity was significantly reduced in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs compared to wild-type cells  . A similar reduction in lactate production could be obtained by inhibiting ALDH activity using N , N-diethylaminobenzaldehyde   , a commonly used inhibitor of ALDH enzymes  . Furthermore , knockdown of Aldh1a3 expression in wild type NPCs was sufficient to reduce anaerobic glycolysis to the levels of knockout cells , whereas overexpression of GFP-ALDH1A3 fully rescued lactate production in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs  . Notably , reduced glycolytic activity accompanied differentiation of NPCs in vitro  , concomitant with the decline in Sam68 and Aldh1a3 expression  . These findings indicate that Sam68 maintains high levels of anaerobic glycolysis through modulation of ALDH1A3 protein expression . Next , to determine whether inhibition of ALDH activity and glycolytic metabolism could recapitulate the phenotype of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs , we treated wild-type cells with 50 µM DEAB , a dose that lowered anaerobic glycolysis to the levels observed in knockout NPCs  . Strikingly , pharmacologic inhibition of ALDH activity in wild-type NPCs was sufficient to recapitulate the neurosphere growth  and clonogenic defect  of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . These results strongly indicate that Sam68-dependent modulation of ALDH1A3 expression is required to maintain self-renewal capacity of NPCs through enhanced glycolytic metabolism  . Sam68 modulates neurogenesis through regulating ALDH1A3 expression . Schematic model of the function of Sam68 in the modulation of NPCs stemness . High Sam68 expression in NPCs of the neocortex insures high expression of ALDH1A3 protein and anaerobic glycolysis , thus promoting NPC self-renewal and cortical expansion . Upon differentiation , Sam68 expression declines , causing premature termination of Aldh1a3 transcription , reduced ALDH activity and glycolytic metabolism , thus enhancing NPC differentiation into post-mitotic neurons . Analysis of the mouse knockout model revealed that Sam68 is physiologically required for adipogenesis  , male and female gametogenesis  and for regulation of synapse morphology and function in neurons  . Notably , Khdrbs1-/- mice also displayed high perinatal lethality  , but the biological processes and the genes regulated by Sam68 during embryonic development are completely unknown . Our studies have now unveiled an unpredicted function of Sam68 as key regulator of the balance between stem and differentiated cells in the developing cortex . Ablation of this function in vivo caused anticipated NPC differentiation into post-mitotic neurons and limited the expansion of the neocortex . These findings highlight a novel Sam68-dependent pathway required for stem cell fate during brain development . Sam68 is strongly expressed in NPCs during stages of intense neurogenesis and cortical expansion  . Knockout of Sam68 function significantly decreased proliferating NPCs  at E13 . Birth-dating experiments indicated that Khdrbs1-/- NPCs were prone to exit the cell cycle and differentiate into neurons . The consequence of this premature NPC loss was a reduced expansion of the cortex at E17 . 5 , indicating that Sam68 is strictly required for the correct development of the mouse brain . 5 NPCs and its expression declined upon their differentiation . Second , Khdrbs1-/- NPCs were deficient in proliferation and clonogenicity while displaying enhanced tendency to differentiate . These observations indicate that Sam68 is required to maintain the proper balance between NPC self-renewal and differentiation and suggest that this protein supports stem-like properties in embryonic NPCs . Analysis of splicing-sensitive microarrays identified a relatively small subset of genes that are modulated by Sam68 in NPCs . These genes were selectively enriched in functional categories typical of neurons and glial cells and the majority of them were upregulated in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs , in line with the role of Sam68 in the promotion of stem-like features . Among these targets , we focused on ALDH1A3 , a metabolic enzyme that was identified as marker of cancer stem cells . Since ALDH1A3 supports the clonogenic and tumorigenic potential of cancer stem cells  , we hypothesized that it might also promote stemness in NPCs and that Sam68 exerted its effects through modulation of ALDH1A3 expression . Indeed , Khdrbs1-/- NPCs displayed lower ALDH enzymatic activity and ALDH1A3 protein expression . Furthermore , by performing knockdown and gain-of-function studies , we demonstrated that regulation of ALDH1A3 expression accounts for many of the phenotypes of Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . Thus , our results link the physiological defect of knockout embryos to regulation of a specific target that promotes NPC self-renewal . Knockout of Ptbp2 was shown to alter the dynamics of embryonic neurogenesis and splicing of several genes , but the specific target gene  of PTBP2 that are responsible for defective neurogenesis were not identified  . Our study extends beyond these correlations and establishes a direct link between Sam68 and ALDH1A3 functions in the maintenance of NPC self-renewal capacity during neurogenesis . ALE selection is a prominent and unexpected pattern of regulation by Sam68 in NPCs . Mechanistically , we found that Sam68 directly binds to Aldh1a3 pre-mRNA in proximity of a cryptic PAS located in the 5' portion of intron 7 . Ablation of Sam68 unmasked this intronic PAS , causing alternative polyadenylation and premature termination of the Aldh1a3 transcript . Notably , the same regulation of Aldh1a3 alternative 3'-end processing occurred also in wild-type NPCs undergoing differentiation , concomitantly with the decline in expression of endogenous Sam68 and with acquisition of neuronal features . Thus , our results indicate that high levels of Sam68 are required to maintain Aldh1a3 expression and activity by suppressing premature termination of transcription of its pre-mRNA  . This function of Sam68 resembles that of the U1 snRNP , which prevents global recognition of a large number of cryptic intronic PASs , thus insuring proper transcription termination of pre-mRNAs in the last exon  . It will be interesting to investigate whether or not Sam68 functionally interacts with U1snRNP in this regulation and why its expression affects the alternative 3'-end processing of only few transcripts . Nevertheless , the studies shown here unveil a previously unappreciated role of Sam68 in alternative polyadenylation with physiological relevance for NPC differentiation . ALDH1A3 was shown to support clonogenicity and tumorigenicity of glioma stem cells by enhancing the glycolytic pathway  . Notably , very recent studies demonstrated that anaerobic glycolysis is required for NPC self-renewal in vivo  . We observed that lactate production through the glycolytic pathway was strongly reduced in Khdrbs1-/- NPCs . This phenotype could be recapitulated by Aldh1a3 knockdown or ALDH pharmacological inhibition in wild-type NPCs , or by promoting NPC differentiation in culture . Furthermore , the clonogenic potential of both wild-type and knockout NPCs was tightly linked to the extent of glycolysis , as modulation of this metabolic pathway by up- or down-regulating ALDH1A3 activity paralleled their self-renewal potential . By linking ALDH1A3 activity to anaerobic glycolysis in NPCs , we identify a novel metabolic route required for maintenance of stemness in neural precursors that is strictly under the control of Sam68 . Our work suggests that during neurogenesis , high levels of Sam68 expression are required for the correct processing of Aldh1a3 pre-mRNA , thus insuring high ALDH1A3 activity and fueling of the glycolytic pathway . Conversely , a decline in Sam68 expression leads to reduced expression and activity of ALDH1A3 and inhibits the glycolytic pathway , priming NPCs to enter the differentiation program  . Importantly , the impaired balance between self-renewal and differentiation in Khdrbs1-/- mice results in depletion of the NPC pool and reduced expansion of the neocortex . Since altered neurogenesis and cortical development are associated to severe neuronal disorders like epilepsy , schizophrenia and autism  , our findings suggest that fine-tuned regulation of Sam68 expression represents a safeguard mechanism during brain development . In conclusion , our study identifies Sam68 as a novel regulator of neurogenesis and highlights an unprecedented link between Sam68 , ALDH1A3 and the glycolytic pathway that supports maintenance of the NPC pool in the embryonic cortex . Floating sections were incubated overnight at 4°C with the following antibodies: goat anti-SOX2  , rabbit anti-TBR1  or anti-TBR2  , rat anti-BrdU  , rabbit anti-PAX6  , rabbit anti-Ki67  , rabbit anti-Sam68  and rabbit anti-ALDH1A3  . NPCs were isolated from Khdrbs1+/+ and Khdrbs1-/- C57/BL6  E13 . For clonal analysis , 5000 NPCs were plated in 35-mm wells for each experimental point . After 5 days of culture in proliferating conditions , neurosphere number was evaluated and NPC clonogenity was calculated as ratio between plated cells and neurospheres formed , expressed as percentage . For differentiation assays , 20 , 000 NPCs/well were plated in 4-well dishes , pre-coated with poly-ornithine  in H2O and with laminin-1  in PBS for 1 hr each at 37°C , in neurosphere medium containing 1% v/v fetal bovine serum   and incubated in a humidified atmosphere with 6% CO2 at 37uC for 1 to 6 days . For immunofluorescence analysis , NPCs cultured in differentiating condition were fixed with 4%  formaldehyde  and permeabilized with 0 . Primary antibodies  : mouse anti-Nestin  , rabbit anti-PAX6  , rabbit anti-GFP  , mouse anti-GFP  , mouse anti-TUBB3  , chicken anti-MBP  . For transfection , NPCs were electroporated using AMAXA nucleoflector device II and AMAXA mouse NSC nucleoflector kit  , following manufacturer instructions . Briefly , 5×106 NSCs were centrifuged and resuspended in 100 µl of P3 primary solution with 5 µg of GFP or ALDH1A3-GFP vectors or 300 nM of si-ctrl or a mix of 3 siALDH1A3 siRNAs . Electroporated NPCs were resuspended in 500 µl of pre-warmed medium , centrifuged at 1300 rpm for 5 min at RT and resuspended in NPC proliferation medium . Total RNA was extracted from NPCs or brain tissues using Trizol reagent  following manufacturer instructions . For 3' RACE PCR , 2 µg of total RNA isolated from Sam68+/+ and Sam68-/- NPCs was used for retrotranscription with 0 . NPCs or brain tissues were lysed in 50 mM Tris–HCl , pH 7 . 1% Tween buffer: rabbit anti-Sam68  , rabbit anti-SOX2  , rabbit anti-ALDH1A3  , mouse anti-GAPDH  , mouse anti-Vinculin  . Total RNA was extracted and retrotranscribed as reported above and cDNA was used to clone ALDH1A3 FL and △ isoforms in pEGFP-C3 , p3xFlag-CMV or pCI vectors . ALDH activity using the ALDEFLUOR assay kit  . 1×106 NPCs were resuspended in Aldefluor assay buffer containing BAAA  for 60 min and maintained on ice . For each sample , the same number of cells was treated with 50 mmol/l of diethylaminobenzaldehyde  ALDH inhibitor , to set the negative control gate . After centrifugation at 15 , 000xg for 3 min at 4°C , 500 µg of extract was treated with Proteinase K  for 30 min at 37°C and RNA was purified by standard procedure  or diluted to 1 ml with lysis buffer for immunoprecipitation with anti-Sam68  or control rabbit IgGs  as negative control , in presence of protein-G magnetic dynabeads  and 10 μl RNase I  , for 2 hr at 4°C under rotation . Total RNA was isolated from independent NPCs obtained from 3 wild type and 3 knockout E13 . "
"Dominant theories of hippocampal function propose that place cell representations are formed during an animal's first encounter with a novel environment and are subsequently replayed during off-line states to support consolidation and future behaviour . Such ‘preplay’ was not observed for an unrewarded but otherwise similar portion of the environment . We hypothesise such goal-biased preplay may support preparation for future experiences in novel environments . We investigated whether the presence of an inaccessible goal in an unvisited portion of an environment was sufficient to elicit pre-activation  of hippocampal place cell sequences that will subsequently represent runs through the unvisited environment . To this end , we recorded from ensembles of place cells   while rats ran along a T-shaped track  with visible yet inaccessible arms  —RUN1 . One arm  was subsequently cued with food while the animal remained on the track—GOAL-CUE . During a rest period before RUN1  and after GOAL-CUE  , spiking events—periods of 300 ms or less , where at least 15% of cells were active  —were analysed . These spiking events were associated with significantly higher power in the ripple spectrum  than other comparable periods  . To investigate whether paths on the cued and uncued arms were preplayed we assessed the match between the order in which cells fired during spiking events and during future runs on the arms  . Specifically , we computed the rank-order correlations between spiking events and sequences of place cells active on the arms , referred to as templates   . Preplay events were identified as those with either a significant positive or negative correlation—a two-tailed test , each tail tested at the 97 . These preplay events were found to exhibit higher power in the ripple spectrum than non-significant spiking events  . To establish significance at the population level , the proportion of preplay events measured was compared to a null distribution generated by calculating correlations between place cell templates and shuffled sequences from events  . 003R1838R505R584R504All rats  Cue bias  RUN10 . 10 GOAL-CUE0 . 33Cue bias  RUN1−0 . 11 GOAL-CUE0 . 13RUN2 arm bias RUN21 . 96Session duration  SLEEP16088757474 RUN1131013911 GOAL-CUE1017121113 SLEEP26067716065 RUN23419353130Template length  Up cued arm2036534338 Down cued arm1535453332 Up uncued arm1926454033 Down uncued arm153241433310 . Preferential preplay of a behaviourally relevant , unvisited environment . Prior to running on the track , the animals rested for at least an hour  . Following REST1 , animals ran 20 laps on the stem  . Access to the arms was blocked by a barrier at the end of the stem which the animals could see through but not pass . Following RUN1 , the experimenter baited one arm so to provoke the animals' interest in that arm  . Following goal-cueing , the animal rested for at least another hour  . Following REST2 , the barrier was removed and the animals traversed the extent of the track , in alternate L-shaped laps  . Left: an example template for a run to the cued arm . Right: Example raster plots of preplay events—the title shows the correlation between the preplay event and the template sequence . C same as B but for the uncued template . Schematic of experimental apparatus black rectangles on track represent texture cues , dotted line transparent barrier , circle rest enclosure  , wiggly border demarcates the white curtains surrounding the environment , with distal landmarks fixed to the curtain  . Note , the rest enclosure was only present during rest periods . Ripple power is elevated during preplay events power in the ripple spectrum  is higher during preplay events  than during both non-significant spiking events  and non-event periods  . Vertical lines represent start and end of spiking events . Place cell templates place cell sequences for each template . x-axis shows location on arm  —left side closer to the stem , and y-axis cell IDs . UCA = Up Cued Arm , DCA = Down Cued Arm , UUA = Up Uncued Arm , DUA = Down Uncued Arm . Spiking events for cued arm in REST2 centre: bootstrapped cumulative distribution of  correlations between spiking events and the cued template in REST2  . Raster plots: spiking events of varying correlations with the future cued arm template . Labels above the top row in each quadrant show which animal the spiking events belong to . Red rasters = first spike emitted from a cell in an event , grey rasters = consecutive spikes emitted from a cell . During GOAL-CUE , all four animals displayed more interest in the cued arm than the uncued arm  . In contrast , prior to goal-cueing , two animals spent more time on the uncued side of the stem  . Moreover , during GOAL-CUE all animals also spent more time looking towards the cued arm than the uncued arm  , again this bias was not observed prior to goal-cueing when only one animal spent more time looking towards the cued arm  . Furthermore , during RUN2 when the barrier was first removed and the food cue was no longer present , all four animals initially turned towards the cued arm and spent more time on the cued rather than the uncued arm  . Consistent with the behavioural bias , in REST2 we found significant preplay of the yet unvisited cued arm  . Conversely , the uncued arm was not significantly preplayed  . Similarly significant effects were found when animals were analysed individually  , although the results for one animal were based on a relatively small sample  , it still showed significant preplay of the cued arm . Moreover , the results were corroborated by a distribution-based analysis; namely , comparing the area under the curve  of bootstrapped cumulative distributions of absolute correlations for each arm to that of their shuffle distribution  . Preplay events of the cued arm were equally likely to represent paths to and from the cued arm  and to run towards  and away  from the ends of the arms  . Moreover , the amount of preplay exhibited by each animal appeared to be predicted by the interest they displayed for the cued arm during GOAL-CUE  . Importantly , preferential preplay of the cued arm could not be explained by differences in the number of cells with fields on the arms  , spike-sorting quality  , place field stability on the two arms  or the location of place fields on the cued arm  . In sum , we found during rest after goal-cueing , significant and preferential preplay of an unvisited and motivationally relevant portion of the environment . Preplay is a function of goal-cueing . Bootstrapped cumulative distribution of  correlations between spiking events and the cued template in REST2  . If there are more high correlations in the data compared to the shuffle then the data distribution will deviate below the shuffle distribution . same as A but for the uncued template in REST2 and the cued template in REST1 , respectively . Proportion of spiking events categorised as preplay events in REST2 for the cued and uncued arms . Bars show mean for all animals , and the black lines show the result for each animal . The grey dashed line shows the proportion of preplay events expected by chance . Same as D but comparing proportion of preplay events for the cued template in REST1 and REST2 . Preplay of cued arm in REST2—distribution-based analysis A mean difference between the bootstrapped cumulative distributions of absolute correlations for the data and the bootstrapped shuffle for the cued and uncued arms in REST2 and the cued arm in REST1 . If a place cell template is preplayed then the AUC of the data distribution should be smaller than that of the shuffled distribution  . If the confidence interval did not contain 0 we deemed the data distribution to be significantly different from the shuffle distribution . The distribution for the cued arm in REST2 was found to be significantly different from the shuffle  , yet that of the uncued arm in REST2 and the cued arm in REST1 were not  . Frequency distribution of absolute correlation coefficients between spiking events and future cued arm templates . p-value above histogram is based on a two-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test comparing the data distribution to the shuffle distribution . Preplay of stem during REST1 bootstrapped cumulative distribution of absolute correlations for spiking events of the stem , recorded during REST1 . Green line shows the data and the black line the bootstrapped distribution obtained after shuffling events 100 times . If the stem was preplayed during REST1 then one would expect the data distribution to deviate below the shuffle distribution ( p = 0 . 012AnimalArm# spiking events# preplay events% preplay% chancep-valueREST2 R1838Cued44920 . 33REST1 R1838Cued6334 . 12Summary results from REST1 and REST2 for the cued and uncued arms for individual animals . # Spiking events = total number of spiking events recorded . # preplay events = number of significant spiking events . % preplay = Proportion of the spiking events that qualified as preplay events  , expressed as a percentage . % chance = proportion of spiking events from the shuffled data that qualified as preplay events , expressed as a percentage . p-value = probability , derived from a binomial test , of obtaining the observed number of preplay events for each template given the chance level calculated from the shuffled data . Spatial and temporal dynamics of preplay . The proportion of preplay events when negative  and positive  spiking event correlations are analysed separately . Frequency of preplay events vs location on the cued  and uncued  arms normalised by the density of place field centres—100% indicates the expected number of preplay events under an even distribution across each arm . No bias towards particular sections of the arms was evident  . Bootstrapped cumulative distribution of  correlations between spiking events and the cued template during GOAL-CUE  . Ratio of activity levels between cued and uncued arm cells  during events for the first and second half of each experimental period . Red line shows mean ratio , derived from bootstrapped data , obtained for each period , and the shaded areas 1sd of the bootstrapped data . The black horizontal line indicates equal rates for the two arms . Preplay of cued arm during GOAL-CUE—distribution-based analysis A mean difference between the cumulative distributions of absolute correlations for the bootstrapped data and shuffle for the cued and uncued arms during GOAL-CUE . If a place cell template is preplayed then AUC of the data distribution should be smaller than that of the shuffled distribution  . If the confidence interval did not contain 0 we deemed the data distribution to be significantly different from the shuffle distribution . The distribution for the cued arm was found to be significantly different from the shuffle  , yet that of the uncued arm was not  . Frequency distribution of absolute correlation coefficients between spiking events and future cued arm templates . p-value above histogram is based on a two-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test comparing the data distribution to the shuffle distribution . Preferential preplay of the cued arm is not confounded by the number and activity of cells on the cued arm . Proportion of preplay events for the cued and uncued arm in REST2 following down-sampling to equate the number of cells on the two arms . Bars show means , black lines the results for individual animals and the dashed grey lines the proportion of preplay events expected by chance . same as a but comparing the proportion of preplay events for the cued arm in REST1 and REST2 . Animals' interest in cued arm during GOAL-CUE is associated with subsequent preplay for each animal . The proportion of preplay events for the cued arm recorded during REST2 is shown plotted against that animal's interest in the cued arm assessed by body position during GOAL-CUE . −0 indicates animal showed equal interest in the cued and uncued arm , values above 0 indicate more interest in the cued arm . Animals exhibiting a greater interest in the cued arm subsequently appear to experience a greater proportion of preplay for that same arm  . 017 Does goal-cueing trigger preplay ? If so , there should be a greater number of significant pre-play events in REST2 compared to REST1 which was recorded before animals had visited or seen any part of the environment . Preplay of the cued arm was higher in REST2 than REST1  , an effect that was seen for all animals  . Indeed , the cued arm was not significantly preplayed during REST1  . Thus , we find preplay only occurs during rest periods recorded after goal-cueing . However , it is possible that the frequency of preplay might decrease as a function of the temporal gap between rest and behaviour . As such our failure to detect preplay in REST1 might be due to the greater delay between REST1 and RUN2 than between REST2 and RUN2 . To address this we analysed preplay of the stem  during REST1 . We did not find preplay of the stem  . Consequently , these results imply that the preplay of the unvisited , yet visible , environment we observed in REST2 was driven by behavioural cueing of that environment . 018Animal# spiking events# preplay events% preplay% chancep-valueR18386834 . 44Summary results from REST1 analysing preplay of the stem . # Spiking events = total number of spiking events recorded . # Preplay events = number of significant spiking events . % preplay = Proportion of the spiking events that qualified as preplay events  , expressed as a percentage . % chance = proportion of spiking events from the shuffled data that qualified as preplay events , expressed as a percentage . p-value = probability , derived from a binomial test , of obtaining the observed number of preplay events for each template given the chance level calculated from the shuffled data . At what point does preferential preplay of the cued arm emerge ? Plausibly preplay might be initiated immediately when the cued arm is baited  and simply persist into the subsequent REST2 period , alternatively the bias may only arise during rest . Due to the short duration of the goal-cueing period  a relatively small number of spiking events were recorded for the two arms during this period  . However , based on a bootstrapped comparison of the AUC for absolute correlations from the cued and uncued arm vs shuffled distributions , we found that the cued but not the uncued arm was preplayed  . A direct comparison of the proportion of preplay events for the cued vs uncued arm was marginally not significant  . Specifically , we tracked the temporal evolution of the bias in preplay by comparing the activity of cells from the cued and uncued arms at different points during the experiment . For every spiking event we computed the mean rate for cells that would subsequently have fields on the cued arm compared to those with fields on the uncued arm . During REST1 and RUN1 the future cued and uncued arm cells did not differ in activity , this was true for both the first and second half of these periods  . However , during GOAL-CUE cued arm cells were significantly more active than uncued arm cells , an effect that was most pronounced during the first half  of the cueing period  . Importantly , control analyses showed that the bias in sequential preplay is not a mere product of differing activity levels of the cells for the two arms  . GOAL-CUE resultsDOI: http://dx . 019AnimalArm# spiking events# preplay events% preplay% chancep-valueR1838Cued50070 . 50Summary results from GOAL-CUE analysis # Spiking events = total number of spiking events recorded . # Preplay events = number of significant spiking events . % preplay = Proportion of the spiking events that qualified as preplay events  , expressed as a percentage . % chance = proportion of spiking events from the shuffled data that qualified as preplay events , expressed as a percentage . p-value = probability , derived from a binomial test , of obtaining the observed number of preplay events for each template given the chance level calculated from the shuffled data . Finally , to corroborate the results obtained from the rank-order analysis of spike sequences , we applied a Bayesian spatial reconstruction algorithm  to the data from the two rest sessions . In contrast to the rank-order method , which utilised only the first spike emitted by each cell , the Bayesian decoding approach used all spikes emitted during an event . The Bayesian decoding approach uses the spiking activity of all simultaneously recorded place cells to calculate the posterior probability of an animal being at any position in the environment , based on a Poisson spiking framework . The Bayesian decoder performed equally well on the cued and uncued arms  . Next , we applied the Bayesian decoding to spiking events during the rest sessions . First , we calculated the posterior probabilities for 5 ms non-overlapping bins , which generated a posterior probability matrix for each event  . A spiking event that reflects a constant speed run through the environment will show an increased posterior along a line in the decoded posterior matrix . Therefore , for each spiking event we fit a line that accounted for the maximum variance and calculated its goodness of fit  . To assess if that event represented a significant preplay event: we generated 1000 posterior probability matrices by shuffling the identities of cells included in the event , fit lines on all matrices , and calculated their goodness of fits . Events whose goodness of fits exceeded the 95th percentile of the shuffled distributions were labelled as preplay events . Again , during REST2 , we found preplay of the cued arm  but not of the uncued arm  . Moreover , neither the cued nor the uncued arm were significantly preplayed in REST1  . Thus , this alternative , more powerful , analysis replicates the exact same pattern of results as demonstrated by our main analysis; indicating that goal-triggered pre-activation of future place cell sequences is a robust and reliable phenomenon . Bayesian reconstruction confirms preferential cued arm preplay . Confusion matrices based on RUN2 data showing decoding accuracy for the cued  and uncued arms  . Columns show the mean posterior probability distribution across the arm ordered by the true position of the rat  . Decoding errors appear as power away from the identity diagonal—here both arms yield accurate estimates of the animal's position at all points on the track . Representative preplay events for the cued  and uncued  arms showing ,  the straight line trajectory that best fits the decoded event ( x-axis indicates time bin  within the event , y-axis position on arm , title indicates probability of obtaining a better trajectory by chance ) and ,  the null distribution of trajectory fits obtained by shuffling the cell identities for each event  . Proportion of spiking events categorised as preplay events for the cued and uncued arms in REST2 . Same as E but comparing preplay in REST1 and REST2 for the cued arm . Preplay of a visible , unvisited environment that has motivational relevance to an animal accords with various reports from neuropsychological and imaging studies indicating a crucial role for the hippocampus in processing future goals  , imagination , and future thinking  . Moreover , these findings agree with previous studies showing replay can be modulated by reward  but extend this modulatory influence to preplay of future , goal-oriented routes . In our data , sequences of place cells leading to and away from the goal were preplayed with similar frequency and occurred in both forward and reverse directions  . Plausibly the elevated proportion of preplay events we observed leading to the cued goal might also reflect route planning—especially given the animals' subsequent preference for the cued arm . However , preplay of sequences leading from the cued goal towards the stem are less easily explained . In the context of preplay , when the cued arm has not been physically visited , an intriguing possibility is that paths towards the goal might be simulated using forwards preplay then evaluated and learnt from during reverse preplay , in a manner similar to that proposed to exist for periods of exploration and post-exploration rest  . Recently several studies have described ‘de novo preplay’—preplay of environments that have yet to be experienced  —which is believed to reflect the activity of preconfigured cell ensembles  that subsequently become bound to sensory cues in the environment . We did not observe de novo preplay in the current experiment  . Although the origin of this discrepancy is unclear , we note that several other studies also do not find de novo preplay for a completely novel environment  . However , it seems likely that other environmental factors present here but absent in the do novo preplay studies  , such as the barrier , and visible but inaccessible arms , might have ameliorated this phenomenon . Indeed , the AUC analysis comparing spiking events recorded during REST1 against the stem template  was narrowly not significant  , suggesting that perhaps with more data or a simpler environment we might have found de novo preplay for the stem . In a similar vein one might also have expected to observe a background rate of de novo preplay for the uncued arm during REST2 . Again it seems possible that the complexity of the environment worked against such an effect in that the motivationally relevant cued arm was preplayed at the expense of the uncued arm . What remains to be understood is if this bias reflects an active process , simulating trajectories associated with the goal , or if the relevance of the cued arm simply allows it to more effectively capture preconfigured cell assemblies . In sum , our data indicates that preplay of an unvisited environment can be initiated in response to viewing that environment if it is relevant to future goals—features that were absent in previous studies investigating the formation of hippocampal representations for novel spaces  . Furthermore , although our data does not provide direct support for de novo preplay it also does not argue against it , and is consistent with the hypothesis that the hippocampus supports the construction of novel spatial experiences as suggested by other authors ( for example see Dragoi and Tonegawa  ) . These results are consistent with the notion that place cells form preconfigured assemblies or ‘charts’  —an active but unassigned chart being associated with the cued arm during GOAL-CUE , but do not preclude the possibility that place cell firing is driven in a feed-forward manner  . We conclude that these findings support the hypothesised role of preplay for preparation for future experiences  but extend it to simulating future experiences in environments yet to be actively explored . Finally , one animal  received one microdrive carrying four tetrodes of 12- µm wire targeted to the mEC and one carrying four tetrodes of 17- µm wire targeted to contralateral CA1 . The position and head direction of the rats were captured using an overhead video camera to record the position using a light-emitting diode  on the animals' head-stages  . The track consisted of 10 cm wide runways covered in black rubber , the stem was 222 cm long and the arms 200 cm from tip to tip . Initially , to prevent animals from accessing the arms , a barrier was placed on the stem 22 cm from the junction with the arms . To encourage even distribution of place fields along the track , textured local cues were placed along the stem and arms . These five different cues were sheets of: black rubber , grey cardboard , black polypropylene , plaster tape , and sandpaper each approximately 20 cm long and 10 cm wide . For rest periods , the animal was placed in a cylindrically shaped enclosure  with a towel placed in the bottom . The rest enclosure was located beside the track during rest periods , but was not present during the other periods . Prior to running on the track , animals were placed in the rest enclosure for at least 60 min—REST1  . During this period the animals' quiescence was assessed based on speed estimates , derived by measuring the movement of the LED attached to the animals' headstages . Following REST1 , RUN1 was initiated by placing the rats at the end of the stem facing away from the track . During RUN1 animals were encouraged to run up and down the stem by the experimenter rewarding alternate ends of the stem with rice grains . During this period animals were prevented from running onto the arms by the barrier . Once animals had completed 20 laps , the experimenter stopped baiting the stem and instead baited the end of one of the arms  , which was inaccessible yet visible to the animal  . The cued arm was counterbalanced between animals . The animals had good visual access to the inaccessible arms as they could see between the wooden dowels of the barrier . The experimenter stood by the end of the cued arm to elicit further interest . Following RUN1 , the animals were placed back into the rest enclosure for at least 60 min—REST2 . Following REST2 , animals were put back on the end of the stem facing away from the track . The barrier at the end of the stem was removed and the animals were allowed to traverse both the stem and arms in alternate L-shaped laps for each arm—RUN2 . On the first lap during RUN2 , animals were allowed to choose which arm they turned to when reaching the end of the stem . On subsequent laps animals were forced to alternate—a barrier  was placed at the junction of the T-maze to occlude each arm in turn , and was moved between trials by the experimenter . The animals completed 20 L-shaped laps for each arm . For each rest period , times where at least 15% of cells from a given template fired within 300 ms and were bound by at least 50 ms of silence were selected as ‘spiking events’  . If a single cell fired more than one spike within this period , the first spike was counted and other spikes disregarded . The extent to which templates were represented in the spiking events was assessed using template-matching  . Specifically , the temporal sequence of cells in spiking events and the order of their corresponding peaks in the template was compared . If future template sequences are preplayed in rest the order in which cells fire during spiking events would be expected to resemble the order in which they fire on the track . In other words , one would expect the spike sequence in events and in future template sequence to be more correlated than predicted by chance . To determine if each template was being significantly preplayed we compared the proportion of spiking events that individually correlated with that template with the proportion expected by chance  . Specifically , the Spearman's rank-order correlations between each spiking event and the current template was computed and the number yielding significant correlations  was recorded; these were labelled preplay events . Both positive as well as negative significant correlations were categorised as preplay events , as previous studies have reported that replay can reactivate a place cell sequence in the forward or reverse order  . Next , the sequence of spikes in each event was randomly permuted  100 times by randomly re-assigning cell IDs such that spikes from the same cell were never separated . For each permutation the Spearman's rank-order correlation and matching p-value were calculated , again the proportion of significant correlations was recorded; this value represented the proportion of preplay events expected by chance . Finally , the proportion of shuffled events that had a significant correlation with the future template sequence was compared to the number obtained for the unshuffled data using a one sample binomial test . To assess whether the cued arm was preplayed more than the uncued arm we directly compared the total number of events and number of preplay events , again using a binomial test . A similar approach was used for comparing number of preplay events in REST1 and REST2 . Namely , we assessed whether the AUC of the cumulative distribution of absolute correlations for each arm in each of the two rest sessions differed from their shuffle distribution . Specifically , for each arm and each period , we bootstrapped the population of absolute correlations obtained between templates and spiking events 10 , 000 times . On each iterations we computed the difference between the AUC of the cumulative distribution of the bootstrapped data vs the AUC of the bootstrapped shuffled data correlations , which had been obtained previously . To analyse preplay during GOAL-CUE we performed the same analysis for spiking events emitted while the animal was on the stem . Specifically , we only considered events recorded when an animal's velocity was below 10 cm/s and the animal was located within 20 cm  of the barrier . As an additional control for differences in the number of cells contributing to each template we repeated the analyses described above after first down-sampling each template to equate the number of cells  . Specifically , if the shortest template consisted of 20 cells while another template consisted of 30 cells , we randomly removed 10 cells from the longer template . We then ran the preplay analysis as before—estimating the number of preplay events for each down-sampled cued and uncued template and comparing them to each other and chance levels . A similar procedure was used to equate activity rates for cued and uncued templates during the two rest periods . Namely , the distribution of events , containing different numbers of cells , were equated for the different templates . For example , if one template had 50 events with 5 cells active and another only had 40 events , we randomly removed 10 events from the former template . As well as controlling for quiescent rate differences this analysis also controls for the number of events for each template . To analyse the temporal evolution of preplay across the entire experiment we used an alternative approach to the template-matching described above . This was done due to the short duration of the RUN1 and GOAL-CUE periods  , which limited the power of the template-matching approach . As an alternative , we computed the mean rate of future cued and uncued arm cells during spiking events for each half of all experimental periods  . If a cell was active on both arms we excluded it , unless the rate on one arm was at least twice as high as the rate on the other arm . To assess statistical significance of rate differences we bootstrapped the event rates for the cued and uncued arm cells 10 , 000 times . We then computed the mean ratio between the cued and uncued arm rates  for each bootstrap , and estimated the 95% confidence interval . To corroborate results obtained from the rank-order correlation between spikes and field position we also applied a Bayesian reconstruction algorithm to spike sequences recorded during events . Specifically during a time window  the spikes generated by N place cells was K =  , where ki was the number of spikes fired by the ith cell . ×e−Tαi  , where x indexes the 1 cm spatial bins defined on the arms of the apparatus and αi  is the firing rate of the ith place cell at position x , derived from RUN2 ratemaps . To compute the probability of the animals' position given the observed spikes we applied Bayes' rule , assuming a flat prior for position ( P  ) , to give:  P  =R ( ∏i=1Nαi  ki ) exp ( −T∑i=1Nαi  ) , where R is a normalising constant depending on T and the number of spikes emitted . To decode offline activity , posterior probability matrices were produced for events with ≥7 active cells using 5 ms non-overlapping time windows  . To assess the presence of preplay in each event we compared the goodness of fit of the best straight line trajectory with the best fits made to 1000 posterior probability matrices generated by shuffling the identities of cells included in the event . Events whose best fit line exceeded the 95th percentile of its own shuffled distribution we labelled as preplay events . To eliminate the possibility that poor cluster isolation might contribute to the observed preplay  , we analysed the cluster separation between every pair of place cells recorded from the same tetrode . Based on these features the squared Mahalanobis distance between that spike and the centre of another cluster was calculated , using the covariance matrix for all spikes belonging to the cluster . Clusters of spikes originating from a single cell but which have mistakenly been assigned to two or more cells will be identified by low a Mahalanobis distance and proximate place fields . To eliminate the possibility that preplay of the cued arm during REST2 merely reflects familiarity with the proximal portions of the cued arm during GOAL-CUE we assessed whether off-line spikes were more likely to be associated with the first half of the arm  vs the second half  . We computed the proportion of spikes representing proximal locations and assessed whether the proportion differed significantly  from what one would expect based on the place field distribution of the cued arm . We also repeated the same analysis for the uncued arm . Finally , to assess whether the distribution of preplayed locations  for the two arms differed significantly from a uniform distribution we used a two-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test . Finally , to assess place field stability on the cued and uncued arm we split the RUN2 session in half  and generated ratemaps for each half . We then calculated the correlation between the two ratemaps  and compared correlations obtained for the cued and uncued arms using a two-sample t-test . Two-tailed independent samples t-tests were used to compare power in the ripple-band during significant  and non-significant spiking events and to compare power during significant spiking events and periods outside of spiking events . Animals' interest in the cued arm during goal-cueing was assessed as follows . The portion of the stem within 20 cm of the barrier was notionally divided in two long-ways to yield a cued and uncued side . Finally , to express interest in the cued arm as a single behavioural measure , the difference between the time spent on the cued vs the uncued side was divided by the total time spent on that section of the track . Thus , a value above 0 indicates that an animal spent more time on cued side than the uncued side . As an additional measure of the animals' interest in the cued arm during the goal-cueing period we assessed the amount of time animals spent looking toward the cued arm  . Again , preference for the cued arm was expressed as a single behavioural measure by subtracting the amount of time spent with the head oriented towards the cued arm from the time spent with the head oriented towards the uncued arm and dividing by the total time spent with the head oriented towards either arm . Finally , to assess the animals' preference for the cued arm during the first lap of RUN2 , the difference between the time spent on the cued arm vs the uncued arm during the first 3 s following the animals' entry onto the arms was divided by the total time spent on either arm . "
"Leading strand DNA synthesis requires functional coupling between replicative helicase and DNA polymerase  enzymes , but the structural and mechanistic basis of coupling is poorly understood . This study defines the precise positions of T7 helicase and T7 DNAP at the replication fork junction with single-base resolution to create a structural model that explains the mutual stimulation of activities . Our 2-aminopurine studies show that helicase and polymerase both participate in DNA melting , but each enzyme melts the junction base pair partially . When combined , the junction base pair is melted cooperatively provided the helicase is located one nucleotide ahead of the primer-end . The synergistic shift in equilibrium of junction base pair melting by combined enzymes explains the cooperativity , wherein helicase stimulates the polymerase by promoting dNTP binding  , polymerase stimulates the helicase by increasing the unwinding rate-constant  , consequently the combined enzymes unwind DNA with kinetic parameters resembling enzymes translocating on single-stranded DNA . Moreover , the unwinding rates of isolated helicases decrease steeply with increasing GC percentage in the duplex DNA , therefore , assisting forces that destabilize the junction base pairs stimulate the helicase  . However , in the presence of an actively synthesizing replicative DNAP , the unwinding rates of the helicase become fast and GC independent  . Similarly , replicative DNAPs on their own have limited strand displacement synthesis activity , restricted to 4–6 base pairs in T7 DNAP  . The presence of helicase or single-stranded DNA-binding protein  inhibits processive excision of the nascent DNA and allows DNAP to catalyze fast and processive strand displacement synthesis  . Originally identified in prokaryotic systems  , this functional coupling between the helicase and DNAP is found also in eukaryotic replication systems  . The underlying theme of the helicase only unwinding models is that the helicase unwinds the duplex DNA creating ssDNA template for the DNAP and the DNAP traps the displaced ssDNA through DNA synthesis  . Recent studies of bacteriophage T7 and T4 DNAPs suggest alternative models indicating that DNAP aids the helicase by destabilizing the first few base pairs of the double-stranded  DNA  . Exonuclease mapping showed that T7 DNAP is located with the T7 helicase in close proximity to the fork junction and in a position to influence the junction base pairs  . To understand functional coupling between helicase and DNAP , we need to understand the basic mechanism of DNA unwinding by each enzyme . Similarly , there are no structures of replisomes with the exception of a small angle X-Ray scattering structure of the T7 helicase-T7 DNAP bound to ssDNA and primer template DNA , respectively  . However , the low-resolution structure in the absence of a replication fork DNA does not provide the location of the DNAP and helicase at the replication fork junction to understand which enzyme is involved in melting the base pair at the fork junction . In addition to structural questions such as the positioning of the helicase and DNAP at the replication fork , many aspects of the mechanism of functional coupling remain unexplored . Hence , the specific role of the helicase in stimulating the synthesis activity of DNAP remains unclear . As combined enzymes , T7 helicase and T7 DNAP exhibit highly coordinated catalysis , whereby helicase hydrolyzes one dNTP for every dNMP incorporated by the DNAP  . This implies that the two enzymes coordinate their steps of nucleotide binding ( 2′-deoxythymidine 5′-triphosphate  binding to T7 helicase and dNTP binding to T7 DNAP ) and catalysis  , but there is no model that explains how these steps are coupled between the two enzymes during active leading strand synthesis . The studies in this paper use a combination of 2-aminopurine  fluorescence and transient-state kinetics to investigate the unwinding mechanisms of T7 DNAP and T7 helicase as isolated enzymes and as combined enzymes . The kinetics indicates that DNAP and helicase use different mechanisms to unwind DNA , but the mechanisms when coupled generate an efficient replisome . In the replisome , T7 DNAP stimulates the helicase by increasing the unwinding kcat , and T7 helicase stimulates the DNAP by decreasing the dNTPs Km . The 2-AP studies probe DNA melting with single base pair resolution and show that the isolated enzymes are not as efficient at melting the fork junction as compared to the combined enzymes . However , T7 DNAP with its ability to melt two base pairs ahead of the primer-end positions T7 helicase two nucleotides ahead with efficient and synergistic melting of the junction base pair . The fluorescence intensity of fluorescein-labeled lagging strand is quenched by BHQ1 when the DNA is duplexed , but when the lagging strand is unwound by T7 DNAP + E . We find that T7 DNAP on its own does not unwind the 40 bp replication fork at fast rates , which is consistent with our previously reported gel-based studies showing T7 DNAP stalling after 4–6 base pairs synthesis  and this can be overcome by adding SSB  . Indeed , T7 DNAP fully unwinds the fork DNA with E . coli SSB were preassembled on the fork DNA , and DNA unwinding was initiated with dNTPs and Mg  in a stopped-flow instrument at 18°C . By preassembling the DNAP-SSB-DNA complex , we bypass the slow enzyme binding steps and synchronize the unwinding reactions . The unwinding rates of T7 DNAP  increase in a hyperbolic manner with increasing dNTPs concentrations with each of the GC forks  . This indicates that DNA unwinding-synthesis by T7 DNAP  is rate-limited by base pair separation at low-dNTPs concentrations , but not at high dNTPs . The first step is capture of the templating base  in the insertion site of the DNAP through translocation  , the second step is dNTP binding and base pairing with the templating-base  , and the third step is chemistry where dNMP is added , PPi is released , and the primer-end is elongated by one nucleotide  . The rate vs dNTPs dependencies of all GC forks fit well to this ordered three-step mechanism  with variable equilibrium constant for the base-capture step  , which we find decreases steadily with increasing GC percentage  . This means that the downstream DNA stability mainly affects the base-capture step , and DNAP is less efficient at capturing the templating-base when the stability of the duplex DNA is higher . However , the nearly GC-independent DNA unwinding kcat indicates that dNTP binding stabilizes the base-captured state and drives DNA unwinding , but higher concentrations of dNTPs are required with higher GC percentage in the downstream DNA . The unwinding rates of T7 helicase were measured using the same replication fork substrates , except fluorescein was moved to the end of the leading strand  and a GGG quencher was introduced opposite to the fluorescein in the lagging strand to ensure that the signal is quenched when the DNA is duplexed  . The fork DNA was incubated with T7 helicase in the presence of dTTP without Mg  to avoid assembly lags , and the unwinding reactions were initiated with Mg  and dT90 trap DNA . The kinetics were fit to the n-step model , and the average base pair unwinding rates were determined at various dTTP concentrations with all the GC forks  . Kinetic mechanism of DNA unwinding by T7 helicase . Replication fork DNA for the measurement of the unwinding kinetics of T7 helicase . Representative kinetic trace of DNA unwinding by T7 helicase  fit to the n-step model  . The unwinding rates against dTTP concentrations fit to Equation 4  to obtain the unwinding kcat and dTTP Km values . Schematic of the helicase model with random order of base-capture and dTTP binding . Kd , dTTP was fixed at 90 μM , which corresponds to the Km , dTTP for the helicase when translocating on ssDNA  . The dTTP dependency data for unwinding by the helicase on the 20–65% GC DNA were fit to the model A  model B  and model C  . The Km , dTTP was fixed at 90 μM in the fitting based on the Km , dTTP for the helicase when translocating on ssDNA substrate  . 009 Unlike T7 DNAP , the unwinding kcat of the helicase decreases from 65 bp/s to 15 bp/s with increasing GC percentage  , but the dTTP Km remains relatively unchanged and decreases only two-fold from 300 μM to 160 μM  . Thus , T7 helicase and T7 DNAP respond differently to increasing GC content , which indicates that their DNA-unwinding mechanisms are fundamentally different . T7 helicase moves on DNA through sequential nucleotide hydrolysis and translocation mechanism , where each subunit of the ring takes turn in binding the incoming nucleotide  . Therefore at any given time , only the leading subunit of T7 helicase binds an incoming dTTP and reels in the nucleotide base from the fork junction  . One , the leading helicase subunit binds to the nucleotide base from the fork junction  ; two , the leading subunit binds to a molecule of dTTP; and three , dTTP hydrolysis and product release ( 2′-deoxythymidine 5′-diphosphate  and Pi ) occur at distinct subunits around the hexameric ring  . Therefore , we considered all three models and our kinetic modeling shows that the rate vs dTTP data do not fit to models where dTTP binding and base-capture steps occur in a particular order  . We show that the dTTP-bound state is slightly better at capturing the DNA-base than the dTTP-free state  , but the equilibrium constants of the base-capture steps in the dTTP-free  and dTTP-bound  states both decrease with increasing GC percentage  , which indicates that the rate of unwinding by the helicase is limited by base pair separation even at high concentrations of dTTP . Our results demonstrate that the DNA-unwinding activity of T7 helicase and T7 DNAP is rate-limited by inefficient base-capture at the fork junction . Therefore , T7 DNAP is able to achieve fast rates of unwinding at high dNTPs , but this is not the case with the helicase , whose unwinding kcat remains suboptimal even at high-dTTP concentrations . We used the same replication fork substrates used in the DNAP experiments to investigate the unwinding mechanism of the combined T7 helicase and T7 DNAP enzymes  . In these experiments , helicase and DNAP were preassembled on the fork DNA using dTTP without Mg  , and unwinding was initiated with Mg  , dVTPs  , and dT90 trap DNA . The dip was observed with the isolated helicase and with helicase-DNAP functioning together  , but not with isolated DNAP . The kinetics of DNA unwinding by the combined helicase and DNAP enzymes . The replication fork DNA substrate and representative kinetic trace of DNA unwinding by the combined T7 DNAP and T7 helicase enzymes . The base pair unwinding rates of the combined enzymes at 5 µM dVTPs plotted against dTTP concentrations and fit to Equation 4  to obtain the maximal rate of unwinding  and Km for dTTP . The unwinding rates of the isolated helicase  and helicase-DNAP  were measured using the 50% GC fork at constant 5 μM dVTP and increasing dTTP concentrations . The unwinding rates of the isolated helicase  and helicase-DNAP  were measured using the 50% GC fork at 50 μM dVTP concentrations and increasing dTTP concentrations . coli SSB  or with T7 helicase  were measured using the 50% GC fork at 500 μM dTTP and increasing dNTPs concentrations . Unwinding-synthesis trace for helicase-DNAP . Representative trace showing time course of unwinding-synthesis by the helicase–polymerase on the 20% GC and 50% GC DNA substrate at 100 μM dTTP and 5 μM dVTP . This suggests that the first and second phase could represent the coupled and uncoupled activities of the helicase-DNAP , respectively . Representative trace showing time course of unwinding by the helicase at 500 μM dTTP on the 20% GC DNA . The presence of the dip in the helicase only reaction suggests that interaction of helicase with the fluorescein leads to a dip in the fluorescence signal once the strands are unwound . Together , these data indicate that the dip in the fluorescence signal could be due to  helicase interaction with the fluorescein and  coupled and uncoupled activities of the helicase-DNAP . 011 The unwinding rates of the combined enzymes measured at increasing dTTP and constant dVTPs concentration show little dependency on the GC percentage  . How does T7 DNAP stimulate the helicase ? The dTTP Km of the isolated helicase on the 50% GC fork is ∼160 μM , which decreases to ∼80 μM in the presence of T7 DNAP  , which is close to the dTTP Km on ssDNA  . Similarly , the unwinding kcat of the isolated helicase is ∼20 bp/s and increases substantially to ∼150 bp/s in the presence of T7 DNAP  , which is close to the translocation rate of the helicase on ssDNA   . Thus , T7 DNAP stimulates T7 helicase by increasing the DNA-unwinding kcat and by slightly decreasing the dTTP Km . The kinetic parameters of T7 helicase coupled to T7 DNAP resemble those of helicase translocating on ssDNA rather than unwinding duplex DNA . How does the helicase stimulate the DNAP ? The unwinding kcat  is 160 bp/s and decreases minimally to 140 bp/s in the presence of T7 helicase , whereas the dNTPs Km decreases by 24-fold from ∼120 μM  to 5 µM in the presence of T7 helicase  . The 5 μM dNTPs Km is slightly lower than the DNAP's dNTP Km on ssDNA template   . Thus , T7 helicase stimulates T7 DNAP by promoting dNTP binding , and in the presence of helicase , T7 DNAP behaves like a motor translocating on ssDNA template . In summary , by measuring the unwinding kinetics of the individual enzymes and comparing it to the combined enzymes , we determine how T7 helicase and T7 DNAP mutually stimulate each other's activity . The T7 DNAP stimulates the T7 helicase by increasing the unwinding kcat , whereas the helicase stimulates the DNAP by decreasing the dNTPs Km . When functioning independently , the lower kcat of the helicase and higher dNTPs Km of DNAP are due to inefficient capture of the nucleotide base from the fork junction . Because T7 helicase mainly uses dTTP as its substrate and the DNAP uses all dNTPs , we can change the concentrations of dTTP and dVTPs to control the speeds of helicase and DNAP , respectively . When the helicase rate is decreased by lowering dTTP , DNA unwinding slows down  . This implies that when helicase is slower than DNAP , the DNAP will not outrun the helicase . This means that when helicase is slower than DNAP , the combined enzymes remain functionally coupled . Functionally coupled and uncoupled helicase-DNAP . The unwinding rates of the combined helicase-DNAP were measured at 50 µM dTTP  or 500 µM dTTP  at increasing dVTPs concentration on the 50% GC fork . The bar chart shows the unwinding kcat and dVTPs Km of the combined enzymes at low-  and high-dTTP  concentrations . The unwinding rates of the combined enzymes  at zero dVTPs concentration are compared to the rates of helicase alone  at increasing dTTP concentrations on the 50% GC fork . The bar charts compare the unwinding kcat and dTTP Km of helicase-DNAP  and isolated helicase  . The cartoon show that stalling DNAP leads to functional uncoupling between helicase-DNAP with or without physical uncoupling . The DNA unwinding rates of the isolated helicase and helicase-DNAP were measured at 1 mM dTTP and 0 . The bar chart shows the unwinding rate of the isolated helicase  , helicase-DNAP complex  , and the predicted rate of DNA synthesis by helicase-DNAP assuming coupled synthesis  . 012 When DNAP cannot move forward due to lack of dNTPs , the associated helicase unwinds the replication fork with unstimulated rates  . This means that the stalled DNAP does not pull the helicase back or prevent it from unwinding the DNA . With stalled DNAP , the unwinding rate of the 50% GC fork is 20 bp/s , which is similar to the rate of helicase functioning independently  . Similarly , with the stalled DNAP , the dTTP Km of the helicase is ~130 μM , which is similar to the dTTP Km in the absence of DNAP   . Thus , stalling the DNAP functionally uncouples the helicase . When dVTPs concentrations are low  , the unwinding rate with the combined enzymes is similar to that of the isolated helicase  . This indicates that when T7 DNAP is slow , the helicase is capable of moving faster and can outrun the DNAP . To understand the structural basis for the mutual stimulation of helicase and DNAP , we used 2-AP as a probe to monitor base pair melting . When 2-AP is base-paired  , it has a low-fluorescence intensity , but when 2-AP:T base pair is melted and the 2-AP base is unstacked , the fluorescence increases  . However , there are no studies using this method to investigate base pair melting of downstream duplex DNA by replicative DNAPs or the helicase-DNAP complex . By systematically labeling the replication fork DNA with a single 2-AP probe at different positions near the fork junction  , we are able to determine the base pair melting footprint of the individual and combined enzymes and deduce the precise positions of the helicase and DNAP at the replication fork . Base pair melting by isolated and combined T7 DNAP and T7 helicase using 2-aminopurine fluorescence changes . Fluorescence intensities of 2-AP modified primer-template substrate without  and with T7 DNAP  . Fluorescence intensities of 2-AP modified replication fork substrates with and without T7 DNAP and T7 helicase . The cartoons show the structure of fork DNA before and after binding of combined T7 DNAP and T7 helicase enzymes . Determining optimal conditions for T7 DNAP and extent of influence of T7 DNAP on template bases in replication fork substrate . Effect of DNAP concentration on fluorescence emission of 2-AP in the +1 lag 1 gap substrate . Sample fluorescence intensity trace showing the effect of T7 DNAP binding to No gap replication fork DNA . Fluorescence intensities of replication fork DNAs with 2-AP at various indicated positions in the leading strand with and without T7 DNAP . The cartoons show the structure of fork DNA before and after binding of T7 DNAP . Base pair melting by combined SSB—DNAP using 2-AP fluorescence change . Fluorescence intensities of 2-AP modified replication fork substrates with and without T7 DNAP and E . The cartoons show the structure of fork DNA before and after binding of combined T7 DNAP and E . Each experiment had 100 nM DNA , 200 nM DNAP , and 200 nM SSB  . Sample fluorescence intensity trace showing the effect of helicase binding to No gap replication fork DNA . Fluorescence intensities of fork DNA with 2-AP in the lagging strand at the fork junction and increasing distance between primer end and fork junction with  and without T7 helicase  . The cartoons show the structure of fork DNA before and after binding of T7 helicase . Fluorescence intensities of 2-AP modified fork substrates with and without T7 Helicase and E . The cartoons show the structure of fork DNA before and after binding of combined T7 Helicase and E . Fork substrates with two single-stranded DNA overhangs were used in the experiments with SSB and helicase to provide a binding site for both enzymes on opposite strands . 018 The crystal structure of T7 DNAP  shows interactions with two template-bases  immediately downstream of the primer-end at positon N and ∼90o bend between N + 1 and N + 2 template-bases  . However , there is no increase in fluorescence of 2-AP at N + 2 and a decrease is observed at N + 3  , which is consistent with interactions of these template DNA-bases with the amino acids in the template-binding pocket of T7 DNAP  . The change in 2-AP fluorescence at positions N + 4 and N + 5 is minimal upon DNAP binding , which indicates that T7 DNAP may not interact with these downstream positions . Experiments with 2-AP at N + 1 to N + 3 positions on the leading strand show that T7 DNAP makes similar interactions with the template-bases in replication fork substrates  . To determine if T7 DNAP unwinds the duplex DNA downstream of the primer-end , we introduced 2-AP at various positions in the lagging strand in the replication fork substrates . The fluorescence intensity increases upon adding T7 DNAP when 2-AP is at the N + 1 , N + 2 , or N + 3 base pair , but not at N + 4  . Similarly , when 2-AP is at N + 2 and is part of the fork junction , addition of T7 DNAP increases the fluorescence  . However , when 2-AP is at N + 3 and is part of the fork junction , no increase in fluorescence is observed  , which indicates that T7 DNAP does not melt the junction base pair three nucleotides downstream from the primer-end . Taken together , these results indicate that T7 DNAP binds to three template-bases downstream of primer-end and melts two base pairs . These results indicate that T7 DNAP on its own only partially melts the junction base pairs . This provides direct proof that T7 DNAP can melt the junction base pair , but DNAP is not efficient at preventing base pair reannealing; thus , SSB stimulates the activity of DNAP by trapping the unwound bases . The 2-AP experiments with T7 helicase were carried out in the presence of dTMPPCP , the non-hydrolyzable dTTP analog , which does not support translocation or processive DNA unwinding , but is needed for hexamer formation and DNA binding  . However , T7 helicase increases the fluorescence of 2-AP at the fork junction , but not the second base pair from the junction , irrespective of the gap size between the primer end and fork junction  . Thus , unlike T7 DNAP that melts two base pairs upon binding to the replication fork substrate , T7 helicase melts only the junction base pair . However , T7 helicase melts the junction base pair even when the primer-end is separated from the fork junction by more than one nucleotide  . These results indicate that T7 helicase follows the fork junction and is not influenced by the position of the primer-end . Interestingly , SSB has no effect on the helicase catalyzed melting of the fork junction  . This is consistent with the observation that SSB does not stimulate the unwinding rates of the helicase  . To investigate the effect of T7 DNAP and T7 helicase together on junction base pair melting , we measured 2-AP fluorescence after sequential addition of helicase and DNAP to the fork DNA in that order and the reverse order  . As shown earlier with the DNAP , the increase in N + 3 is due to N + 2 base unstacking; therefore , the results indicate that the combined enzymes melt two base pairs downstream from the primer-end , just like T7 DNAP , but more efficiently . The small increase in fluorescence intensity with the isolated helicase and DNAP suggests that each enzyme shifts the equilibrium only moderately to the base-pair melted state . Interestingly , the combined effect of helicase and DNAP on base pairs melting is greater than the sum , which indicates synergism in DNA melting . The results also demonstrate that a replication fork with two ssDNA template-bases between the primer-end and fork junction can stably accommodate both enzymes of the T7 replisome . Therefore , this study defines the specific positions of helicase and DNAP at the replication fork junction with single-base resolution to create a structural model of the replisome  that forms the basis for understanding how the helicase and DNAP mutually stimulate each other's activities as discussed below . The top cartoon of T7 replisome results after melting of the N + 2 base pair by helicase and DNAP . The N + 1 base of the leading strand is bound in the insertion site and serves as the templating nucleotide for the incoming dNTP , and the N + 2 is unstacked and bound in the template-binding channel of the DNAP . Stable binding to N + 2 base by the helicase triggers dTTP hydrolysis and products release at different subunits of the ring . When N is elongated by one nucleotide , the N + 2 moves into the insertion site after PPi release , and the helicase and DNAP cooperatively melt the N + 3 junction base pair , as shown in the bottom cartoon . When DNAP is in the post-translocated state , the N + 1 templating base  is positioned in the polymerase active site ready to base pair with the incoming dNTP  . After the chemical step , the DNAP translocates downstream by one nucleotide to position the next templating-base N + 2  in the active site  . Based on our results , we propose that the DNAP by itself is not efficient at preventing junction base pair reannealing , and this unfavorable equilibrium constant for DNA melting destabilizes the post-translocated state of DNAP and competes with incoming dNTP binding . When helicase is present at the fork junction , it helps both unwind and trap the junction bases . Thus , the associated helicase stimulates dNTP binding by stabilizing the post-translocated state of T7 DNAP , and the outcome is decrease in dNTPs Km . The helicase by itself is not efficient at unwinding the fork junction . However , the associated DNAP by providing an unwound base to the helicase at the fork junction facilitates the base-capture step and drives the reactions of dTTP binding-hydrolysis-product release around the helicase ring , and the outcome is an increase in the unwinding kcat . The combined binding energy of the two enzymes bound to opposite strands is sufficient to keep the unwound bases from reannealing , explaining the fast and GC-independent unwinding rates of helicase-DNAP . Interestingly , cooperative and enhanced efficiency of base pair melting is observed only when the helicase and DNAP are within one nucleotide distance from each other . In most cases , helicase is coupled physically to the DNAP , either directly as in the case of T7 replication system or indirectly through accessory proteins  . Some of these interactions aid in the assembly of the replisome  and perhaps in proper positioning of the helicase with the DNAP in the replisome , but the consequences of breaking physical interactions on synergistic melting need to be investigated . Our investigation of such situations reveals that when DNAP stalls or is the slower motor , the helicase becomes functionally uncoupled and outruns the DNAP by unwinding the replication fork at the unstimulated rates . Whether the functionally uncoupled helicase remains physically coupled to the DNAP remains unknown . Interestingly , when the helicase slows down , the two enzymes remain functionally coupled as evident from the low dNTPs Km and that the DNAP does not outrun the helicase . In this case , the combined enzymes unwind the DNA with the stimulated rate of the helicase . Although SSB stimulates base pair melting by T7 DNAP , our studies find that the unwinding rates of T7 DNAP with SSB remain GC-sensitive at low-dNTPs concentrations . We propose that this is because SSB cannot trap the junction bases coordinately with DNA synthesis in the manner that T7 helicase does during leading strand synthesis . Similarly , it has been shown previously that SSB does not increase the unwinding rates of T7 helicase , which remain GC sensitive at all concentrations of dTTP  . These observations indicate that simply trapping the displaced strand by DNA binding is not sufficient , but coordination between the steps of junction base pair unwinding/trapping and synthesis is needed for rate acceleration . The interdependency between helicase and DNAP assures that the DNA is not unwound in an uncoupled manner leading to disruption in the coordinated synthesis of the two strands . Our studies suggest that the leading edges of the T7 helicase and T7 DNAP are close together at the fork junction and this conformation is important for functional coupling of unwinding and synthesis reactions and preventing DNA reannealing . This model of the replication fork is likely to be generally applicable to replisomes of prokaryotes as most show functional coupling between helicase and DNAP  . In contrast to prokaryotic replisomes , the replicative helicase of eukaryotes and archaea binds to the same strand as the DNAP  . In this case , both helicase and DNAP cannot be close to the fork junction , and there must be other mechanisms to functionally couple the two activities and prevent junction base pair reannealing . It is possible that although the MCM2-7 helicase encircles the leading strand , other subunits in the CMG  complex may interact with the lagging strand and this could be a mechanism for preventing DNA reannealing at the fork junction  . Reaction buffer A for the helicase and helicase-DNAP experiments contained 50 mM Tris acetate , pH 7 . For the helicase assays , a mixture of fork DNA , T7 helicase , dTTP , and EDTA from syringe A was mixed with Mg  , dVTPs  , and dT90 trap from syringe B to initiate the reaction . For the T7 DNAP-unwinding assays , a mixture of fork DNA , T7 DNAP , and E . Reaction buffer B was used in the T7 DNAP-unwinding assays as SSB was observed to precipitate in buffer A . The final concentrations of enzymes and DNA were 10 nM fork DNA , 20 nM T7 helicase hexamer , 20 nM T7 DNAP , 200 nM E . The experiments were carried out with 100 nM DNA , 200 nM T7 helicase  , 200 nM T7 DNAP/thioredoxin   , and 10 μM dTMP-PCP at 25°C . A sample trace showing the effect of DNAP and helicase binding to a 2-AP DNA substrate is shown in Figure 5—figure supplements 1C , 2C . "
"Estradiol induces negative feedback on pulsatile GnRH/luteinizing hormone  release and positive feedback generating preovulatory GnRH/LH surges . Negative and positive feedbacks are postulated to be mediated by kisspeptin neurons in arcuate and anteroventral periventricular  nuclei , respectively . Kisspeptin-specific ERα knockout mice exhibit disrupted LH pulses and surges . Mice with ERα disruption in AVPV kisspeptin neurons have typical reproductive cycles but blunted LH surges , associated with decreased excitability of these neurons . Mice with ERα knocked down in arcuate kisspeptin neurons showed disrupted cyclicity , associated with increased glutamatergic transmission to these neurons . These observations suggest that activational effects of estradiol regulate surge generation and maintain cyclicity through AVPV and arcuate kisspeptin neurons , respectively , independent from its role in the development of hypothalamic kisspeptin neurons or puberty onset . Estradiol , via estrogen receptor alpha  , plays crucial roles in both homeostatic negative feedback and positive feedback action on GnRH/LH release in females  . Low estradiol levels suppress pulsatile GnRH/LH release , whereas sustained elevations in estradiol during the late follicular phase of the cycle cause a switch of estradiol feedback action from negative to positive , inducing prolonged GnRH/LH surges , which ultimately triggers ovulation  . As GnRH neurons typically do not express detectable ERα  , estradiol feedback is likely transmitted to GnRH neurons by ERα-expressing afferents . Kisspeptin neurons in the arcuate and anteroventral periventricular  regions are estradiolsensitive GnRH afferents that are postulated to mediate estradiol negative and positive feedback , respectively  . Kisspeptin potently stimulates GnRH neurons and Kiss1 mRNA is differentially regulated in these nuclei by estradiol  . ERα in kisspeptin cells is critical for estradiol negative and positive feedback , as kisspeptin-specific ERα knockout  mice exhibit higher frequency LH pulses and fail to exhibit estradiol-induced LH surges  . First , ERα is deleted as soon as Kiss1 is expressed , before birth in arcuate kisspeptin neurons  and before puberty in AVPV kisspeptin neurons  . Second , ERα is deleted from all kisspeptin cells , thus making it impossible to assess independently the role of AVPV and arcuate kisspeptin neurons . We designed Cre-dependent AAV vectors that carry single guide RNAs  that target Esr1  or lacZ and delivered these vectors to the AVPV or arcuate of adult female mice that express Cas9 in kisspeptin cells . We then compared the reproductive phenotypes as well as kisspeptin neuronal physiology in AAV-Esr1 vs AAV-lacZ targeted mice and KERKO mice . We first used extracellular recordings to monitor the spontaneous firing rate of YFP-identified AVPV kisspeptin neurons in coronal brain slices from ovary-intact control and KERKO mice . As the persistent cornified vaginal cytology of KERKO mice is similar to that observed during estrus  , we used mice in the estrous stage of the reproductive cycle as controls . The firing frequency of AVPV kisspeptin neurons was lower in ovary-intact KERKO mice compared to controls  . To test if the firing rate of AVPV kisspeptin neurons in KERKO mice responds to circulating estradiol , we repeated this study in ovariectomized  mice and OVX mice with an estradiol implant producing constant physiologic levels   . OVX reduced and estradiol treatment increased firing rate in cells from control , but not KERKO , mice  . As a result of this difference , the firing frequency is higher in cells from OVX + E control than OVX + E KERKO mice  . AVPV kisspeptin neurons in control mice mice exhibit a greater number of depolarization-induced bursts  and rebound bursts when estradiol is elevated , confirming previous observations   . In KERKO mice , these two types of bursts were rare  in all steroid conditions tested and were not regulated by estradiol  . Cells from ovary-intact KERKO mice generated fewer action potentials compared to controls . Action potential generation as a function of current injection was similar in cells from OVX control and OVX KERKO mice but was increased by estradiol only in control mice  . Reduced action potential firing of AVPV kisspeptin neurons from KERKO mice may be attributable at least in part to decreased input resistance compared to controls  . IT current density was decreased in AVPV kisspeptin cells from gonad-intact KERKO mice compared to controls  . The voltage dependence of activation was not different between groups , but the voltage dependence of inactivation was depolarized in cells from KERKO mice  . A caveat of studying the role of ERα in AVPV kisspeptin neurons using KERKO mice is that the deletion of ERα  using cre recombinase under the control of the kisspeptin promoter is neither time- nor location-specific . We utilized the CRIPSR-Cas9 approach to achieve temporal and spatial control of Esr1 gene knockdown . Two sgRNAs were designed that target exon1 of Esr1 based on software prediction  ; sites predicted by FengZhang’s guide design software  as possible off-target regions for binding of these guides are listed in Table 3 . The sgRNAs that target Esr1 and a sgRNA that targets lacZ as a control were subcloned into the lentiCRISPRv2 plasmid  , from which Cas9 and the sgRNA are expressed after transfection of C2C12 cells . Cells expressing either of the sgRNAs targeting Esr1 , but not lacZ , exhibited a peak-on-peak sequencing pattern , indicating disruption of the gene  . As these in vitro experiments suggested these sgRNAs were able to mutate Esr1 , we designed Cre-dependent AAV vectors to express each sgRNA and mCherry  under control of the U6 promoter  . The AAV vector was bilaterally stereotaxically injected into the AVPV region of adult female mice that express Cas9 and GFP under control of the kisspeptin promoter  ; these groups are referred to as AVPV-AAV-Esr1 or AVPV-AAV-lacZ . The ERα knockdown efficiency of the two sgRNAs target Esr1 was comparable . The infection rate for AVPV-AAV-Esr1 was 81 ± 4%  and only 28 ± 1% of AVPV kisspeptin cells expressed ERα post infection  . In mice that received AVPV-AAV-lacZ  , the infection rate was comparable at 82 ± 2% , but there was no disruption of ERα; 72 ± 2% of AVPV kisspeptin neurons expressed ERα , which is similar to control mice  . We monitored the reproductive cycles of the mice injected with AAV-sgRNAs in the AVPV 12 days before and for up to eight weeks following surgery . Neither AVPV-AAV-Esr1 guide  nor the AVPV-AAV-lacZ disrupted reproductive cyclicity  , even in mice with a high rate of bilateral infection  . To test for the occurrence of estradiol-positive feedback , we monitored both proestrous  and estradiol-induced LH surges in these mice . Both proestrous and estradiol-induced LH surges were blunted after ERα knockdown  . There were fewer corpra lutea  in mice with Esr1 guides targeted to the AVPV  . Of note , variation was high in the Esr1 mice , with two looking similar to controls , two having fewer CL and two not having any CL . To test if knockdown of ERα in adult AVPV kisspeptin neurons alters their intrinsic excitability , we recorded firing signatures of infected and uninfected cells in brain slices from AAV injected OVX + E mice . We again observed no difference between AVPV-AAV-Esr1 g1 vs g2 and combined these data . Cells not infected with AVPV-AAV-Esr1 and cells infected with either AVPV-AAV-Esr1 guide but in which ERα protein was detected exhibited similar firing signatures in terms of DIB and rebound bursts  . In contrast , cells infected by AVPV-AAV-Esr1 that had undetectable ERα protein had reduced burst firing compared to AVPV-AAV-lacZ or uninfected groups  . The firing signature of AAV-Esr1-infected cells with successful deletion of ERα was comparable to cells from KERKO mice  . Cells that lost detectable ERα after AVPV-AAV-Esr1 infection also produced fewer action potentials with current injection than cells infected with AAV-lacZ  . The relationship between current injection and number of action potentials fired  in cells from KERKO and in AVPV-AAV-Esr1 knockdown mice was only different at the highest level of current injected , with AVPV-AAV-Esr1-infected cells being less excitable  , despite no change in input resistance  . Action potential properties from AVPV-AAV-Esr1 knockdown cells with AVPV-AAV-lacZ control also differed . In parallel , we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recording with single-cell PCR post hoc identification of Esr1 mRNA on a separate set of cells  . A similar decrease in burst firing and action potential input-output curve was observed in Esr1 mRNA negative cells as was observed in cells verified to have undetectable ERα protein by immunofluorescence  . Absence of Esr1 mRNA expression was again associated with decreased number of action potentials in response to current injection  . Absence of Esr1 mRNA , similar to loss of ERα protein , led to decreased action potential rate of rise , prolonged FWHM , and AHP  . Single-cell PCR analysis also indicates that a lower percent of AVPV-AAV-Esr1 knockdown cells express Kiss1 and a trend to increase in Esr2 mRNA  . To examine the role of estradiol feedback on arcuate kisspeptin neurons , we delivered the AAV-sgRNAs bilaterally to the arcuate region to knockdown ERα in these cells  ; these groups are referred to as Arc-AAV-Esr1 or Arc-AAV-lacZ . The infection rate for Arc-AAV-Esr1 was 92 ± 3%  and only 34 ± 3% of KNDy neurons expressed ERα post infection  . In mice that received Arc-AAV-lacZ , the infection rate was comparable  , and 92 ± 1% of KNDy neurons expressed ERα , similar to control mice  . In contrast to mice with Arc-AAV-Esr1 targeted to the AVPV region , mice with the same virus targeted to the arcuate began exhibiting disrupted cyclicity three to four weeks post surgery  . There was no difference in LH pulse frequency measured on the day of estrus or mean levels between Arc-AAV-Esr1 vs Arc-AAV-lacZ injected mice on estrus  . Notably , LH response to kisspeptin and to GnRH was reduced in Arc-AAV-Esr1 mice  . Arcuate kisspeptin neurons are postulated to form an interconnected network that is steroid sensitive and utilizes glutamatergic transmission at least in part for intranetwork communication  . We thus hypothesized that loss of ERα specifically from arcuate kisspeptin neurons would increase their spontaneous firing rate and increase glutamatergic transmission to these cells , similar to what is observed in these cells in KERKO mice  . As Arc-AAV-Esr1 knockdown mice spend the most time in estrus , similar to KERKO mice , we used estrus as the reproductive stage to examine the short-term  firing frequency of these neurons and AMPA-mediated excitatory glutamatergic postsynaptic currents  . The firing frequency of Arc-AAV-Esr1 infected cells was not different from Arc-AAV-lacZ infected cells  even though there tends to be more cells firing at >1 Hz in the Arc-AAV-Esr1 group compared to the Arc-AAV-lacZ group  . In contrast , the frequency and amplitude of glutamatergic EPSCs in arcuate kisspeptin cells in Arc-AAV-Esr1 infected mice was greater than in the Arc-AAV-lacZ group  . This study examined the roles of two hypothalamic kisspeptin neuronal populations in mediating estradiol feedback from cellular , molecular and whole-body physiology perspectives . We utilized both conventional kisspeptin-specific ERα knockout mice  and CRISPR-Cas9-based viral vector-mediated knockdown of Esr1 . The latter approach allows both temporal control and nucleus-specific manipulations to distinguish the role of ERα within each population in negative and positive feedback regulation of LH release and neurobiological properties  . AVPV kisspeptin neurons are postulated to convey estradiol positive feedback signals to generate the GnRH surge . AVPV kisspeptin cells in both KERKO and AVPV-AAV-Esr1 models are less excitable compared to controls , firing fewer bursts and single action potentials in response to the same current injection . Results from the AVPV-AAV-Esr1 model support and extend data from KERKO mice and provide evidence towards accepting the hypothesis that the role of ERα in shifting excitability is activational , independent of its role in the development of these cells  . Kisspeptin expression in AVPV cells is estradiol activated and fewer cells expressing Kiss1 mRNA are detected in this region in KERKO mice  . In AVPV-AAV-Esr1 mice with adult knockdown , we also observed fewer cells express Kiss1 mRNA compared to AVPV-AAV-lacZ mice , further supporting an activational role for estradiol in the adult physiology of these cells . The inability to sense estradiol through ERα in AVPV kisspeptin neurons may reduce production and release of kisspeptin and ultimately impair the downstream GnRH/LH surge . This could explain the blunted LH surges in AVPV-AAV-Esr1 injected mice . Esr1 knockdown in the AVPV , however , did not alter reproductive cyclicity monitored by changes in vaginal cytology . It is possible that sufficient estradiol is produced during these cycles to induce vaginal cytology , but not to trigger an LH surge . It is important to point out , however , that estradiol-induced LH surges , in which an established dose of estradiol was provided to the mouse , were also blunted in AVPV-AAV-Esr1 mice . This latter observation suggests that inappropriate response of the neuroendocrine system to estradiol is , at least in part , responsible for the blunting of the LH surge . With regard to the continuation of estrous cycles in the AVPV-AAV-Esr1 mice , typical function of the remaining ERα-positive AVPV kisspeptin neurons may be sufficient to drive maintain cyclicity . Alternatively , cyclicity and the associated changes in sex steroids may be controlled by other cells that express ERα . In support of a non-AVPV kisspeptin neuronal population being a primary driver of estrous cyclicity , several reproductive phenotypes of KERKO and AVPV-targeted ERα knockdown mice are different . KERKO mice tend to exhibit prolonged vaginal cornification and enlarged uteri , neither of which were observed in mice in which AAV-Esr1 infection was targeted to the AVPV  . In contrast , prolonged estrus and enlarged uteri were observed in mice in which Arc-AAV-Esr1 infection was targeted to arcuate kisspeptin neurons . Changes in episodic GnRH frequency drive gonadotropins and thus follicle development and steroidogenesis , including the estradiol rise , which triggers positive feedback and changes in vaginal cytology . Long-term firing output of arcuate kisspeptin neurons in brain slices is episodic and steroid modulated  , and activation of these cells in vivo generates a pulse of LH release  . Further evidence comes from Tac2-specific ERα KO mice , in which ERα is primarily deleted from the arcuate , not the AVPV , kisspeptin population . We thus hypothesize that ERα in arcuate kisspeptin neurons contributes to maintaining pulsatile LH release and mediates central estradiol negative feedback . Consistent with this postulate , partial  adult knockdown of ERα in these cells altered the reproductive cycle . As KERKO mice exhibit increased LH-pulse frequency , we were initially surprised we did not observe differences in pulse frequency or mean LH levels in mice receiving Arc-AAV-Esr1 . It is also possible that the pulse frequency during diestrus differs between Arc-AAV-Esr1 and Arc-AAV-lacZ mice . Despite this lack of statistical difference in LH-pulse frequency , ERα knockdown mice had a markedly reduced response to IP injection of both kisspeptin and GnRH , similar to KERKO mice  . This suggests loss of ERα function in arcuate kisspeptin neurons may disrupt GnRH neuronal response to kisspeptin and/or the pituitary response to GnRH . Dissection of the electrophysiological properties of arcuate kisspeptin neurons revealed that glutamatergic transmission to these neurons was elevated when ERα is knocked down . The observation that targeted reduction of ERα in arcuate kisspeptin neurons increases glutamatergic transmission further suggests interconnections among these cells provide many of their glutamatergic inputs . The lack of change in mean firing rate may reflect the partial deletion of ERα in this population , with lower firing rate being preserved in cells with ERα , and elevated EPSC frequency arising at least in part from the high firing cells . It is also possible that long-term firing patterns of these Arc-AAV-Esr1 infected arcuate kisspeptin neurons , which may be associated with episodic neuroendocrine activity , are disrupted . These data support the idea that glutamatergic inputs to arcuate kisspeptin neurons play an important role on maintaining normal reproductive function . To address this , we independently tested two sgRNAs that target Esr1 to address the possible off-target effects among groups . Because of the nature of the nonhomologous end joining repair machinery activated after CRISPR-Cas9-initiated cuts , Esr1 gene editing in each cell varies . Despite these variables , in the present study the systemic and cellular phenotypes in Esr1 guide1 vs guide2 infected mice were quite consistent . In conclusion , utilizing CRISPR-Cas9 AAV , we were able to successfully knockdown ERα in specific populations of kisspeptin neurons in adult female mice . Knockdown in each population recapitulated part of the KERKO model and furthers our understanding the role ERα in that population in regulating estradiol feedback . To delete ERα specifically from all kisspeptin cells  , mice with the Cre recombinase gene knocked-in after the Kiss1 promoter  were crossed with mice with a floxed Esr1 gene , which encodes ERα   . The expression of Cre recombinase mediates deletion of ERα in kisspeptin cells  . To visualize kisspeptin neurons for recording , mice heterozygous for both Kiss-Cre and floxed ERα were crossed with Cre-inducible YFP mice . Crossing mice heterozygous for all three alleles yielded litters that contained some mice that were homozygous for floxed ERα and at least heterozygous for both Kiss1-Cre and YFP; these were used as KERKO mice . Littermates of KERKO mice with wild-type Esr1 , Kiss1-Cre YFP  were used as controls; no differences were observed among these controls and they were combined . pyogenes Cas9  -expressing mice , mice with the Cre recombinase gene knocked-in after the Kiss1 promoter  were crossed with mice that have Cre recombinase-dependent expression of CRISPR-associated protein 9  endonuclease , a 3X-FLAG epitope tag and eGFP directed by a CAG promoter . KERKO mice have disrupted estrous cycles with persistently cornified vaginal cytology typical of estrus; we thus used females in estrus as controls . For free-floating immunochemistry staining , mice were perfused at 1700 EST 2-3d post OVX +E surgery at the expected peak of the estradiol-induced LH surge . To minimize off-targeting effects and maximize sgRNA activity , two CRISPR design tools were used to evaluate sgRNAs  targeting the first coding exon of mouse Esr1 . Because g1 and g2 were similarly effective in Esr1 knockdown and effects on cycles , mice were combined for physiology studies . Selected cells were harvested , DNA isolated using the Qiagen DNA Extraction Kit , and sequenced with primers for Esr1 . After PCR amplification , the ligation product containing mCherry-U6 promoter-sgRNA scaffold was cloned in reverse orientation into a hSyn  promoter driven Cre-inducible AAV vector backbone  . All three AAV viral vectors were prepared in AAV8 serotype at University of North Carolina Vector Core . Kiss1Cre/Cas9-GFP female animals  were checked for estrous cycles for >10 days before surgery; only mice with regular 4–5 day cycles were used . The other kisspeptin region in the hypothalamus was examined and no infection of kisspeptin cell bodies was observed . For current-clamp recordings , depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current injections  were applied from an initial membrane potential of −71 ± 2 mV , near the resting membrane potential of these cells  . For voltage-clamp recordings of excitatory postsynaptic currents  , membrane potential was held at −68 mV , the reversal potential for GABAA-receptor mediated currents , and ACSF contained picrotoxin  , and D-APV  . To remove HVA contamination from the step to −30 mV , a second protocol was used in which removal of inactivation  was followed by a 250 ms prepulse at −40 mV , then a step for 250 ms at −30 mV and finally a test pulse of −40 mV for 250 ms . IT was isolated by subtracting the trace following the −40 mV prepulse from those obtained after the −110 mV prepulse for the depolarized variable step to −30 mV; raw traces from the initial voltage protocol were used without subtraction for variable steps from −110 mV to −40 mV because of the lack of observed activation of HVA at these potentials . The pipette solution containing neurobiotin was used for recordings cells from AAV-injected mice . Single-cell RNA was harvested from the target cells in whole-cell configuration after recording membrane response in current-clamp; cytoplasm was aspirated into the pipette and expelled into a 0 . Single-cell cDNA was assayed for: Kiss1 , TH , Esr1 , Esr2 , Pgr , Cacna1g , Cacna1h , Cacna1i , Hcn1 Hcn2 Hcn3 Hcn4; Syn1 was used as housekeeping gene; only Syn1-positive cells were analyzed . Ovary-intact Kiss1Cre-Cas9 adult female mice with AAV-lacZ and AAV-Esr1 targeted to the arcuate nucleus were singly-housed were handled daily ≥4 wks before sampling . As the majority of AAV-Esr1 arcuate targeted mice  exhibit prolonged cornification typical of estrus , all mice  were sampled during estrus . At the end of this frequent sampling period , mice received a single intraperitoneal injection of kisspeptin   . GnRH   was injected 40–45 min after kisspeptin , with blood collected immediately before and 15 min after GnRH injection . Ovary-intact Kiss1Cre-Cas9 adult female mice with AAV-lacZ and AAV-Esr1 targeted to the AVPV were singly-housed . For each electrophysiological parameter comparison , no more than three cells per mouse was used in control and KERKO mice; no more than four cells per mouse was used for AAV-infected mice . For IF staining , LH surge and LH pulse measurements , and reproductive cyclicity , at least three mice were tested per AAV vector . "
"Our measurements establish that both bacterial and human Hsp70 chaperones interact with clients by selecting the unfolded state from a pre-existing array of interconverting structures , suggesting a conserved mode of client recognition among Hsp70s and highlighting the importance of molecular dynamics in this recognition event . Hsp70 interacts with client substrates via an ATP-dependent chaperone cycle that is tightly regulated by Hsp40 co-chaperones and nucleotide exchange factors   . Substrates are brought to the cycle by either Hsp40 or ATP-bound Hsp70 and typically undergo multiple rounds of binding and release before either folding to the native state or being transferred to downstream chaperone systems such as GroEL/ES and ClpB  or Hsp90 and Hsp104  . Crystal  and NMR structures  of peptide-bound SBDs establish that the substrate binds in an extended conformation , with a 4–5 amino acid core of the substrate forming backbone hydrogen bonds as well as hydrophobic contacts with chaperone residues Val 436 , Ile 401 and Ile 438 that line the SBD binding pocket  . The hydrophobic nature of the central binding pocket governs the preference of Hsp70 for substrate sequences enriched in large aliphatic hydrophobic sidechains such as Ile , Leu and Val  . Studies on full length protein substrates have revealed that these are globally unfolded in the Hsp70-bound state  and lack long-range interactions  , though they can form local residual native  and non-native secondary structure  in regions far from the Hsp70 binding site . The ability of Hsp70 to recognize commonly occurring sequences in typical proteins with a frequency of about 1 in 40 residues makes it a promiscuous interactor  , generating a highly heterogeneous Hsp70-substrate ensemble that ensures the efficient search of conformational space for an optimal folding pathway  . The structures of the Hsp70 chaperone in its ATP   and ADP states   are substantially different and the conformational switch that occurs in Hsp70 upon ATP hydrolysis has been hypothesized to perform conformational work on the bound substrate and alter its structure  . Contrary to this hypothesis , NMR studies by our group have shown that the dominant native  and bound conformations of a substrate can be significantly different despite the fact that the structure of the substrate in the ADP-bound , ATP-bound and nucleotide-free forms of Hsp70 are identical , showing that ATP hydrolysis does not have to be coupled to a substrate conformational change in the Hsp70 chaperone system  . For example , the binding of Hsp70 to the clathrin triskelion that leads to downstream uncoating of a clathrin-coated vesicle has been postulated to occur via local conformational fluctuations in individual clathrin molecules that transiently expose the Hsp70 binding site  . For example , in order to establish that a particular binding interaction occurs via CS , it is necessary both to demonstrate that a very similar conformation to that in the bound state is sampled in the absence of the binder and to show that the formation of the complex occurs primarily via a kinetic pathway whereby the conformation of the ligand that resembles the bound form is selected for binding . Herein , in an effort to further characterize how Hsp70 chaperones bind to cognate substrates , we address which of the competing pathways , CS or IF , better explains the binding interaction between Hsp70 and its targets . We have carried out equilibrium measurements and analyzed the resulting kinetic parameters in terms of fluxes along the competing CS and IF pathways , where formation of the unfolded bound conformer is predominantly the result of chaperone binding to either unfolded or native substrate states , respectively . Our results establish that the dominant binding process is via the CS mechanism for both substrates considered , and for both DnaK and human Hsc70 , suggesting that the CS mode of Hsp70 recognition may be conserved . The client protein is not characterized by a single structure , but rather by an ensemble of conformers , ranging from native  to unfolded  ; in the examples that follow both N and U states are approximately equally populated , and are in principle , both available to form a substrate-Hsp70 bound complex . A number of different biophysical experiments , performed on a variety of Hsp70 complexes , has established that the substrate is unfolded in the bound state , UK  . Our goal is to obtain mechanistic insights into the binding reaction by considering the flux from either conformers U or N to UK so as to evaluate what the dominant pathway for the Hsp70 - substrate interaction might be and hence establish whether binding is best described in terms of a CS or IF mechanism . As described in the Introduction , in the IF  model the dominant process involves Hsp70 binding to N to form a preliminary complex  , where the bound substrate has an N-like structure , that is subsequently unfolded to form the dominant bound conformation  . In contrast , in the CS  model , as we consider it here , Hsp70 selects a substrate conformer that structurally resembles the bound state  from an equilibrium mixture , with larger fluxes for reactions that proceed via this path  than for those involving N→NK→UK . Thus , a plot of the intensity ratio of the A state peak ( I/Io , where I and Io are the intensities of peak A when the field is  and is not  applied , respectively ) as a function of frequency shows a major dip at the resonance position of the target proton in state A and a minor dip at the position of the resonance frequency of the proton in state B . Note that there is an analogy between the CEST profiles from A and B and a zz-exchange dataset , with the major dips in CEST corresponding to the diagonal peaks in zz-exchange , connected via the minor dips in the two profiles , similar to the zz-exchange crosspeaks . This is illustrated in the context of a set of reactions , N⇌kUNkNUUU+K⇌koffkonUKUKwhere N and U are DnaK-free conformations of the substrate and K refers to DnaK . Focusing on CEST , Figure 2C shows that the N  and U  profiles become indistinguishable for fast interconversion  , while if the interconversion is slow  then the mechanism of binding can clearly be discerned from a comparison of the CEST profiles of N and U , since only the latter shows a minor dip at the chemical shift of the reporter nucleus in the bound state in this case  . Similarly , assuming kex , NU << kex , UK in a zz-exchange experiment for the same CS-based mechanism as above  , cross-peaks are observed only between U and UK , while for an induced-fit mode of binding cross-peaks connect only N and UK  . Finally , it is worth emphasizing that , in the above discussion , we have assumed that exchange rates are slow compared to chemical shift differences between spins in interconverting states , N , U and UK , so that separate correlations are observed for each state in NMR datasets . It is also the case that additional intermediates such as alternate unfolded states  can be explicitly included in any model of exchange only if their presence is detected either by distinct peaks in NMR spectra or by minor dips in CEST profiles . R17* has a strong predicted  Hsp70 binding site and the sidechains  forming this binding site are >40% solvent-exposed on average  , potentially facilitating binding of Hsp70 to the native protein along an IF pathway . The ATP state of DnaK is an important entry point for substrates to the Hsp70 chaperone cycle  and was chosen as the chaperone nucleotide state in this study . In all experiments involving DnaK/ATP , the allosterically active T199A mutant of DnaK  that is deficient in ATP hydrolysis was used to minimize ATP turnover during NMR data collection . Upon addition of 500 μM U-2H DnaK/ATP a new peak appears in the Met region of the 13C-1H HMQC spectrum that can be unambiguously assigned to the bound state of R17*  . The binding of R17* to DnaK can also be established from the 13C-1H HMQC spectrum of a sample prepared as 400 μM ILVM-13CH3 R17* and 800 μM I-13CH3 DnaK/ADP in which a number of new peaks are observed for the key Ile 401 and Ile 438 residues present at the central binding pocket of DnaK that are sensitive reporters of the binding event   . The presence of several Ile 401 and Ile 438 resonances at distinct chemical shifts in the bound state demonstrates the existence of multiple bound conformations of the R17*-DnaK complex , interconverting with each other and with free DnaK in slow exchange on the NMR chemical shift timescale . Such conformational heterogeneity in DnaK-substrate interactions , observed previously in studies focused on the three-helix bundle client hTRF1  , arises from the binding of DnaK to a number of sites on R17* that position different aliphatic hydrophobic amino acids of the client at the central groove of the DnaK binding site  . Indeed , the DnaK binding site prediction algorithm LIMBO  identifies at least two regions on R17* with a high propensity to interact with DnaK , 42QGLLKKH48 and 70EDLIKKN76  , each of which has two hydrophobic residues  that could occupy the central cavity . Notably , substitution of the Leu pair at positions 44 and 45 with Ile leads to the appearance of new correlations in the Ile region of a 13C-1H HMQC spectrum recorded on a 200 μM ILVM-13CH3 L44I/L45I R17* sample to which 400 μM 2H DnaK/ADP has been added , confirming that the region containing residues 42–48 is a DnaK binding site . We have not been able to confirm DnaK binding to the second predicted site , as substitution of Leu 72 with Ile did not yield additional correlations in the Ile region of a spectrum recorded on a suitably prepared R17* , DnaK/ADP sample . In order to determine whether the new resonance in the HMQC spectrum of the R17*-DnaK complex belongs to a Met residue at the 0 position of the DnaK binding site we measured intermolecular NOEs between ILVM-13CH3 R17* and I-13CH3 DnaK/ADP  . Previous X-ray and NMR structures of a variety of different complexes have established that Ile 401 and Ile 438 in the DnaK binding pocket are within 5 Å of the methyl moiety of the substrate residue located at position 0  and NOEs have been used to link Ile 401 , Ile 438 cross peaks with those from substrate residues that belong to the same conformation  . For R17* the bound Met methyl does not show NOE cross-peaks to Ile 401 and Ile 438 of DnaK , establishing that this Met residue is not located at the 0 position  . However , NOE cross-peaks can be observed connecting pairs of Ile 401 and Ile 438 residues  with their substrate counterparts whose methyls are localized to the Leu region of the HMQC spectrum , establishing that at least two distinct Leu residues of R17* can be present at the DnaK 0 position in the R17*-DnaK ensemble  . A number of biophysical studies using different spectroscopies such as NMR , fluorescence and circular dichroism have shown that DnaK-bound substrates are globally unfolded  . In order to determine the conformation of R17* in its DnaK-bound state we have compared the intensities of cross-peaks in 13C-1H HMQC spectra derived from native and unfolded states of R17* as probes . 1 upon DnaK binding , consistent with solution equilibria shifting from N , and also with different 1H and 13C chemical shifts of R17* in the bound state from those in N . The simplest interpretation of the data is that the Met and Ile residues of R17* in bound conformations have the same chemical shifts as U , with the degeneracy in shifts leading to an increase , rather than a decrease in unfolded peak intensities . The distinct 13C and 1H chemical shifts from the Met peak labeled 'Bound' in Figure 3D  , that are not unfolded-like , reflect a conformation of R17*-DnaK whereby the Met is proximal to the DnaK binding site and hence shifted from the random coil region of the spectrum . Taken together , our data shows that DnaK-bound R17* is globally unfolded and resembles the U conformation of R17* that exists in equilibrium with N in the absence of DnaK . This experiment is particularly powerful in the case of R17* because both the 1H and 13C chemical shifts of the one Met resonance that reports on the bound state are distinct from those derived from N and U , and the Met region of the 13C-1H HMQC spectrum is well resolved , facilitating the detection and quantification of cross-peaks between states . A pair of cross-peaks can be observed , labeled 1 and 2 , connecting the unfolded state of Met 26 with the bound state and assigning the bound resonance to the methyl group of Met 26 . Notably , there are no cross-peaks between N and the bound state , unequivocally demonstrating that DnaK interacts predominantly with the unfolded state of R17* . 01 s−1 for kex , UN so that the dominant flux contribution along the CS pathway derives from the U→UK transition while an upper bound for the IF pathway  can be estimated from the absence of an N , UK cross-peak . Having established that the binding of the α-helical bundle domain R17* to DnaK proceeds through a CS mechanism we next addressed the dependence of binding on the secondary structure of the client protein by choosing the incomplete 5-stranded β-barrel SH3 domain of the Drosophila melanogaster Enhancer of sevenless 2B protein  as a client . Previous studies have established that the DnaK bound state of drkN SH3 is structurally similar to U  . Figure 5 shows the methyl spectrum of 250 μM IM-13CH3 drkN SH3 without  , and with  500 μM U-2H DnaK/ATP . The 13C-1H HMQC spectrum of a sample of 500 μM IM-13CH3 DnaK/ADP and 250 μM ILVM-13CH3 drkN SH3 is shown in Figure 5—figure supplement 1  . There are at least three new resonances for each of the DnaK binding site residues Ile 401 and Ile 438 when drkN SH3 is present , confirming that the SH3 domain binds to the canonical binding pocket on DnaK and highlighting the conformational heterogeneity in the SH3-DnaK ensemble , as has been seen in all other folding competent clients that we have studied to date . The identity of the residues of drkN SH3 at position 0 of the DnaK binding pocket have been obtained by recording a 3D 13C-edited NOESY dataset on the same sample  . Notably , there are NOEs connecting the two Ile peaks 1 and 2 of drkN SH3 to Ile 438 of the chaperone , indicating that peaks 1 and 2 arise from Ile at the 0 position of the DnaK binding site . In contrast , NOEs from Leu residues in drkN SH3 to Ile 401 and Ile 438 are not observed . The absence of Leu residues at the binding site may possibly account for the low affinity of drkN SH3 for DnaK , even in the high affinity binding state where DnaK is ADP loaded . Cavagnero and coworkers report a KD of 243 μM for drkN SH3 and DnaK/ADP  that is at least two orders of magnitude weaker than literature values for peptides or proteins where Leu residues can occupy position 0  . While the 1H chemical shifts of the bound Ile peaks 1 and 2 from drkN SH3 are unique , their 13C shifts are nearly degenerate with those from Ile 27 and Ile 4 of the N state , respectively ,  which complicates the quantification of potential N-B cross-peaks in a zz-exchange dataset . Thus , we have measured 1H CEST spectra to obtain the kinetics of drkN SH3 binding to DnaK/ATP using the pulse sequence shown in Figure 6—figure supplement 1A . Our choice of exploiting the 1H nucleus in CEST studies is motivated by the fact that the largest chemical shift differences between folded , unfolded and bound state peaks in methyl-based 13C-1H HMQC datasets of drkN SH3 are in the 1H dimension . In order to minimize these NOE-dips we have used highly deuterated I-13CH3 labeled drkN SH3 for acquiring CEST data and fortunately , there are only two pairs of Ile residues that are within 5 Å , considerably reducing the number of possible NOE dips . In order to interpret CEST profiles it was necessary to first assign peaks 1 and 2 to specific Ile residues in drkN SH3 . Since we know from NOE data that both peaks 1 and 2 are present at the 0 position , it follows that peaks 1 and 2 report on two distinct DnaK-bound conformations of drkN SH3 , labeled as B1 and B2 respectively . Figure 6 shows 1H CEST profiles from Ile 27 and Ile 53 methyl groups of folded  , unfolded  and DnaK-bound  drkN SH3 , acquired on a sample with 250 μM IM-13CH3 drkN SH3 and 500 μM U-2H-DnaK/ATP . Recall that in CEST spectra measured by recording the intensity of a peak from state j as a function of irradiation frequency the major dip derives from that state , while minor dips link state j with other states in the exchanging network . The native state CEST profiles of both Ile 27 and Ile 53 show only one minor dip each , at the resonances frequencies of the corresponding 1Hδ1 shifts in their respective unfolded states . However , the corresponding CEST traces from both residues in U show minor dips to N as well as to the bound state , unambiguously demonstrating that the major flux for the binding reaction involves a pathway whereby DnaK selects the unfolded state of drkN SH3 . This conclusion is reinforced by CEST profiles of the bound state peaks where only one strong minor dip is observed in each trace that links the bound state with U . In contrast to DnaK/ATP , the CEST profiles of drkN SH3 bound to DnaK/ADP do not show any signature of binding/release  , though the presence of the bound states B1 and B2 can clearly be discerned from 13C-1H HMQC spectra recorded on the same sample . The presence of CEST minor dips with DnaK/ATP and not with DnaK/ADP also confirms that DnaK is predominantly in the ATP-bound form in the sample used for acquiring CEST data in Figure 6 . Analysis of the 1H CEST profiles for the drkN SH3 system is challenging because of the measurable exchange between U and N , and U and UK , and by the presence of two bound states . Accordingly , we fit the CEST profiles from the Ile 27 and Ile 53 N and U peaks , as well as the profiles of I53B1 and I27B2 peaks globally to the four-state model shown in Figure 7 . The intermediate state along the IF pathway , corresponding to NK , is not included in the model because there is no evidence from 13C-1H HMQC spectra of SH3/DnaK samples or from the CEST profiles justifying the explicit inclusion of such a state; instead , the three-state N-NK-UK pathway was approximated as N-UK . The flux ratio Θ for the U→UK and N→UK pathways based on the simultaneous fit of CEST profiles from Ile 27 and Ile 53 is given byΘ=konUBkonNB=kex , UB  pUkex , NB  pN=kex , UBkex , NBΞwhere kex , UB and kex , NB for both the B1 and B2 arms of the binding scheme of Figure 7 can be obtained reliably . Using these values , Θ1 and Θ2 for the formation of bound states B1 and B2 corresponding to Ile 53 and Ile 27 of drkN SH3 at position 0 of DnaK are found to be 4 and 21 respectively . Thus our data strongly support the notion that the dominant flux is through the U→UK pathway whereby DnaK directly selects the U state , and therefore the binding mechanism can be described according to the CS model . We thus wondered if the mechanism of client substrate recognition by Hsp70 is also conserved and whether a CS mode of binding might also apply to other Hsp70 chaperones . Upon addition of 500 μM U-2H , Hsc70/ATP to a solution of 170 μM IM-13CH3 drkN SH3 , no new peaks were observed  , suggesting that the affinity of drkN SH3 for Hsc70/ATP is lower than that for DnaK/ATP  . Similar to our observations with DnaK , the native state CEST profile  shows a minor dip at the frequency of Ile 27 Hδ1 in the unfolded state , while the unfolded state profile  shows a pair of dips , with one at the position of the native state for Ile 27 Hδ1 and a second , initially unassigned . Second , when CEST profiles are recorded of drkN SH3 bound to DnaK/ADP , where the exchange kinetics are much slower than for the ATP loaded chaperone form and too slow to observe exchange derived dips  , a minor dip in the region between 0 . This new peak belongs to Hsc70/ADP-bound drkN SH3 and is now visible because Hsc70/ADP has a higher affinity for substrate than Hsc70/ATP and the population of the bound state is higher . Notably , in the N state CEST profile a small broad peak is observed at the position of Ile 27 Hδ1 in the bound state  . This dip is not the result of exchange between N and UK but can be attributed , instead , to an NOE between proximal residues Ile 27 and Ile 48 in the native drkN SH3 state and the fact that the bound state Hδ1 chemical shift for Ile 27 is degenerate with the 1H Ile δ1 shift of residue 48 in the native state . Confirmation that this is an NOE dip and not due to exchange is obtained by measuring CEST profiles of drkN SH3 bound to DnaK/ADP where an NOE dip is observed as well  but , as discussed above , where the rates of binding/release are too slow for the development of minor dips resulting from exchange and by the observation of a distinct NOE crosspeak between Ile 27 and Ile 48 in a 3D 13C-13C-1H NOESY spectrum of ILVM-13CH3 drkN SH3 . Taken together our results thus confirm that the major flux to UK proceeds through U so that human Hsc70 also employs a CS mode of interaction with the drkN SH3 client protein . Structures of Hsp70 bound to a number of different peptide substrates have appeared  and both biochemical and biophysical studies of Hsp70 with folding competent protein domains and intact proteins have been reported  . Here we have extended this work by using state of the art NMR methods that include relaxation optimized techniques for recording spectra of methyl group probes  in high molecular weight complexes  and two-dimensional spin relaxation experiments such as CEST  and magnetization exchange  to probe the binding reaction of Hsp70 with cognate substrates . Relaxation based experiments establish that in both cases the dominant flux to the bound state , in which the substrate is unfolded in complex with DnaK  , proceeds through the single step binding reaction U →UK as opposed to any scheme in which binding to N is the first step in an NK to UK transition . In order to obtain insight into whether the DnaK binding mechanism is conserved among different Hsp70 orthologs we have carried out further studies using the constitutively expressed human Hsc70 protein and the drkN SH3 substrate . However , an excited state dip was observed in the 1H CEST profile of Ile 27 Hδ1 in U that could be assigned to the ‘invisible’ bound state , while a corresponding peak from chemical exchange was not observed for N . This establishes that the flux to the Hsc70 bound state , like that for DnaK , also proceeds via a U →UK mechanism . It is important to emphasize that the analysis of flux through IF and CS pathways discussed here is somewhat different than what is typically described in the literature where a comparison of fluxes through N→U→UK  and N→NK→UK  pathways exclusively is made , without considering binding proceeding directly from other equilibrium states   . In the case here U is thermally accessible from N and is significantly populated at equilibrium , with the N→U→UK reaction contributing only a small amount to the net flux by which UK is formed relative to the U→UK pathway for the substrates and Hsp70 chaperones considered . The preference of Hsp70 for the unfolded state of the substrates demonstrates a 'holdase' recognition mechanism whereby Hsp70 captures intrinsic fluctuations in its client protein . Our results argue against a simple N→NK→UK unfoldase scheme as a dominant binding mechanism , where the native state of the substrate is recognized by Hsp70 and induced to unfold upon binding . However , it must be emphasized that we have focused on elementary binding steps here and our results are not inconsistent with broader unfoldase mechanisms involving recognition of partially unfolded or misfolded regions of substrates that eventually result in unfolded Hsp70-bound clients via a multistep process . For example , such a mechanism may be operative in the conversion of a misfolded state of luciferase to a globally unfolded , folding-competent ensemble  where the elementary binding step is a holdase-like CS reaction , U →UK , involving trapping by Hsp70 of local conformational fluctuations occurring in a small region of the protein . Third , the CS binding mode ensures that Hsp70 will select only misfolded intermediates lacking stable secondary and tertiary structure for refolding rather than stably folded native conformations with exposed hydrophobic sidechains so that refolding occurs in a unidirectional manner from the misfolded to the native state . Finally , Hsp70 recognition sites on proteins such as σ32 that bind in their native state are in long solvent-exposed loop regions  where both sidechain and backbone motifs of the binding site residues are available for interaction . Indeed , conformational sampling in the bound state is expected to be different from the globally unfolded state because each Hsp70 molecule divides the substrate into two distinct polypeptide segments at the binding site . We have shown earlier that tertiary interactions that are transiently present in the U state of the unbound substrate are disrupted across the Hsp70 binding site  , so that the two segments could have different overall structural propensities than would be the case for the full-length protein in its unfolded state . The multiple Hsp70-bound conformations of R17* and drkN SH3 noted in this study reinforce our previous observations with the three-helix bundle substrate hTRF1 that Hsp70 binds promiscuously to its substrates , recognizing different sites containing aliphatic hydrophobic residues along the polypeptide sequence  . Our results show that each binding site of the substrate can be recognized by Hsp70 when it becomes exposed to the solvent in the thermally accessible unfolded state , highlighting the prominent role played by conformational dynamics in this crucial protein-protein interaction . "
"T cells discriminate between self and foreign antigenic peptides , displayed on antigen presenting cell surfaces , via the TCR . While the molecular interactions between TCR and its ligands are well characterized in vitro , quantitative measurements of these interactions in living cells are required to accurately resolve the physical mechanisms of TCR signaling . We report direct single molecule measurements of TCR triggering by agonist pMHC in hybrid junctions between live primary T cells and supported lipid membranes . Every pMHC:TCR complex over the entire cell is tracked while simultaneously monitoring the local membrane recruitment of ZAP70 , as a readout of TCR triggering . Mean dwell times for pMHC:TCR molecular binding of 5 and 54 s were measured for two different pMHC:TCR systems . Single molecule measurements of the pMHC:TCR:ZAP70 complex indicate that TCR triggering is stoichiometric with agonist pMHC in a 1:1 ratio . An essential aspect of adaptive immunity is the ability of T cells to discriminate between structurally similar agonist and non-stimulatory self peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex  molecules presented on the surface of antigen-presenting cells   . Fewer than 10 agonist pMHC molecules can trigger T cells  , and the signaling response occurs on a timescale of seconds  . It has been recognized for decades that subtle , peptide-specific differences in binding parameters , especially kinetic rates for the pMHC and T cell receptor  reaction , seem to be the basis of antigen recognition  . Experimental correlations between molecular pMHC:TCR binding kinetics , typically determined from solution assays of soluble extracellular domains and bulk measurements of T cell activity , have provided the foundation for much of this understanding . From a physical point of view , the extreme sensitivity , selectivity , and apparent immunity to stochastic noise exhibited by TCR antigen recognition pose challenges to classical notions of ligand-receptor signaling  . For example , the maximum affinity a TCR can have for self pMHC ligands  is sharply defined and close to the affinity threshold for foreign pMHC  . Consequently , every TCR is likely to bind a subset of the ever-present self pMHC molecules with affinities differing only slightly from genuine foreign agonist pMHC . If TCR triggering and signaling were simply proportional to TCR occupancy by ligand , then the abundance of self pMHC could easily overwhelm genuine agonist signals , rendering this as an ineffective discriminatory mechanism . Alternatively , each engagement of pMHC with TCR  , perhaps with some minimum engagement time  , might define the threshold for TCR triggering . Other proposed mechanisms elaborate further , suggesting  heterodimers  of self and agonist pMHC molecules or pMHC-independent forms of trans activation  of multiple TCR by a single agonist pMHC may be at work . Here , we characterize the molecular interactions between pMHC and TCR , at the single molecule level , while simultaneously monitoring the local membrane recruitment of cytosolic Zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70  in live primary T cells . Every pMHC can be individually resolved and tracked for up to minutes before photobleaching by using a multi-timescale single molecule fluorescence imaging approach . The pMHC molecules fall into two unambiguously distinguished classes: one undergoing fast random motion and the second moving slowly along linear trajectories . These slow moving pMHC are the bound pMHC:TCR complexes; they are only observed with agonist peptide and they spatially correlate with both TCR and recruitment of ZAP70 . The linear trajectories of the pMHC:TCR complexes match the well-characterized cytoskeleton-driven movement of TCR during the formation of the immunological synapse  . Thus a lone agonist pMHC bound to TCR leads to stable engagement of the resulting complex with the cytoskeleton . Single molecule intensity calibration of the number of ZAP70 recruited to the vicinity of each agonist pMHC indicates that TCR are triggered in a 1:1 stoichiometry with pMHC . Associations of pMHC with TCR exhibited molecular binding dwell times with mean durations of 53 . Individual dwell times are roughly exponentially distributed and are in general agreement with bulk solution measurements of pMHC:TCR kinetic off-rates for both TCRs  . However , dwell times measured from tracking experiments specifically correspond to spatial entrapment of pMHC with a TCR , or cluster of TCRs  , on the T cell surface . They do not necessarily correspond to individual molecular binding events with a single TCR . Indeed , recent studies  have suggested that pMHC:TCR kinetic off-rates may be accelerated in living cells relative to in vitro measurements , possibly as a result of actively applied forces from the cytoskeleton  . We explore the possibility that individual dwell times observed by tracking experiments could be composed of rapid unbinding and serial rebinding of pMHC to multiple TCR within a cluster . If pMHC thoroughly disengages from TCR , it will most likely escape . Structural flexibility within the pMHC:TCR complex  could give rise to apparently fast kinetics  without actual unbinding of pMHC from TCR . The tracking observations reported here directly reveal that the functional interaction between agonist pMHC and TCR is long-lived in living cells and that triggered TCR remain localized with the same pMHC . We probe agonist pMHC:TCR complex dynamics in hybrid live cell—supported membrane junctions   . Upon contact between the T cell and the supported membrane , Leukocyte function-associated antigen 1  -ICAM1 binding leads to rapid cell spreading and formation of an essentially planar interface between the T cell and supported membrane , within which pMHC:TCR interactions occur . Agonist pMHC binding to TCR in T cells is revealed by changes in mobility . Binding of agonist pMHC to TCR  leads to phosphorylation of ITAMs , on the intracellular domain of the TCR , which is followed by recruitment of the kinase ZAP70  . We directly observe both pMHC:TCR binding and ZAP70:ITAM recruitment using single molecule fluorescence microscopy  . At short exposure times  all agonist pMHC molecules are readily resolved . Imaging with a long exposure time  allows for unambiguous discrimination between the slow , TCR-bound fraction of agonist pMHC and the fast diffusing fraction . Representative intensity trace showing a single agonist pMHC molecule , identified by step photobleaching , bound continuously for ∼60 s . Step size histogram of single agonist pMHC molecules in a SLB is bimodal under T cells  and unimodal before addition of T cells  . pMHC molecules in  –  were labeled with Atto647N on the MCC peptide . 003 At fast exposure times  and high excitation powers  , all pMHC molecules are readily resolved  . The pMHC move as individual molecules , as identified by single-step photobleaching , and can be continuously tracked for up to hundreds of frames  . In regions without a cell , pMHC exclusively exhibit random diffusive motion . In addition to a fast component from freely diffusing pMHC , a distinct slow-moving component also appears . At long exposure times  and low excitation powers  , the fast moving pMHC fraction in Figure 1D is averaged over several pixels to form a relatively homogenous background . The slow moving pMHC molecules colocalize with TCR  and move in linear trajectories toward the geometric center of the live cell-supported membrane junction; these are the pMHC:TCR complexes . When MHC is loaded with a mixture of agonist and null peptides , with different fluorescent labels , only the agonist peptides are observed in the slow-moving complexes  . A 3 s time-lapse video  of agonist pMHC interacting with live 5c . A long  exposure time allows for unambiguous discrimination between TCR-bound and unbound agonist pMHC in the bilayer . TCR and MCC agonist pMHC colocalization . and  TCR and agonist pMHC colocalize in bulk in the central supramolecular assembly cluster  and  at the single molecule level . Although TCR clusters were not readily observed in these experiments  , previous reports indicate that TCR does cluster at the agonist density  used here  . Only the MCC agonist pMHC is observed in the slow moving fraction , irrespective of which fluorescent label  it carries . 006 The agonist pMHC densities used in these experiments range from 0 . The lowest densities are near thresholds for triggering Ca2+ flux  and below levels where stable TCR microclusters are readily visible  , whereas the higher densities are well above the densities at which microclusters are observed  . Nonetheless , the observed single molecule pMHC motion at all densities is reminiscent of the well-characterized actomyosin-driven TCR microcluster radial transport in cells that are activated  . Two-color single molecule tracking is used to quantitatively monitor membrane recruitment of cytosolic ZAP70-EGFP  to the locations of the pMHC:TCR complexes . Immediately after cell landing , ZAP70 localizes to and moves together with the pMHC:TCR complexes  . For each frame in a tracking sequence , fluorescence intensity in the ZAP70-EGFP channel is integrated over a 315 nm square region centered on each pMHC:TCR complex  . The resulting intensity traces reveal discrete changes in average intensity , which we attribute to the binding of one ZAP70-EGFP to the phosphorylated ITAM domains on the cytoplasmic side of TCR engaged with pMHC  . Representative traces of colocalized ZAP70-EGFP intensity along with the corresponding intensity trace from the pMHC are illustrated in Figure 4C . Observed molecular binding dwell times of individual ZAP70-EGFP , as resolved by the stochastic transitions , range from 12 to 107 s . The majority of single molecule ZAP70-EGFP traces exhibit intensity fluctuations consistent with background  , which would not be expected if cytosolic ZAP70-EGFP exchanged during exposure time . ZAP70 recruitment , stoichiometry , and movement are consistent with 1:1 agonist pMHC:TCR stoichiometry . A spatial map of MCC-Atto647N single molecule  and ZAP70-EGFP  puncta . Both single MCC agonist pMHC molecules and ZAP70-EGFP puncta follow linear trajectories towards the geometric center of the 2D cell–supported bilayer interface . Single ZAP70-EGFP molecules recruited to single agonist pMHC molecules  are recorded using sub-pixel color registration  . Representative single molecule ZAP70-EGFP  and MCC-Atto647N agonist pMHC  localized fluorescence intensity traces . Step decreases in MCC intensity  are most likely agonist pMHC:TCR unbinding events , since τoff≪τbl . Step increases in ZAP70 intensity  are attributed to ZAP70:ITAM binding . The majority of single molecule agonist pMHC traces result in ZAP70-EGFP traces with intensity fluctuations consistent with the background . Step increases and decreases in ZAP70-EGFP intensity are rare , but single ZAP70-EGFP events are long-lived  . If rapid unbinding/rebinding were to occur , then either single molecule ZAP70-EGFP traces would more frequent and shorter , or ZAP70-EGFP traces without single step intensity increases or decreases would be noisier . A small minority of agonist pMHC traces exhibit two-step photobleaching , indicating pMHC dimerization . However , the ZAP70-EGFP output for these traces is equivalent to the ZAP70-EGFP output for single agonist pMHC single molecule traces . 009 ZAP70-EGFP features brighter than single molecules are also observed and we calibrate their stoichiometries using single molecule ZAP70-EGFP intensities from the same cell . 04 SEM ZAP70-EGFP per feature , given that the single molecule intensity is 47 ± 2 counts  in that cell . Each feature therefore contains on average ∼6 ZAP70 molecules , since ZAP70-EGFP was expressed in a roughly 1:1 ratio with endogenous ZAP70  in these experiments . Each TCR complex has 10 ITAM domains that , when phosphorylated , can bind one ZAP70 each  . Thus observation of ∼6 ZAP70 per agonist pMHC suggests only a single TCR is triggered . These can be tracked for tens to hundreds of seconds , indicating that recruited ZAP70-EGFP remain stably associated with the pMHC:TCR complex while traveling along the same linear trajectories  . The observation of a range of ZAP70-EGFP stoichiometries  implies that some time-dependent accumulation of ZAP70 is likely to occur , although we have not definitively observed ZAP70-EGFP accumulation over time within individual intensity traces . Taken together , these observations demonstrate that engagement of TCR with an individual agonist pMHC molecule leads to stable association with the actin cytoskeleton , one-to-one TCR triggering  , and subsequent ZAP70 recruitment . Moreover , since every pMHC:TCR:ZAP70 complex is individually resolved in these experiments , we demonstrate that a single pMHC:TCR complex can lead to TCR triggering without molecular-scale association with other MHC molecules . Simultaneous observation of ZAP70-EGFP recruitment and pMHC:TCR binding immediately after a living AND T cell lands on the SLB . ZAP70-EGFP membrane recruitment  and pMHC:TCR binding  occur almost immediately after landing . Radial transport of pMHC:TCR:ZAP70 complexes commences immediately after landing . These data were analyzed to create the spatial map of pMHC and ZAP70 positions displayed in Figure 4A . Simultaneous observation of ZAP70-EGFP recruitment and pMHC:TCR binding immediately after a living AND T cell lands on the SLB . This video shows binding of pMHC:TCR , and is from the same cell as the ZAP70-EGFP data in Video 2 . Agonist pMHC is labeled as MCC-Atto647N . These data were analyzed to create the spatial map of pMHC and ZAP70 positions displayed in Figure 4A . 011 Since the slow-moving pMHC can be clearly resolved from the fast moving component , the lifetime of molecules in this bound state is directly observable . For molecular binding , characterized by a constant kinetic off-rate , the distribution of observed dwell times , τobs , is described byf  =  e−τobs  , where 〈τbl〉−1 is the photobleaching rate  , 〈τoff〉−1 is the unbinding rate  , and  −1=〈τobs〉 is the observed mean dwell time in this experiment . 〈τoff〉 is also relatively unchanged at high agonist pMHC density  , which is far above minimal levels required for T cell activation and observation of stable TCR microclusters   . We observe that cytoskeleton disruption by the actin-binding molecule , Latrunculin A , moderately increases 〈τoff〉 with the AND TCR and had no significant effect on 5c . Similarly , the dwell time distribution was only modestly affected by anti-CD4  ; however , the total number of TCR:pMHC complexes per cell was smaller in the anti-CD4 experiments , suggesting that the antibody interfered with pMHC:TCR binding . The distribution of live cell single molecule agonist pMHC:TCR molecular binding dwell times is observed directly . Bleaching times , kbl−1 ,  are measured using agonist pMHC SLB standards without cells and with the same fluorescent label  and are significantly longer than observed dwell times , τobs , for both TCRs . Values in columns five and six represent ∼300–600 MCC agonist pMHC molecules per experimental condition from a population of 7–20 cells . 012 Tracking observations reveal the time intervals over which individual agonist pMHC molecules remain physically trapped within the immediate vicinity of the same TCR . Thus , although our measured dwell times in live cells are in general agreement with bulk solution measurements of pMHC:TCR kinetic off-rates for both TCRs   , this may not result from the same reasons in each case . Unbinding of pMHC from TCR followed by rapid rebinding to the same TCR or another TCR within the same signaling cluster could conceivably lead to entrapment of pMHC for timescales longer than the lifetime of the molecular interaction . This has been hypothesized as a potential mode by which a small number of agonist pMHC could trigger a larger number of TCR  . Furthermore , recently reported single molecule measurements of pMHC:TCR binding kinetics in live cells , by force probe and by FRET , have suggested accelerated kinetic-off rates  . We quantitatively assess the possibility of serial rebinding of agonist pMHC to multiple TCR within a TCR cluster using a stochastic reaction-diffusion simulation over a large range of 〈τoff〉 and TCR cluster size . The total time to escape for an individual molecule , which is the parameter directly measured in pMHC tracking experiments , is given by:τesc=∑i=0nτoffi+∑i=1nτoni+τexit In this representation , τoffi and τoni are the individual dwell times in the bound and unbound configurations , n is the number of rebinding events , and τexit is the duration of the final unbound period prior to ultimate escape . For the stochastic simulation , τoffi and τoni are treated as random variables with exponential distributions defined by the in situ measured values of koff and kon for pMHC:TCR binding , respectively . If the pMHC diffuses out of the TCR cluster prior to rebinding , it has escaped . Otherwise , the pMHC rebinds and the cycle repeats . Using the fastest kon  observed in similar hybrid live cell-SLB systems  and the measured diffusion coefficient of pMHC in our supported membranes , we find that τesc≈τoff for TCR clusters of the sizes observed experimentally    . Only for unrealistically large TCR clusters  could rebinding within the same cluster lead to appreciable entrapment   . Stochastic reaction-diffusion simulation of time before MCC agonist pMHC escape from TCR clusters , τesc  , as a function of τoff and TCR cluster size . For small TCR clusters  τoff ≈ τesc , indicating no serial rebinding . Only for unrealistically large TCR clusters  does τesc become appreciably longer than τoff . Stochastic reaction-diffusion simulation of time before MCC agonist pMHC escape from TCR clusters . Simulations of τescτoff as a function of TCR cluster size , τoff , and kon . The ratio τescτoff , which is an indicator of agonist pMHC entrapment , is a function of TCR cluster size and kon , but not koff . 51 µm2s−1molecule−1 corresponds to the fastest average kon that allows for rebinding to the same TCR . Only for unrealistically large TCR cluster sizes  and fast kon is τescτoff≫1 , meaning that entrapment due to millisecond-scale unbinding and rebinding is unlikely to result in the minute-scale dwell times observed in our experiments . 014 These simulations indicate that the observed values of τoff are unlikely to be the result of rapid serial rebinding of one pMHC with many TCR within a TCR cluster . We note that although TCR clusters are not readily visible at the low antigen densities in these experiments , low level TCR clustering has been reported in the resting state by other methods  . Even with a very fast kon , if pMHC completely disengages from TCR for long enough to diffuse to an adjacent TCR , then the probability of complete escape from the TCR cluster is high . Only in the extreme limit , where kon is so fast that pMHC unbinding is predominantly followed by rebinding to the same TCR , is the escape time appreciably longer than the individual molecular dwell times . The distinction between rapidly rebinding the same TCR and a single engagement is largely semantic . However , it may reveal something about the mechanical stability of pMHC:TCR interactions , and could account for the apparently accelerated koff observed in other types of experiments . All evidence reported here suggests that individual agonist pMHC remain bound to the same TCR for at least several seconds for the 5c . c7 TCR and for approximately one minute for the AND TCR in live cells . Subsequent recruitment of ZAP70 indicates TCR are triggered and movement of the complexes along linear trajectories confirms stable association with the actin cytoskeleton . All of this occurs as a result of a lone agonist pMHC binding TCR , without involvement of other MHC . The measured average pMHC:TCR:ZAP70 stoichiometry indicates TCR triggering is most likely 1:1 with agonist pMHC . Supernumerary triggering of multiple TCR by a single pMHC is not observed on the timescales of minutes investigated in these experiments . The original serial triggering model  drew its conclusions from the extent of TCR down regulation measured 5 hr after exposure of T cells to antigen-pulsed APCs . Additionally , the lack of molecular-scale cooperativity in TCR triggering by agonist pMHC indicates that observed cooperativity at the level of cellular calcium response , at similar ligand densities and timescales  , is most likely due to intracellular feedback mechanisms  . The timescales of the pMHC:TCR interactions we observe in live cells are consistent with SPR measurements of koff for the 5c . c7 TCR and 226 TCR , which is nearly identical to AND   . Stochastic reaction-diffusion analysis of the measured kinetic and mobility parameters indicates that rapid serial rebinding of agonist pMHC to multiple TCRs in a signaling cluster is unlikely to be a universal mechanism for ligand discrimination and rapid signal amplification in T cells . Interaction of the 226 TCR with the MCC peptide . 015 The intercellular geometry as well as active processes within the T cell have long been suspected to influence pMHC:TCR interactions  . Direct in situ measurements of individual pMHC:TCR binding kinetics , such as we report here , are extremely limited  but informative comparisons can be made . c7 TCR binding MCC pMHC reports short  in situ 2D dwell times , nearly 35 times faster than the 〈τoff〉 = 5 . This result has been interpreted to mean that the actin cytoskeleton actively destabilizes agonist pMHC:TCR complexes . In contrast , we observe very small effects of actin disruption on agonist pMHC dwell times for AND and essentially no effect with 5c . It is conceivable that the agonist pMHC:TCR complex does not remain bound in the same structural configuration for the duration of engagement . If mechanical coupling to actin significantly reduces the apparent 〈τoff〉 in a single molecule FRET measurement , but not in a single molecule tracking experiment , this raises the possibility that mechanical forces can induce conformational alterations in agonist pMHC:TCR without complete disengagement of the complex . Recent structural studies of pMHC:TCR indicate the possibility of such flexibility  . Under such a scenario , apparently fast 〈τoff〉 observed by FRET imaging  may not correspond to actual molecular unbinding and escape of agonist pMHC from TCR . In the aggregate , the data reported here indicate that spatially discrete pMHC:TCR:ZAP70 complexes form according to molecular mass action laws with relatively predictable chemical kinetics and stoichiometry in living cells . The observed pMHC:TCR molecular binding kinetics mirror solution measurements and we observe no evidence for molecular scale cooperativity in the triggering of TCR by agonist pMHC  . T cells were transduced with Zap70-EGFP and sorted using fluorescence-activated cell sorting  according to viability and EGFP expression . Unbound peptide was separated from peptide loaded MHC  using 10k spin concentrators  and then pMHC was diluted in imaging buffer . ICAM1-TagBFP and pMHC were further diluted with imaging buffer , introduced into the flow cells , and incubated for 35 min followed by a rinse with imaging buffer . To visualize TCR , T cells were incubated in a solution of 1 μl Alexa 647  -labeled H57 anti-TCR Fab and 100 μl imaging buffer for 20 min at 4°C prior to the regular imaging buffer resuspension . tif image stacks of agonist pMHC labeled with MCC-Atto488 and MCC-647N molecules by filtering for both size and intensity and linked into tracks using published particle detection and tracking algorithms  adapted for MATLAB  by Daniel Blair and Eric Dufresne  . The brightness of ZAP70-EGFP features varies from a single molecule to several molecules , and different brightness features are detected using slightly different methods , despite the fact that the features are physically similar . Bright ZAP70-EGFP features  were detected using the same algorithm as is used for single molecule pMHC . The lower signal-to-noise single molecule ZAP70-EGFP intensity traces like those in Figure 4C were obtained by summing the intensity of the ZAP70-EGFP channel using the agonist pMHC  molecule position as a mask , as is explained in the main text . The lifetime of the bright ZAP70-EGFP speckles is difficult to accurately assess due to the fluctuating background and varying speckle intensity  , but speckle lifetimes appear to be longer than the single molecule ZAP70-EGFP lifetimes . Single molecule ZAP70-EGFP molecules are uncorrected for photobleaching of both ZAP70-EGFP and agonist pMHC and therefore the range of binding times reported  only serves as a lower bound for the molecular ZAP70 dwell time . The agonist pMHC step size distribution at 17 . , Agonist pMHC:TCR binding kinetics cannot be uniquely inferred from the step size distribution , since the step size distribution is a time-independent analysis . The individual kinetic transitions were derived assuming the following model:pMHCfree⇌koffkonpMHC:TCR→kblpMHCbleachedwhere pMHCfree is the fast-mobility state , pMHC:TCR is the slow-mobility state  , pMHCbleached is the bleached slow-mobility state , koff and kon are the rates of transitions between the bound and the free pMHC , and kbl is the rate of transition from bound pMHC:TCR to photobleached pMHC . We assume that transititions between states follow a Markov memory-less process and derive a probability density function , f  , for the single molecule dwell time distribution: f  =  e−τobs  , where  −1=〈τobs〉 is the observed mean dwell time in our experiments . Agonist pMHC labeled with Atto488 and Atto647N SLB bleaching curves were background subtracted and then fit to an exponential decay function of the form f  =kble−kblt . Our simulation models a TCR cluster as a square lattice upon which agonist pMHC molecules bind discrete TCR lattice sites for duration τoffi , τoffi where is treated as a random variable drawn from an exponential distribution with mean equal to 〈τoff〉 . pMHC are initially placed at a randomly lattice position drawn from a uniform distribution . After each time period  , the agonist pMHC molecule steps to a new lattice site or stays at the same lattice site  until the agonist pMHC is no longer on the TCR cluster , such that τesck=∑i=0nτoffi+∑i=1nτoni+τexit , where n indicates the number of steps an individual agonist pMHC molecule takes before exiting the TCR cluster , τon is the time period between unbinding and binding events , and τexit is the time between the last unbinding event and the ultimate exit from the TCR cluster . The interval between binding events , τon , is treated as a random variable drawn from an exponential distribution with mean kon ρTCR where the density of TCR , ρTCR , is taken to be 10 , 000 molecules/µm2  . In this way 〈τoff〉=1k∑kτesck , where k is the number of iterations  , is calculated for every combination of 〈τoff〉 , TCR cluster size , and kon . Note that since τoff≫τon , τescτoff≈〈n〉 , where 〈n〉 is equivalent to the TCR cluster size . It is possible that agonist pMHC binding interactions with CD4 could slow the mobility of an individual agonist pMHC within a TCR cluster relative to DSLB when the agonist pMHC are unbound from TCR . This could hypothetically lead to entrapment and long single molecule tracks  in the absence of direct , sustained agonist pMHC-TCR interactions . "
"Bacterial phototaxis was first recognized over a century ago , but the method by which such small cells can sense the direction of illumination has remained puzzling . PCC 6803 moves with Type IV pili and measures light intensity and color with a range of photoreceptors . Here , we show that individual Synechocystis cells do not respond to a spatiotemporal gradient in light intensity , but rather they directly and accurately sense the position of a light source . We show that directional light sensing is possible because Synechocystis cells act as spherical microlenses , allowing the cell to see a light source and move towards it . A high-resolution image of the light source is focused on the edge of the cell opposite to the source , triggering movement away from the focused spot . However , it is generally assumed that bacteria are too small for direct sensing of a concentration gradient across the cell: instead they probe changes in stimulus concentration over time , as in the classic paradigm of flagella-mediated chemotaxis in Escherichia coli  . For phototrophic prokaryotes , light is the main source of energy but also potentially harmful , depending on intensity and wavelength . This movement can be directed towards a light source , thus constituting true phototaxis  . The location of the T4P extension motor PilB1 implies that pili are extended at the leading edge of the cell , and therefore that movement is generated by pilus retraction  , as has been shown in other bacteria  . Synechocystis T4P-dependent phototaxis can be observed microscopically at the single cell level and macroscopically through the migration of cell colonies . Previous studies of Synechocystis single cell phototaxis  have not addressed the question of how an individual cell might be able to perceive the direction of illumination . Here , we establish that individual Synechocystis cells can directly and accurately perceive the position of a unidirectional light source , and control their motility so as to move towards it . We then show that Synechocystis cells act as microlenses , and that the light intensity gradient across the cell due to this lensing effect is far greater than the effects of shading due to light absorption or reflection . Finally , we use highly-localized laser excitation to show that specific excitation of one side of the cell triggers movement away from the light , indicating that positive phototaxis results from movement away from an image of the light source focused on the opposite side of the cell . Individual Synechocystis cells moving in two dimensions on an agarose surface in response to different light regimes were tracked microscopically to determine whether single cells are capable of direct perception of the position of a light source . First , we tested the response of cells to a light intensity gradient projected onto the surface from the microscope condenser  , using a gradient of white light from 0–20 µmol photons m–2 s–1 , an intensity range that is relevant for positive phototaxis  . If Synechocystis phototaxis were based on a biochemical memory like E . coli chemotaxis , cells would perceive temporal changes in light intensity as they move across the surface through the light gradient and would then accumulate in regions of optimal light intensity . By contrast , when cells were illuminated by a unidirectional light source  at an angle oblique to the surface  , the majority of motile cells switched direction within about 1 min , and then moved directly towards the light source  . Under illumination from two equal-intensity orthogonal light sources , the majority of cells moved towards a point midway between the two light sources  . In accord with previous studies  , we conclude that individual cells can directly and accurately perceive the position of a light source and control their motility accordingly . Movement of individual Synechocystis cells under different light regimes . Schematic diagram to illustrate the optical set-up for a light gradient projected onto the agar surface  and oblique directional illumination  . Cells moving in a white light gradient from 0–20 µmol photons m–2 s–1 over a 165 µm interval from the top to the bottom of the plot , showing no significant directional bias . Illumination from an oblique RGB LED light source from the right , at intensity 10 µmol photons m–2 s–1 . Illumination from a similar light source placed orthogonally to that in  . Simultaneous illumination from both oblique light sources . Correlation of cell movement with light direction , as a function of time after applying the light . Motility of Synechocystis cells under different illumination regimes . The video gives a schematic overview of the experimental set-up , followed by movement of cells in a projected light gradient , and with oblique illumination from two orthogonal directions , and then from both directions simultaneously . 004 Synechocystis cells contain a dense lamellar system of thylakoid membranes packed with photosynthetic complexes , and we initially postulated that light direction sensing depends on shading by the thylakoids , with the motility apparatus activated by brighter light at the illuminated side of the cell and deactivated at the shaded side of the cell . To assess the plausibility of this idea , we estimated the transmission spectrum of a single motile cell , scaling the absorption spectrum for a cell suspension according to the mean cellular pigment content . To ensure that pigment content was appropriate for phototactic cells , we used cells taken from moving colonies on motility plates  . The transmission spectrum shows that even at peak absorption wavelengths , a single cell can absorb only about 20% of the photons that pass through it  . Although local pigment concentrations within the cell are quite high  , the very short optical path length means that light absorption by the cell is low . Note that our estimate assumes a homogeneous distribution of pigments within the thylakoid region of the cell: in reality , pigment clustering will tend to decrease the cell absorbance due to enhanced self-shading of pigments  . Thus , 20% represents a maximum estimate of the proportion of photons that can be absorbed , and the light intensity gradient across the cell due to shading must be almost negligible . This corresponds to a peak absorption of about 10% of the photons that pass through the cell , which is even lower than our estimate for Synechocystis . Estimated transmission spectrum of a single motile Synechocystis cell . Estimate obtained by scaling and converting the absorption spectrum for a suspension of cells from a moving Synechocystis colony , as detailed in Materials and methods . Pigments  are assumed to be evenly distributed within the thylakoid region as shown in the diagram , and the estimated transmission is for a narrow beam of light passing straight through the center of the cell , with an optical path length through the thylakoid region of 1 μm . The spectrum represents a minimum estimate for transmission through the cell , since the estimate assumes a homogeneous distribution of pigments within the thylakoid region . 005 Most light microscopy uses illumination orthogonal to the surface on which the sample rests , with the exception of dark-field microscopy , which uses oblique illumination from all sides . While investigating Synechocystis phototaxis , we observed cells instead with oblique illumination from one side only . Observations with this unusual illumination suggest a solution to the problem of directional light perception in Synechocystis . These images reveal that each cell acts as a microscopic spherical lens , focusing an intense light spot close to the opposite side of the cell from the light source and the direction of movement  . Images from two orthogonal light sources  are focused at different points on the cell periphery  , indicating that the cell can focus an image of its surroundings at the plasma membrane . Synechocystis cells viewed with oblique illumination from the different directions shown , with enlarged image on the right . Images of periplasmic GFP fluorescence in Synechocystis torA-gfp  . GFP fluorescence profile around the cell circumference , extracted from the epifluorescence image in  with illumination from the right . The profile was taken in an anti-clockwise direction starting at the point nearest the light source . Schematic illustration of the measurement by photolithography of near-field optical effects of a Synechocystis cell . Finite difference time domain model of the light path  through a Synechocystis cell  . The color scale indicates relative light intensity obtained by time-averaging the amplitude of the Poynting vector for the electromagnetic field . Fluorescence excitation was achieved by near-total internal reflection fluorescence   illumination of the samples , with fiber-coupled 488 nm laser light injected into the epifluorescence port of the microscope via the dichroic mirror . The fiber , collimator , quarter-wave plate and total internal reflection  -lens were mounted on a translation stage and positioned such that the focused beam was centered at the BFP of the Olympus 100x objective lens . 007 The images in Figure 3a do not give a quantitative picture of the lensing effect since the focused light spot is observed very indirectly via light reflected from the agar surface . Therefore , to quantify the lensing effect , we first employed a Synechocystis mutant that accumulates green fluorescent protein  evenly distributed in the periplasm  . Thus , GFP can be used as local reporter of light intensity at the cell periphery  since GFP fluorescence will be proportional to the local excitation light intensity . GFP fluorescence images with oblique laser excitation show a spot of light sharply focused at the opposite edge of the cell . Profiles of GFP fluorescence around the cell perimeter  indicate that the mean ratio of the light intensity at the center of this focused spot to the intensity at the front of the cell facing the light source was 4 . Since the measured FWHM for the point-spread function of the microscope was 270 nm , the true FWHM for the focused spot of 488 nm light at the cell periphery can be estimated to be about 550 nm . This experiment shows that for 488 nm light , lensing effects leading to concentration of light at the opposite side of the cell from the light source are overwhelmingly greater than shading effects , which would lead to higher light intensity on the illuminated side of the cell . Therefore , for higher-resolution measurement of near-field light perturbation by Synechocystis cells , we used a photolithographic method that gives a very high resolution image of the light pattern adjacent to the cell , although it does not provide such a direct and quantitative measurement of relative light intensity as the fluorescence imaging in Figure 3b . Synechocystis cells were adsorbed onto the surface of a photopolymer and collimated UV light  was projected vertically down onto them  . After development , the surface relief of the photopolymer gives a high-resolution replica of the light field around and beneath each cell , which we examined by atomic force microscopy  . Synechocystis cells produced distinctive near-field optical scattering patterns on the polymer surface with a remarkably sharp and intense peak beneath the center of each cell . This experiment indicates that near-UV light is focused to a spot with diameter less than the wavelength . Figure 3e also confirms that near-UV light is concentrated at the side of the cell opposite to the light source in a similar manner to light in the visible range . As with visible light  , the lensing effect predominates over any shading effects with near-UV light  . To probe the physical basis for the lensing effect , we modeled light perturbation by the cell with finite difference time domain  simulations , a method that uses the electromagnetic Maxwell equations without any geometrical simplifications  . This electromagnetic description traces all observed effects back to the interference of incoming waves with waves scattered by their encounter with the object , which in this case was a simplified model of the cell as a microsphere with uniform refractive index . We found that the observed near-field light pattern  could be accurately reproduced by an FDTD simulation approximating the cell as a dielectric sphere with a diameter of 3 µm and a refractive index of 1 . Microspheres with similar dimensions to Synechocystis have been experimentally shown to produce similar sharply focused light beams at the edge of the object opposite to the light source: these are termed “photonic nanojets”  . The micro-optic effects shown in Figure 3 produce intensity differences across Synechocystis cells that are opposite in orientation and at least 20 times greater than those predicted from shading due to light absorption by the photosynthetic pigments  . Figure 3a , b , c , e provide direct experimental confirmation that light intensity is highest at the edge of the cell furthest from the light source . This suggests that the basis for directional light perception by Synechocystis should depend on the lensing properties of the cells , with positive phototaxis based on the cell moving away from the light spot focused at its periphery . We tested this idea by using a highly focused laser light spot  as an alternative way to selectively illuminate one edge of the cell . Synechocystis cells moving directionally on an agarose surface towards a red  light emitting diode  light source were visualized by fluorescence from the photosynthetic pigments excited by the LED light . Focused spots of light at the rear periphery of the cell were again observed under this illumination regime  , showing that the focused light spots extend into the thylakoid membrane region . The moving cells were allowed to encounter a spot of 640 nm laser light focused on the agarose surface  . The intensity gradient at the edge of the laser spot was steep enough to ensure specific exposure of one side of the cell to the light  . Whenever one edge of a cell encountered the edge of the laser spot , the cell changed direction to move away from the laser illumination  . Cells did not cross the center of the intense laser spot , but instead changed direction when the laser light intensity at the front edge of the cell exceeded the intensity of the light spot focused by the cell at its rear periphery by a factor of about 2–10 , as assessed from the brightness of fluorescence from the photosynthetic pigments  . In accord with our hypothesis , this shows that Synechocystis phototaxis is essentially a photophobic response to selective excitation of one side of the cell . The data in Figure 4 and Video 2 indicate that this photophobic response is increasingly strong with stronger localized excitation: thus , when the cells encounter laser light that is stronger than the focused light spot at the rear edge of the cell , they change direction to move away from the laser light . Effects of a highly-focused laser spot on directional motility in Synechocystis . Cells are imaged by fluorescence from the photosynthetic pigments , and are moving towards an oblique LED light at the bottom of the frame: note the focused light spot at the rear edge of each cell . Synechocystis cells were moving in response to an oblique 625 nm light source from the direction indicated by the red arrows and allowed to encounter a spot of 640 nm laser light focused on the agarose surface . False color image of fluorescence from the photosynthetic pigments , with the laser spot indicated by the red circle . The broken white lines indicate the approximate cell boundaries and the white arrows highlight examples of the focused images of the light source at the rear edge of the cell . Cells approaching the laser spot show strong selective excitation of the leading edge of the cell . The arrowed lines indicate net displacements of representative cells over time windows of 132 s before and after closest approach to the laser spot . Light intensity required to reverse the path of Synechocystis cells . Tracks of the mid-points of individual cells are shown over a 30 min time window , with a color scale indicating the ratio of laser intensity to the intensity of the phototactic LED light focused on the cell . Purple color indicates tracks of cells in which autofluorescence induced by the laser exceeds autofluorescence induced by the light focused on the cell for phototaxis by at least two-fold . Optical set-up used to measure the response of Synechocystis cells to a highly focused laser light spot  . The focused laser spot was generated by expanding a collimated beam from a fiber-coupled continuous wave  diode laser , injected via the epifluorescence port of the microscope and directed to the objective lens via a dichroic filter . Bright-field trans-illumination was performed by fiber-coupling a 530 nm LED into a multimode fiber and imaging the magnified end of the fiber at the sample plane using a condenser lens . The LED was TTL triggered from via the camera acquisition to reduce light exposure to the cells , resulting in a synchronized 50 ms pulse during acquisition . A third LED  was mounted close to the sample at an oblique angle to provide directional illumination for the motility assay . Here we have shown that Synechocystis cells act as very effective spherical microlenses that focus a sharp image of a light source at the opposite edge of the cell . This implies that positive phototaxis  is actually triggered as a negative response to the focused spot of light at rear periphery of the cell . We directly tested this idea by exposing cells to a spot of red laser light that was sharply focused enough to selectively excite one edge of the cell  . As predicted by our hypothesis , cells moved away from localized laser excitation that was only slightly brighter than the focused image of the light source  . This result is the opposite of what would be expected from a “shading” model for directional light perception , which would predict that light in this intensity range should attract the cells . Synechocystis motility depends on the extension , adhesion and retraction of T4P  , which is powered by the motor ATPases PilB and PilT  . We were unable to generate a strain with functional GFP-tagged PilT , but a strain expressing PilB1-GFP in a ∆pilB1 null background was motile and capable of phototaxis , albeit with lower efficiency than the wild type  . Imaging of PilB1-GFP in Synechocystis shows that it is localized in a crescent-like zone of the plasma membrane at one side of the cell , and that these patches can dynamically relocate to other areas of the membrane  . For cells without directional illumination , random relocation of the PilB1-GFP patch frequently occurs within a 5 min window . The direction of motility in Synechocystis strongly correlates with the position of the PilB1 patch , indicating that direction is determined by the localization of PilB1 , probably in concert with other T4P components such as PilT  . It is clear that multiple photoreceptors are involved in Synechocystis phototaxis , with light sensors that absorb at different wavelengths and trigger either positive or negative phototaxis  . A likely signal transduction pathway would proceed through light activation of PixJ1  that regulates autophosphorylation of the CheA homolog sll0043  via the CheW homolog sll0040  . coli chemotaxis system  , these response regulators might interact directly with the Synechocystis motility apparatus . Combining our current results with the previous study on PilB1 localization and motility in Synechocystis  and the likely scheme for signal transduction discussed above leads to a simple model for control of positive phototaxis in Synechocystis , which is illustrated in Figure 5 . The bright focused image of the light source is perceived by PixJ1 in the plasma membrane , resulting in local changes in the phosphorylation status of the response regulators PixG and/or PixH , which leads to local inactivation of the T4P motility apparatus and dispersal of the motor proteins  . The motility apparatus therefore assembles at the side of the cell facing the light , resulting in movement towards the source  . The 1 min timescale for direction switching in Synechocystis  is consistent with the rapid kinetics of relocalization of PilB1 patches  . Responses to multiple light sources  can be explained if it is assumed that the dispersal signal is graded with light intensity . Thus when a cell is exposed to a stronger light source at one edge  , the motility apparatus is always most strongly inactivated in the region of strongest local illumination . Model for control of positive phototaxis in Synechocystis . Directional illumination of the cell produces a sharply focused and intense spot of light  at the cell periphery on the opposite side from the light source . The focused spot is perceived by photoreceptors in the cytoplasmic membrane  triggering signal transduction via CheY-like response regulators that locally inactivates the T4P motility apparatus , dispersing T4P components including the extension motor PilB1 . Consequently , patches of the motor proteins can only form on the side of the cell facing the light source . Pili are extended and retracted at this side of the cell , which therefore moves towards the light . 011 The model in Figure 5 implies that , essentially the Synechocystis cell functions as a microscopic eyeball , with the spherical cell body as the lens and the cytoplasmic membrane as the retina . From the observed dimensions of the spot of 488 nm light focused by Synechocystis cells  we can estimate that Synechocystis “vision” has an angular resolution  of about 21° , essentially limited by light wavelength and the area of the plasma membrane , which is tiny in comparison to an animal retina . However , this resolution is sufficient to incorporate quite complex spatial information into a 360° image of the cell’s surroundings , and our data in Figure 1e indicate that the cell can integrate information from distinct and spatially separated light sources . The directional motile responses of the cells  show a distribution of displacement angles with FWHM ~30° . This is less accurate than the initial imaging of the light source , which suggests an unsurprising degree of spreading and noise during the signal transduction that comes between initial light perception and the response of the motility apparatus . Our model  implies that the maximum efficiency of directional light sensing will be achieved in a spherical cell . Among the unicellular cyanobacteria , a number of species of the genera Synechocystis and Gloeocapsa are described as motile and phototactic , and these species do indeed have spherical or near-spherical cells  . However , the rod-shaped unicellular thermophilic cyanobacterium Thermosynechococcus elongatus is also motile and appears capable of direct perception of light direction  . The Thermosynechococcus homolog of Synechocystis PixJ1  is clustered at the cell poles  . For our model to be applied to Thermosynechococcus , the cell would need a method to concentrate light at the pole furthest away from the light source . Cyanobacteria are not the only unicellular organisms capable of directional light perception . Rhodospirillum centenum cells form phototactic swarm colonies , with an unknown mechanism of light direction sensing  . Phototaxis in the larger cells of some unicellular eukaryotic green algae is mediated by clusters of photoreceptors known as eyespots , coupled with complex shading and reflecting devices  . However , focused imaging at the cell periphery in the tiny spherical cells of Synechocystis represents a particularly elegant and compact solution to the problem of directional light-perception , that is probably more ancient than the eukaryotic systems . The micro-optic effects that we observe in cyanobacterial cells are relevant not only to phototaxis but also to photosynthesis , since light distribution within the cell is so strongly affected . Future work will also need to explore the biological implications of optical lensing in non-photosynthetic bacteria , since such micro-optic effects are likely to be widespread in bacteria with cells of the appropriate size and shape . Synechocystis cells were grown for at least 24 h on motility medium ( 0 . Cells from the moving front of a colony on a motility plate were resuspended in fresh BG11 medium and 3 µl aliquots were directly spotted on top of 5 ml motility medium in 35 mm glass-bottom plates . Gradient illumination was with white light from the microscope condenser lamp . Light intensities were measured with a LiCOR light-meter with a planar quantum sensor  with a detection window from 400–700 nm . Unless otherwise stated , the exposure time was 200 ms to reduce the background light needed for visualizing the cells . To eliminate artifacts due to wrong mapping of dividing cells or cells in densely populated areas , only cells that could be tracked for at least 25 consecutive frames with an average velocity below 0 . Displacement and orientation were calculated for all cells that could be continuously tracked for 60 frames , during 5 min after the onset of the directional light . Synechocystis cells were scraped from a moving colony on a motility plate and resuspended in fresh BG11 medium . An absorption spectrum for the culture was recorded in an Aminco DW2000 spectrophotometer  , which is equipped with a wide detection window to minimize distortion due to light scattering . After subtraction of the optical density due to light scattering at 750 nm , the absorption spectrum was deconvoluted into chlorophyll and phycobilin components and chlorophyll and phycocyanobilin concentrations were estimated according to the formulae of Myers et al . Effective pigment concentrations in the thylakoid membranes were then estimated by approximating the multiple thylakoid lamellae around the periphery of the cytoplasm as a hollow sphere with inner diameter 1 µm and outer diameter 2 µm , corresponding to the dimensions estimated from fluorescence micrographs . A narrow light beam passing straight through the center of the cell would then have a total path-length of 1 µm through an effective chlorophyll concentration of 6 . To estimate the full single cell absorption spectrum , the absorption spectrum for the culture was scaled appropriately . Note that the calculation considers only light passing straight through the center of the cell and ignores any effects due to refraction and interference . In reality , the photosynthetic pigments will not be evenly distributed in the thylakoid region as we had to assume for the calculation , but rather clustered into membrane layers , reaction centers and light-harvesting complexes . Therefore , the spectrum shown represents a minimum estimate of light transmission through a single cell . The Synechocystis torA-gfp mutant , expressing GFP fused to the TorA leader sequence for export to the periplasm , was previously described  . Suspended cells and excess medium were removed from the chamber , leaving adhered cells and a thin film of liquid , with some areas of the chamber bottom appearing dry . The fiber , collimator , quarter-wave plate and TIR-lens  were mounted on a translation stage and positioned such that the focused beam was centered at the back focal plane  of the Olympus 100× objective lens   . Measurements were taken from a single experimental run , representative of images recorded for three separate cultures of Synechocystis torA-gfp . Fluorescent profiles for spot intensity and FWHM measurements were obtained from the intensity profile of hand-fitted spline curves to the circumference of the cell image starting at the edge opposite to the focus spot  and tracing in an anti-clockwise direction back to the origin . The BG11 medium evaporated under standard clean-room conditions after 30 min , leaving the Synechocystis cells on top of the wafer . The material interface geometry , including assignment of refractive index values to material regions , as well as the incoming light source properties were required to initiate the simulation process . Wild-type motile Synechocystis cells were freshly plated in a line on motility plates and grown overnight at 30°C with directional illumination  in a standing incubator . Blocks of the motility agarose containing the spots were excised from the plate and inverted onto 35 mm glass-bottomed tissue-culture dishes for imaging in a custom-built inverted microscope . The focused laser spot was generated by expanding a collimated beam from a fiber-coupled CW diode laser  , injected via the epifluorescence port of the microscope and directed to the objective lens via a dichroic filter  . Bright-field trans-illumination was performed by fiber-coupling a 530 nm LED  into a multimode fiber and imaging the magnified end of the fiber at the sample plane using a condenser lens . The LED was TTL triggered via the camera acquisition to reduce light exposure to the cells , resulting in a synchronized 50 ms pulse during acquisition . A third LED  was mounted close to the sample at an oblique angle to provide directional illumination for the motility assay . "
"While the dynamin GTPase Drp1 plays a critical role during mitochondrial fission , mechanisms controlling its recruitment to fission sites are unclear . A current assumption is that cytosolic Drp1 is recruited directly to fission sites immediately prior to fission . Using live-cell microscopy , we find evidence for a different model , progressive maturation of Drp1 oligomers on mitochondria through incorporation of smaller mitochondrially-bound Drp1 units . Maturation of a stable Drp1 oligomer does not forcibly lead to fission . Drp1 oligomers also translocate directionally along mitochondria . Ionomycin , a calcium ionophore , causes rapid mitochondrial accumulation of actin filaments followed by Drp1 accumulation at the fission site , and increases fission rate . Inhibiting actin polymerization , myosin IIA , or the formin INF2 reduces both un-stimulated and ionomycin-induced Drp1 accumulation and mitochondrial fission . Actin filaments bind purified Drp1 and increase GTPase activity in a manner that is synergistic with the mitochondrial protein Mff , suggesting a role for direct Drp1/actin interaction . We propose that Drp1 is in dynamic equilibrium on mitochondria in a fission-independent manner , and that fission factors such as actin filaments target productive oligomerization to fission sites . Mitochondrial fission and fusion create a dynamic network that is necessary for mitochondrial distribution and homeostasis . During mitosis , fission is necessary to distribute mitochondria between daughter cells . In neurons , fission and transport maintains mitochondrial distribution throughout the length of these highly polarized cells . Mitochondrial fission is also a fundamental step during mitophagy , a quality control mechanism that removes damaged mitochondrial segments . Dysregulated mitochondrial dynamics are linked to multiple neurological disorders , such as Alzheimer’s , Huntington’s , Parkinson’s , hereditary ataxia , and Charcot-Marie Tooth disease  . The dynamin-like GTPase Drp1 is a central component of the fission machinery , with Drp1 oligomerization and constriction providing a driving force for the process . Drp1 is a cytosolic protein that translocates to the outer mitochondrial membrane   . In solution , Drp1 exists in a number of oligomeric states , including dimers , tetramers , and higher-order oligomers  . Membrane-bound oligomeric Drp1 induces tubulation of associated membrane , and constricts the membrane in the presence of GTP  . Drp1 can bind to the OMM through several factors , including the mitochondrial-specific lipid cardiolipin  ; and several ‘receptors’ on the OMM , such as Mff , MiD49 , and MiD51  . What mechanisms target specific sites on mitochondria for fission ? The endoplasmic reticulum  forms close contacts with mitochondria at the eventual fission site  . Actin polymerization at the ER-mitochondrial interface may be a key component , controlled by the ER-bound formin INF2  and the mitochondrially-bound Spire1C protein  . Inhibition of actin polymerization , myosin II activity , or INF2 causes decreased levels of mitochondrially-bound Drp1 oligomers , suggesting that actin and myosin are acting at the level of Drp1 recruitment . Two additional actin binding proteins , cortactin and cofilin , have also been linked to mitochondrial fission  . Given the number of factors that can mediate Drp1 recruitment to the OMM , as well as the necessity for Drp1 oligomerization at the fission site , a fundamental question concerns the relationship between Drp1 recruitment , oligomerization , and fission . In de novo assembly , cytosolic Drp1 is recruited specifically to fission sites , where it oligomerizes and mediates fission in a concerted series of steps in response to fission signals  . In targeted equilibrium , Drp1 maintains a constant equilibrium between cytosolic and mitochondrial pools , as well as between dimer and oligomer . These equilibria are independent of fission . Fission signals shift these equilibria toward stable oligomerization at targeted fission sites on the OMM . While few studies address the order of events during Drp1 recruitment , de novo assembly is often tacitly assumed  . We observe that mitochondrially-bound Drp1 oligomers mature into stable oligomers through a series of merging events . Some of these Drp1 oligomers are motile—capable of translocating on the mitochondrial surface before engaging in fission . Notably , not all mitochondrially-bound Drp1 oligomers engage in fission . Using ionomycin treatment to induce mitochondrial fission , we show that actin polymerization precedes Drp1 oligomerization , and that actin enriches with Drp1 at fission sites . Inhibition of actin polymerization , INF2 or myosin II decreases ionomycin-induced Drp1 accumulation and mitochondrial fission . Biochemically , actin filaments bind Drp1 directly and enhance its GTPase activity , suggesting that actin filaments can organize Drp1 into a productive oligomer . These results suggest that actin promotes fission by facilitating productive oligomerization of Drp1 on the OMM . To monitor Drp1 dynamics in live cells , we developed a U2OS cell line stably expressing GFP-Drp1 with partial shRNA suppression of endogenous Drp1  . By quantitative western blotting , gDrp-U2OS cells maintain 1 . 64-fold total Drp1 levels compared to control U2OS cells , with 56% endogenous Drp1 and 44% GFP-Drp1  . Mitochondrial morphology appears similar between control U2OS and gDrp-U2OS cells  . We also developed a live-cell assay to measure mitochondrial fission rate , in which peripheral cellular regions are imaged over 10 min for dynamics of a fluorescent mitochondrial marker . Fission events are scored based on stable separation of the marker , and similar fission rates are obtained with either a matrix marker or an OMM marker  . Using this assay , the fission rates of control U2OS and gDrp1-U2OS cells are statistically similar   . Additionally , a second clone displaying undetectable endogenous Drp1 levels and GFP-Drp1 levels ~3 . 5-fold higher than control Drp1 levels displays similar mitochondrial fission frequency to control cells  , suggesting that GFP-Drp1 functionally compensates for endogenous Drp1 in these cells . We used the gDrp1-U2OS line for subsequent studies , due to its overall Drp1 levels being closer to those of control cells . By live-cell confocal microscopy , much of the GFP-Drp1 in gDrp-U2OS cells appears diffuse in the cytoplasm  . However , adjusting the fluorescence threshold to eliminate this diffuse signal reveals abundant Drp1 ‘puncta’ of varying intensity  , likely representing Drp1 oligomers . We arbitrarily defined two categories of puncta: ‘total’ puncta , including all Drp1 signal over the diffuse background; and ‘high-threshold’ puncta , representing the brightest 30% of Drp1 puncta . Here , we use these categories to distinguish between smaller puncta and those approaching maximal size . Mitochondrial association of Drp1 puncta . Time-lapse image of region of gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mito-BFP and processed to remove background GFP  . Arrows denote variety of Drp1 puncta: stable  ; transient  ; punctum at a fission site  . White arrowheads indicate unbound Drp1 puncta . Pie charts of mitochondria-associated versus non-associated Drp1 puncta: left panel , total puncta; right panel , high threshold . Each percentage is calculated by averaging percentages of mitochondrial Drp1 puncta over 201 frames from a 10 min imaging time . Histograms of lifetime distribution for mitochondrial Drp1 puncta , determined over 1200 s total recorded time . Left panel , total puncta; right panel , high threshold . Characterization of stable GFP-Drp1 cell line  . Western blot of control U2OS cells or gDrp1-U2OS cells showing expression level of GFP-Drp1 and endogenous Drp1 with varying amount of extract loaded  . Quantification of endogenous Drp1 and GFP-Drp1 in control U2OS and gDrp1-U2OS cells from western blots  . Comparison of mitochondrial fission rates in control U2OS cells transfected with a mitochondrial matrix marker  versus an OMM marker  . Comparison of fission rate in control U2OS and gDrp1-U2OS cells transiently transfected with mCherry-mito7 plasmid  . 13 ROIs/7 cells for gDrp1-U2OS cells , and 12 ROIs/6 cells control U2OS cells . Analysis of a second GFP-Drp1 stable cell line  . Western blots with varying amount of extract loaded  for both endogenous Drp1 and GFP-Drp1 level in WT U2OS versus stable clone #8 . Quantification of Drp1 and GFP-Drp1 levels in WT U2OS and clone #8 . Drp1 level was normalized to tubulin level when comparing samples , and combined Drp1/GFP-Drp1 level in clone #8 was normalized to the Drp1 level of WT cells . Live-cell analysis of mitochondrial fission rates in WT U2OS and in clone #8 in the absence and presence of ionomycin  . Quantification of number of total Drp1 puncta or high threshold Drp1 puncta  versus length of mitochondria  . Image processing for GFP-Drp1 intensity in gDrp1-U2OS cells . Example of image processing for analysis of Drp1 dynamics . Images were threshold-adjusted by subtracting background Drp1 in the cytosol using a rolling ball algorithm  , followed by smoothing  . Example of categorizing Drp1 puncta based on mean intensity over time . Bar graphs are histograms of mean Drp1 intensity over 90 s  , with the cytosolic “background”  as the most abundant . Top histogram shows “total puncta” to include all puncta over background  , and bottom histogram shows “high threshold” to examine only the brighter puncta  . Micrographs show a merged image of mitochondria and mitochondrially bound puncta  , puncta included in the total puncta category  , and puncta included in the high threshold category  . 005 We employed a particle-tracking algorithm to analyze punctum position and lifetime relative to a mitochondrial matrix marker  . Approximately 49% of total puncta and 70% of high-threshold puncta co-localize with mitochondria at individual frames in the viewing period  . For most puncta , mitochondrial association is transient  , with mean lifetimes of 45 . 1 s for total and high-threshold puncta , respectively  . The largest population of puncta remains bound < 12 s in both cases  , although the high-threshold puncta are significantly more stably associated with mitochondria  . Puncta density on mitochondria does not vary systematically with mitochondrial length , with approximately 0 . 41 total puncta and 0 . 17 high-threshold puncta per μm mitochondrial length  . Left: confocal time-lapse of Drp1 dynamics in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mito-BFP; Right: mitochondrially-associated Drp1 puncta pseudo-colored in blue . 006 How do Drp1 puncta assemble on mitochondria ? We observed three distinct dynamic behaviors associated with mitochondrially-bound Drp1 puncta: punctum merging , punctum motility , and mitochondrial fission . Mitochondrially-bound puncta frequently merge together , with successive merging events resulting in punctum growth  . The combination of these results suggests that a population of Drp1 is in rapid equilibrium between the cytosol and the OMM , and that one mechanism for assembly of larger Drp1 oligomers is through merging of mitochondrially-bound oligomers . Imaging at higher resolution by Airyscan microscopy suggests that maturing puncta are loosely associated with the mitochondrion , and progressively encircle the mitochondrion as they mature  . Maturation of mitochondrially-bound Drp1 puncta . Example of Drp1 maturation events  , followed by mitochondrial fission  . Quantification of mitochondrial Drp1 merging rate , defined as number of merging events per min per number of Drp1 puncta . 5317 puncta from 11 ROIs in four cells based on Trakmate with parameters described before . Line indicates mean   Super-resolution Airyscan live-cell images showing Drp1 maturation   . Drp1 maturation events . Multiple Drp1 merging events , followed by fission at a looped junction   . Drp1 merging event , followed by splitting of the punctum . Three dim Drp1 puncta merge to form a bright punctum at 3 s  . Subsequently , the punctum splits between 6 and 12 s and the resulting two puncta move away from each other  . Confocal time-lapse of Drp1 maturation in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mCherry-mito7  . confocal time-lapse of multiple Drp1 merging events , followed by fission at a looped junction in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mCherry-mito7  . Confocal live cell image of Drp1 merging event , followed by splitting of the punctum in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mCherry-mito7  . Airyscan time-lapse of Drp1 maturation in gDrp1-U2OS cell  transiently expressing mCherry-mito-7  . Time lapse was taken in single z-plane in dorsal region of cells every 7 s . 012 Low-intensity puncta are motile along the OMM , allowing them to interact during merging events  . In addition , a sub-set of high-threshold Drp1 puncta translocates directionally along mitochondria for short distances at a mean velocity of 46 . Assessing the fraction of motile puncta is challenging due to the underlying motility of the mitochondrion itself , thus our analysis is limited to situations where mitochondria are visibly stationary during the viewing period . Motile high-threshold puncta are capable of stopping abruptly and engaging in fission  . Drp1 puncta motility and relationship to mitochondrial fission . Example of motile Drp1 punctum  engaging in fission at 60 s , and a stationary punctum  . Lower panel maps tracks of these puncta . Drp1 punctum translocation velocity on mitochondrion  . Quantification of percentage of Drp1 puncta engaging in fission over the 10 min viewing period for total puncta and for high threshold puncta . Lag time between Drp1 punctum appearance and fission for productive Drp1 puncta . 49 fission events from 11 cells . Relationship between lag time and mitochondrial length for 20 mitochondria . Correlation between mitochondrial length and fission , and Drp1 punctum persistence on mitochondrial ends after mitochondrial fission . Analysis of mitochondrial lengths for mitochondria not undergoing fission  , and mitochondria undergoing fission  over a 10 min imaging period . For dividing mitochondria , mitochondrial length was measured at the frame prior to dividing; for non-dividing mitochondria , length was measured at first frame imaged . Two examples of Drp1 remaining on both new mitochondrial ends after fission events  . Example of Drp1 remaining on only one new mitochondrial end after fission  . Frequency of Drp1 left on ends after fission . Quantification was based on 20 fission events , in which Drp1 puncta were readily resolved after fission . Confocal time-lapse of Drp1 movement along mitochondrion in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing mito-BFP  . Mitochondrially-bound Drp1 puncta were followed by Trackmate . 015 We next assessed the correlation between Drp1 puncta and mitochondrial fission , and found that all observed fission events are associated with high-threshold Drp1 puncta  . However , only a low percentage of Drp1 puncta  engages in observable fission events during the 10 min imaging period . Even for productive puncta , the lag between punctum establishment and mitochondrial fission varies significantly , with a mean of 76 . 3 s  that appears to be independent of mitochondrial length  . These results suggest that establishment of an apparently stable mitochondrially-bound Drp1 oligomer is not sufficient , and that additional steps are required to drive fission . We made two additional observations concerning mitochondrial fission . First , mitochondria undergoing fission tend to be longer than the mean  . Second , Drp1 remains at newly created mitochondrial ends for a significant time after fission . This residual Drp1 can be asymmetrically distributed , with one end inheriting most or all residual Drp1  . We examined Drp1 puncta at higher spatial resolution by live-cell 3D-structured illumination microscopy  , using Tom20-mCherry as the mitochondrial marker in order to label the OMM . We analyzed diameters of both mitochondria and associated Drp1 puncta for ‘productive’ events  and non-productive events  . The mean mitochondrial diameter in the absence of Drp1 is 322 ± 64 nm  . Non-productive high-threshold Drp1 puncta still cause significant constriction  , with mean mitochondrial diameter of 215 ± 50 nm  and Drp1 diameter of 270 ± 38 nm  at these sites . Productive Drp1 puncta undergo significant contraction immediately prior to fission , with mean Drp1 diameter of 200 ± 31 nm in the frame prior to fission  . The mitochondrial diameter in this frame is 134 ± 25 nm , which is at the limit of resolution for 3D-SIM . Our results are qualitatively similar to those obtained from fixed-cell PALM studies  , while adding the dynamic component of contraction prior to fission . Drp1 and mitochondrial diameter by live-cell 3D-SIM . 3D-SIM image of region of a live gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing Tom20-mCherry . Yellow arrowhead , Drp1 punctum engaged in fission . Quantification of mitochondrial diameters from regions devoid of Drp1  or at sites of non-productive stationary puncta  . Quantification of Drp1 diameters for productive Drp1 puncta  versus non-productive puncta  . Diameter variation for seven productive Drp1 puncta over 30 s prior to fission  and for nine non-productive puncta over a similar time  . Time-lapse of fission event from  showing Drp1 punctum constriction . Bottom panel of Drp1 alone is further enlarged  . 3D-SIM imaging of Drp1 and mitochondria . Two close-up examples of non-productive stationary puncta , showing constriction of OMM  in the absence of fission . Additional example of mitochondrial fission event from 3D-SIM  shows morphological changes of Drp1 structures . GFP-Drp1  , mCherry-Tom20   . 3D-SIM time-lapse of Drp1-mediated mitochondrial fission in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing Tom20-mCherry  . 3D-SIM live cell image of Drp1-mediated mitochondrial fission in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing Tom20-mCherry  . 019 We also observed motile puncta by 3D-SIM . These puncta appear to distort as they translocate , periodically separating into strands  . Dynamic shape changes are not characteristic of stable puncta , which can be most easily appreciated when viewing a punctum transitioning from motile to stationary  . Motile puncta appear to encircle the mitochondrion to a significant degree , although the spatial resolution achieved here is not sufficient to answer this question definitively . Punctum velocity in 3D-SIM is similar to that measured by confocal microscopy  . Drp1 motility by live-cell 3D-SIM . Motile Drp1 punctum on a stationary mitochondrion  and stationary Drp1 punctum on a motile mitochondrion  . White arrowhead indicates stationary Drp1 punctum on stationary mitochondrion . Lower panel is zoom of Drp1 alone , indicating changing Drp1 morphology during movement  . Additional example of motile Drp1 punctum from 3D-SIM  . Yellow arrow indicates the motile Drp1 punctum moving along the mitochondrion . White arrowhead indicates stationary Drp1 punctum . Velocity quantification of mitochondrially-associated motile Drp1 puncta from 3D-SIM . 3D-SIM time-lapse of Drp1 movement along mitochondrion in stable gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing Tom20-mCherry  . 3D-SIM live cell image of Drp1 movement along mitochondrion in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently expressing Tom20-mCherry  . 023 What signal might stimulate Drp1 punctum maturation ? We previously showed that mitochondrial length increased upon three cellular treatments: inhibition of actin polymerization by Latrunculin A  , siRNA suppression of the formin protein INF2 , or inhibition of myosin II by chemical inhibitors or siRNA  . The increase in mitochondrial length suggests a fission defect , but could also reflect changes in mitochondrial fusion . Here , we establish that the effect is on mitochondrial fission , using our live-cell fission assay . Suppression of either INF2 or myosin IIA causes an ~50% decrease in fission rate , whereas Drp1 suppression or expression of the dominant-negative Drp1 K38A mutant cause near-complete inhibition  . In addition , suppression of either INF2 or myosin IIA reduces mitochondrially-associated Drp1 puncta , with a moderate reduction of total Drp1 puncta  and a larger reduction in high threshold puncta  . LatA treatment also causes a reduction in mitochondrially-associated Drp1 puncta , although the degree of high threshold reduction is not as great as for INF2 or myosin IIA suppression  . These results support the previous results suggesting a role for actin polymerization in mitochondrial Drp1 assembly . We next examined the relationship between actin filaments and Drp1 during mitochondrial fission by live-cell microscopy in gDrp-U2OS cells . One challenge is the abundance of actin-based structures in U2OS cells . To mitigate this issue , we imaged cells at a focal plane significantly above the ventral surface , where there are fewer actin-based structures such as stress fibers . In this region , we observed frequent examples of actin filaments accumulating prior to fission  , but the overall actin filament abundance in the region remained a challenge for determining whether its presence might contribute to fission . To assess the significance of the actin accumulation , we calculated the mean percentage of mitochondrial area covered by actin  , and compared this number to the percentage of fission events at which actin was present immediately prior to fission . We found that a significantly higher percentage of fission events  were associated with actin filaments than would be expected by random correlation  . Confocal live cell image of mitochondrial fission in an un-stimulated U2OS cell transiently expressing mApple-F-tractin and mito-BFP . Time lapse was taken in single z-plane in dorsal region of cells to avoid massive actin based structures every 3 s . 024 While this correlation is suggestive , the low frequency of fission events is challenging for temporal correlation of actin and Drp1 accumulation prior to fission . To examine this relationship in more detail , we used ionomycin , a calcium ionophore , to increase mitochondrial fission rate  . A recent publication showed that 3T3 cells respond to increased cytosolic calcium with an acute burst of actin polymerization throughout the cytosol , mediated by INF2  . We find a similar ionomycin-induced actin burst in gDrp-U2OS cells  followed by a rapid decline  . Ionomycin treatment also increases mitochondrial fission rate 3 . Similar fission rate increases occur when using mitochondrial matrix markers tagged with either dsRed or BFP  . Ionomycin treatment induces actin polymerization , Drp1 maturation and mitochondrial fission . gDrp1-U2OS cells transiently transfected with mApple-F-tractin and mito-blue plasmids . Time course of changes in Drp1 oligomer and actin filaments  . GFP-Drp1 quantified over whole cell . Actin filaments were quantified from two or three ROIs per cell  , in which no stress fibers or cell edges were included . * denotes total Drp1 puncta or polymerized actin fluorescence  . Mitochondrial fission rate  upon ionomycin treatment in the absence or presence of LatA  or siRNA for INF2 or myosin IIA . Quantification of mitochondrially bound Drp1 puncta ( total puncta  and high threshold  ) in response to ionomycin treatment in control  and INF2 suppressed  cells . Nine ROIs from six control cells and six INF2 suppressed cells . Data first quantified as mitochondrially-bound puncta per mm mitochondrial length , then normalized such that 0 s value = 1 . Airyscan microscopy of a fission site  showing actin filament enrichment  and Drp1 maturation  upon ionomycin treatment  . Suppression of INF2 or myosin IIA decreases fission rate in un-stimulated conditions . Western blots for INF2  or myosinIIA  using lysates from siRNA-treated cells  . Quantification of mitochondrial fission rates in U2OS cells transiently transfected with mito-dsRed in un-stimulated conditions . Fission rate defined as fission events per mm mitochondrial length per min in a defined ROI . 52  ; Drp1 siRNA , 0 . 41  ; and Drp1-K38A over-expression , 0 . Inhibition of actin , INF2 or myosin IIA reduces density of mitochondrially associated Drp1 in unstimulated conditions . Knock down of INF2 or MyosinII-A reduces both total Drp1 puncta  and high threshold Drp1 puncta  . Each value is calculated by averaging density of mitochondrial Drp1 puncta over 201 frames with 3 s time intervals over 10 min imaging time . Quantification is based on 11 ROIs from 4 scRNA treated cells , 9 ROIs from 3 INF2 siRNA treated cells; and 13 ROIs from 5 MyosinIIA siRNA treated cells from 2 independent experiments . Inhibition of actin polymerization by LatA reduces both total Drp1 puncta  and high threshold Drp1 puncta  . Quantification was based on 12 ROIs from five DMSO pre-treated cells; 12 ROIs from six 2 μM LatA pre-treated cell from 2 independent experiments . Actin filament enrichment with Drp1 puncta at fission sites in un-stimulated conditions . Example of actin filaments enriching with Drp1 punctum prior to fission in gDrp1-U2OS cell transiently transfected with mApple-Ftractin and mito-BFP . Upper panel , mitochondrial signal only; middle panel , Drp1 and actin filaments; bottom panel , all three markers . Red arrows indicate fission sites in the upper panel . Yellow arrows indicate Drp1 punctum that overlays with actin filaments , and white arrows indicate Drp1 punctum that does not overlay with actin  . Two examples of image processing for determining the percentage of mitochondrial surface covered by actin filaments . Upper panels are raw images of mitochondria and actin filaments from the frame immediately before mitochondrial fission  . Bottom panels show processed images with% of actin/mitochondrial overlap given . White arrows indicate fission sites . Table comparing the number of fission events at actin-mitochondrial contact sites compared to the expected number if there is no relationship between the presence of actin and mitochondrial fission  . Comparison of mitochondrial fission rates in mitoRed labeled versus mitoBFP labeled cells . 4 min; 9 ROIs from 7 Ionomycin treated , mitoRed labeled cells over 24 . 3 min; 11 ROIs from 10 DMSO treated , mitoBFP labeled cell over 24 . 2 min; 11 ROIs from 8 Ionomycin treated , mitoBFP labeled cell over 21 . Actin filaments accumulate at three mitochondrial constriction sites  prior to Drp1 maturation  . Two of the constriction sites do not undergo fission in this time period  . 029 We next asked whether the quantity of Drp1 oligomers also increased following ionomycin treatment , initially monitoring total Drp1 puncta . Indeed , ionomycin treatment causes Drp1 oligomer signal increases from 10-20% , depending on the experiment , with a consistent t1/2 of 99 . In contrast to the transient actin increase , the Drp1 oligomer signal remains elevated for >10 min . These measurements are rapid to conduct , allowing analysis of every time point in the sequence , but do not provide information on the change in mitochondrially-bound Drp1 puncta . For this reason , we also quantified the change in the number of mitochondrially-associated Drp1 puncta upon ionomycin treatment on a more limited set of time points , and found ~40% increase for low- or high-threshold puncta  . Inhibition of actin , INF2 or myosin IIA reduces ionomycin-induced Drp1 maturation . gDrp1-U2OS cells were transiently transfected with mitochondrial matrix marker , mito-BFP , and actin filament marker , mApple-F-tractin . At 60 s after starting imaging , cells were treated with 4 μM ionomycin  and imaged for 9 min . GFP-Drp1 signals over cytosolic background  were measured per whole cell; actin filament signals were quantified from two or three ROIs per cell  , in which no stress fibers or cell edges were included . Time course of ionomycin-induced changes in Drp1 oligomer and actin filaments after INF2 siRNA treatment  . 11 control cells  , six INF2 siRNA . Time course of ionomycin-induced changes in Drp1 oligomer and actin filaments after myosin IIA siRNA treatment . N = 11 control cells  , 12 myosin IIA siRNA . * denotes total Drp1 puncta or polymerized actin  . 030 In addition , we visually monitored the dynamics of actin and Drp1 at individual ionomycin-induced fission sites by Airyscan microscopy . Prior to ionomycin treatment , a number of low intensity Drp1 puncta dynamically associate with mitochondria , and a meshwork of actin exists throughout the cytoplasm  . This actin meshwork enriches at certain positions on mitochondria , and Drp1 puncta tend to be more abundant at these sites but are dynamic . Upon ionomycin treatment , the actin signal intensifies throughout the cytosol , particularly at sites of mitochondrial crossover . Drp1 puncta mature at these actin-enriched sites , and some of these sites undergo fission while others undergo constriction but no fission during the viewing period  . Airyscan time-lapse of mitochondrial fission in response to Ionomycin treatment in gDrp1-U2OS cell  transiently expressing mApple-F-tractin  and mito-BFP  . Time lapse was taken in single z-plane in dorsal region of cells every 18 s . 031 We tested the association between actin and Drp1 further by inhibiting actin polymerization , followed by ionomycin stimulation . Pre-treatment for 15 min with LatA abolishes both Drp1 accumulation  and the increase in mitochondrial fission  . Suppression of INF2 by siRNA treatment potently inhibits the actin increase , but causes a smaller decrease in whole-cell Drp1 oligomer accumulation than that achieved by LatA  . However , the effect of INF2 suppression on mitochondrially-associated high threshold Drp1 puncta is dramatic , with almost complete elimination of the ionomycin-induced increase  . INF2 suppression also causes a decrease in ionomycin-induced mitochondrial fission  . Interestingly , INF2 suppression has a negligible effect on Drp1 puncta of lower intensity  . These results suggest that INF2-mediated actin polymerization plays a role in Drp1 maturation on mitochondria . Suppression of myosin IIA does not alter the actin response to ionomycin  , but strongly reduces Drp1 oligomerization  and mitochondrial fission  . These experiments suggest that both INF2-induced actin polymerization and myosin II activity are important pre-requisites for productive Drp1 oligomer assembly . The mechanism by which actin might stimulate Drp1 accumulation is unclear . One possibility is that Drp1 binds directly to actin filaments at the fission site , similar to the direct binding between dynamin and actin  . Interestingly , a previous study demonstrates that actin accumulates at clathrin-mediated endocytosis sites prior to dynamin 2 arrival  . Through co-sedimentation assay , Drp1 binds actin with an apparent Kd of 0 . Interestingly , less than 50% of the Drp1 binds actin filaments even at saturating actin concentrations  . This situation is not caused by a significant pool of ‘inactive’ Drp1 in our purified preparation , since >90% of the Drp1 pellets when incubated with a non-hydrolyzable GTP analogue  . We postulate that partial binding is due to differential affinities of Drp1 oligomeric states for actin filaments . In these assays , Drp1 does not change the critical concentration of actin , since actin polymerizes to a similar extent in the absence or presence of Drp1  . Drp1 binds to actin filaments . Co-sedimentation assay in which Drp1  is incubated with indicated concentration of pre-polymerized actin  for 1 hr , then centrifuged at >100 , 000 ×g to sediment actin filaments . Single time point images from TIRF microscopy assay of actin filaments  mixed with saturating concentration of GFP-Drp1 . Negative stain electron microscopy of 2 μM actin filaments in the absence or presence of 1 μM Drp1 . 2 nm  for actin alone; and 27 . 3 nm  for actin/Drp1 . TIRF microscopy time-lapse montage showing GFP-Drp1 dynamics on an actin filament . Time indicates seconds after GFP-Drp1 addition . TIRF microscopy time-lapse montage showing GFP-Drp1 can bundle actin filaments  . TIRF microscopy time-lapse montage showing multiple bundling events by GFP-Drp1  . Actin filaments not shown . Note Drp1-coated filament denoted by blue arrow , which binds by its end to a second filament for ~50 s , before releasing , flipping , binding by its opposite end , then bundling into the second filament . Binding of Drp1 to actin filaments by co-sedimentation assay . 3 μM Drp1 was incubated with the indicated concentration of actin filaments for 1 hr at 23°C . The amount of Drp1 in the pellet with actin filaments was analyzed using Colloidal blue staining SDS-PAGE and ImageJ Software . The standards indicate known amounts of Drp1 and actin , which were used to generate a standard curve to calculate the amount of Drp1 in the pellet . The concentrations of actin and Drp1 indicated in the ‘pellet’ lanes indicate the total amounts present in the assay before centrifugation . The Drp1 band is just below 75 kDa marker , and the actin band is between 37 . 3 μM Drp1 was incubated with 500 μM GMPPCP for 1 hr at 23°C . The standards indicate known amounts of Drp1 . Pyrene-actin polymerization assay of 2 μM actin alone  or with 1 μM Drp1 . Actin was monomeric at time 0  . 033 By total internal reflection  microscopy , GFP-tagged Drp1 binds evenly throughout the actin filament  , with no apparent preference for specific filament regions  . By negative-stain electron microscopy , Drp1-bound filaments have mean widths of 27 . 2 nm for actin alone  . It is unclear whether this increased width is due to Drp1 binding a single filament or to Drp1-mediated filament bundling . The width of a Drp1 dimer is 22 . However , Drp1 can induce filament bundling , as evidenced by TIRF microscopy  . Indeed , time-lapse imaging of the bundling process suggests that filaments have a preferred bundled orientation , and can be end-bound to the sides of Drp1-bound filaments prior to bundling  . TIRF microscopy time-lapse GFP-Drp1  was added to TAMRA-actin filaments  . Actin filaments were polymerized for 10 min prior to GFP-Drp1 addition . TIRF microscopy time-lapse showing filament bundling . GFP-Drp1  was added to TAMRA-actin filaments  . Actin filaments were polymerized for 10 min prior to GFP-Drp1 addition . TIRF microscopy time-lapse showing filament bundling . GFP-Drp1  was added to TAMRA-actin filaments  . Actin filaments were polymerized for 10 min prior to GFP-Drp1 addition . 036 Drp1 binding to anionic lipids such as cardiolipin increases its GTPase activity  , presumably by placing its GTPase domains in close proximity as is found for other dynamin family proteins  . We tested whether actin filaments could also increase Drp1’s GTPase activity and found a ~3 . An additional question is whether actin filaments can synergize with Drp1 receptors on the OMM . Mff alone causes only a slight increase in Drp1 GTPase activity at the concentrations tested . However , the combination of Mff and actin filaments causes a substantial increase in Drp1 activity , far beyond the additive effects of either Mff or actin alone  . These results show that Drp1 binds actin filaments in a manner that stimulates its catalytic activity , and that actin filaments can synergize with Mff to increase productive Drp1 oligomerization . Actin fialments stimulate Drp1 GTP hydrolysis synergistically with Mff . GTPase assays containing 1 μM Drp1 in the presence or absence of 0 . 5 or 1 μM actin  for 5 min before GTP addition  . GTPase assays containing 1 μM Drp1 in the presence or absence of 0 . 5 μM actin  and the indicated concentration of Mff  for 5 min before GTP addition  . Overall , our results support several important and novel features of Drp1 oligomerization . Rather than being an ‘all or none’ process in which Drp1 oligomerization at the fission site is induced de novo by fission signals , we postulate that both Drp1 oligomerization and mitochondrial association are in constant equilibrium even in the absence of fission signals . Fission signals serve to ‘target’ this equilibrium to fission sites . Actin filaments are one such fission signal . We illustrate these features as a three-stage model for fission-productive Drp1: recruitment , maturation , and conversion  . In recruitment , ‘units’ of Drp1 are in rapid equilibrium between cytosolic and mitochondrially-bound pools . These Drp1 units diffuse on the OMM , and merge to form larger units . Maturation is the progressive association of mitochondrially-bound Drp1 units , leading to assembly of an oligomer that fully encircles the mitochondrion . Conversion represents a distinct process in which a site containing a stable Drp1 oligomer is rendered fission-competent . Model for assembly of fission-productive Drp1 on mitochondria . Drp1 units are in equilibrium between cytosol and OMM , possibly binding to OMM receptors such as Mff , MiD49 , MiD51 , or Fis1 , or to cardiolipin . Mitochondrially-bound Drp1 oligomers grow through incorporation of other mitochondrially-bound oligomers , progressively encircling the OMM in the process . The larger Drp1 oligomers constrict the OMM but are not yet competent to drive fission . A stable Drp1 oligomer becomes productive for mitochondrial fission  , with increased Drp1 ring constriction driving membrane ingression . Actin filaments and myosin II clearly stimulate the maturation process , with possible effects on recruitment as well . First , what is the complete list of “fission signals” ? There is evidence that OMM proteins such as Mff , MiD49/51 , and Fis1 , as well as cardiolipin exposure on the OMM , can serve as fission signals . We postulate that actin filaments in proximity to the mitochondrion are another such signal . Other potential factors that might influence fission could include mitochondrial length and mitochondrial branches . We find that fission events occur disproportionately on longer mitochondria , but we do not find an increase in Drp1 puncta density on longer mitochondria , suggesting that maturation is not favored on long mitochondria . It should be realized , however , that most mitochondria exist in a branched network in these cells . The relationship between mitochondrial branching and mitochondrial fission is a fascinating question still to be addressed . Second , do the various fission signals act in series or in parallel ? In other words , do the signals work together within the same fission pathway , or act in alternate pathways ? Both options could be true , depending on the fission signal . For example , we postulate that actin filaments and cardiolipin might represent alternate maturation factors , since both are polyvalent anions . In contrast , actin filaments could work in concert with Mff , either in “coincidence detection” by Drp1  or by actin filaments serving as a reservoir for delivery of Drp1 oligomers to Mff . Recent work has shown that Mff binds preferentially to oligomerized Drp1  , which is consistent with this possibility . We show here that actin filaments and Mff synergize in stimulating Drp1’s GTPase activity . A final possibility is that specific fission factors mediate distinct steps in the process . For example , a recent study on the membrane-altering ability of the Drp1-cardiolipin interaction might suggest that cardiolipin triggers a conversion step  . Third , what is the size of the Drp1 ‘unit’ that is recruited to mitochondria ? We cannot detect the smallest oligomers  in this study for several reasons , including: our threshold procedure forcibly removes these from analysis , and only ~ half of the Drp1 in these cells is GFP-labeled . The available data suggest that the recruited unit may be mixed oligomers of GFP-labeled and endogenous Drp1 . Recent biochemical studies have shown that Drp1 exists in equilibrium between oligomeric states in solution , with some evidence that dimers are the relevant membrane-recruited unit in the case of cardiolipin binding  . On the other hand , in the present study we observe clear instances of Drp1 puncta apparently translocating from cytosol to mitochondrion . Fourth , what steps are stimulated by actin ? Our data show that inhibiting actin polymerization inhibits the accumulation of Drp1 oligomers , suggestive of roles in either recruitment or maturation . Direct Drp1 binding to actin filaments near mitochondria might enhance initial mitochondrial binding , or might accelerate oligomerization steps of cytosolic Drp1 prior to mitochondrial interaction , both of which would aid recruitment . Alternately , actin binding to mitochondrially-bound Drp1 might enhance oligomerization on the mitochondrial surface , which would represent maturation . One possibility is that myosin II activity might lead to Drp1-independent ‘pre-constriction’ of the OMM , as we have proposed previously  . It is also possible that myosin II organizes the INF2-assembled actin filaments in a manner optimal for Drp1 recruitment and/or maturation . Fifth , what are the roles of other actin binding proteins that have been identified as contributing to mitochondrial fission , such as cortactin , cofilin , and Spire 1C  ? There is evidence that mitochondrially-bound Spire 1C and ER-bound INF2 work through the same pathway , suggesting that Spire 1C might serve as a nucleation factor and INF2 as an elongation factor and/or a severing protein . Roles for cortactin and cofilin in the same pathway as Spire 1C/INF2 are possible , but an alternative is that they contribute to a distinct actin-dependent pathway . The fact that steady-state fission rate is only partially reduced by INF2 or myosin IIA suppression  suggests some degree of functional redundancy . Sixth , does the conversion step represent a change in Drp1 structure/activity , or changes in other fission components ? For example , recent publications show that endophilin co-operates with actin and dynamin in clathrin-independent endocytosis  . Seventh , how does ionomycin stimulate mitochondrial fission ? We postulate that , in addition to the known effect of calcium on Drp1 phosphorylation state  , increased cytosolic calcium activates INF2 , as demonstrated in recent work   . Eighth , what is the role of the ER in mitochondrial fission ? The tight association of ER with mitochondria at fission sites  could contribute in two ways . First , ER supplies the INF2 isoform responsible for actin dynamics at the fission site  . Second , ER might contribute to the calcium dynamics necessary for ionomycin-mediated fission , considering the complex relationship between extracellular calcium entry , calcium release from ER , and ER-mitochondrial calcium communication  . Finally , what is the mechanism of Drp1 motility on mitochondria ? Our 3D-SIM time-lapse movies suggest that motile Drp1 oligomers are rings that encircle the mitochondrion , and that these rings change significantly during the motility process , in a manner similar to ‘walking’ along the mitochondrial surface . Another possible mechanism could be ‘treadmilling’ of Drp1 units , adding to one side of the Drp1 oligomer while dissociating from the other side , akin to cytoskeletal polymers . One possibility is something we call the ‘night watchman’ hypothesis , in which motility allows mature Drp1 oligomers to ‘patrol’ the mitochondrion in search of fission signals . mCherry-mito-7 was purchased from Addgene  , and consists of the mitochondrial targeting sequence was from subunit VIII of human cytochrome C oxidase N-terminal to mCherry . Drp1-containing plasmids ( GFP  -Drp1 and GFP  -Drp1 K38A ) were described in Strack et al . These plasmids co-expresse H1 promoter–driven shRNA for endogenous Drp1 as well as GFP-tagged , RNAi-resistant rat Drp1 . Oligonucleotides for human total INF2 siRNA were synthesized by IDT Oligo against target sequence 5’- GGAUCAACCUGGAGAUCAUCCGC-3’  , and 5’- GCAGUACCGCUUCAGCAUUGUCA-3’  . Oligonucleotides for human Drp1siRNA were synthesized by IDT Oligo against target sequence 5’-GCCAGCUAGAUAUUAACAACAAGAA-3’  and 5’- GGAACGCAGAGCAGCGGAAAGAGCT-3’  . U2OS cells are not on the list of mis-identified or cross-contaminated cell lines compiled by the International Cell Line Authentication Committee  , and we have not had them verified by a third party . The stable GFP-Drp1 U2OS cell line  . The gDrp1-U2OS cell line was made by transient transfection of the GFP  -Drp1 plasmid into U2OS cells , followed by selection in G418 . Selected cells were then flow-sorted for GFP signal as single cells onto 96-well plates , and individual clones were analyzed for GFP-Drp1 expression and endogenous Drp1 suppression . For transfection of the U2OS or gDrp1-U2OS lines , cells were seeded at 4 × 105 cells per well of a 6-well dish ~16 hr prior to transfection . Cells were imaged in live cell media  , ~16–24 hr after transfection . For all experiments , the following amounts of DNA were transfected per well  : 400 ng for mito-BFP; 300 ng for GFP-Drp1 and GFP-Drp1 K38A constructs; 850 ng for Tom20-mCherry; 900 ng for mCherry-mito7; 500 ng for mApple-F-Tractin . For siRNA transfections , cells were plated on 6 well plates with 30–40% density , and 2 μl RNAimax  and 63 pg of siRNA were used per well . For Ionomycin treatment , gDrp1-U2OS cells were transfected with mitoBFP and mApple-F-tractin , as described above the day before imaging . Cells were mounted on the microscope for imaging , then treated with 4 μM Ionomycin  at 20 frames  during imaging . For Latrunculin A  pre-incubation followed by ionomycin treatment , cells were transfected with mitoBFP and mApple-F-tractin the day before treatment . Cells were incubated with live cell medium containing LatA  for 15 min before imaging , and ionomycin was added at frame 20  with DMSO used as the negative control . 4 NA Plan Apo objective  using the 403 nm and 450/50 filter for BFP , 491 nm laser and 525/20 filter for GFP , and the 561 nm laser and 593/40 filter for mApple or mCherry . gDrp1-U2OS cells transiently transfected with mitochondrial markers were imaged live by spin disc confocal fluorescence microscopy every 3 s for 10 min in a single focal plane . Regions of interest with readily resolvable mitochondria and Drp1 were processed as described in Figure 1—figure supplement 2A . We thresholded mitochondrially associated Drp1 puncta by using a ImageJ plugin , Colocalization , with the following parameters: Ratio 50%  ; Threshold channel 1: 30  ; Threshold channel 2: 30  ; Display value: 255  . Mitochondrially associated Drp1 puncta were further analyzed by Trackmate V2 . 3  to separate into total puncta and high threshold categories . 5 microns for SIM; LoG detector settings: tracker – LAP tracker , frame to frame linking of 1 micron , track segment gap-closing of 1 micron max distance and 1 frame max frame gap , track segment splitting of 1 micron , and track segment merging of 1 micron . The number of Drp1 puncta in each category were automatically counted frame-by-frame by ImageJ macro , Find Stack Maxima . Files of these ROIs were assembled , then coded and scrambled by one investigator , and analyzed for fission by a second investigator in a blinded manner as to the treatment condition . The second investigator scanned the ROIs frame-by-frame manually for fission events , and determined mitochondrial length within the ROI using the ImageJ macro , Mitochondrial Morphology ( described in Dagda et al .  ) For measuring lengths of individual mitochondria , ROIs were selected that enabled imaging of the entire mitochondrial length where possible . Due to the fact that the majority of mitochondrial mass is in the form of a branched mitochondrial ‘network’ in these cells , and that one end of the network is often in the peri-nuclear region which is difficult to resolve , it was frequently difficult to find both ends of the network , in which case the resolvable length was reported . Polyclonal antibodies against human INF2 N-terminus  or FH1-FH2- C  were raised in rabbits by Covance  , and affinity purified using DID construct  or FH1-FH2  coupled to Sulfolink  . Drp1 was detected using a rabbit monoclonal antibody  at 1:500 dilution . We expressed and purified Human Drp1 000 isoform  from S . Yeast-purified Drp1 was used for TIRF microscopy and negative staining electron microscopy . coli-purified Drp1 was used in high-speed co-sedimentation experiments and GTPase assays . Actin filaments were assembled from monomers  for 1 hr at 23°C by addition of a 10x stock of polymerization buffer  to a 1x final concentration . To maintain ionic strength across all samples , an actin blank was prepared in parallel using G-buffer in place of actin monomers , and used to dilute actin filaments as needed for each sample . Drp1 was diluted to 10 μM in 150 mM NaCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Imidazole , then centrifuged at 100 , 000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C in a TLA-120 rotor  . Drp1  was incubated with varying amounts of actin filaments  for 1 hr at 23°C in a 200 μl volume . Pellets were washed briefly and gently with 100 μl of 50 mM NaCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Imidazole pH 7 . TAMRA-labeled actin  was diluted in TIRF buffer ( 50 mM KCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Hepes pH 7 . 1% BSA ) was polymerized for 10 min in glass flow chambers  , at which point indicated concentrations of GFP-Drp1  was added . The filaments were visualized using an Olympus IX-83 inverted microscope equipped with a 4-channel CellTIRF attachment , appropriate lasers and driven by Metamorph for Olympus software . Drp1 was diluted in 50 mM KCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Hepes pH 7 . To remove potential aggregates or small Drp1 nuclei , Drp1 was centrifuged at 100 , 000 rpm for 20 min at 4°C in a TLA-120 rotor  , and the supernatant was stored on ice for use . 4 μM actin was polymerized for 7 min in G-buffer plus 50 mM KCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Hepes pH 7 . Drp1 was added to polymerized actin for a final concentration of 1 . 3 μM Drp1 and 2 μM actin . Filament widths were quantified using ImageJ . To remove ATP , actin monomers in G-buffer were incubated with Bio-Rad AG1-X2 100–200 mesh anion exchange resin   rotating at 4°C for 5 min , followed by low-speed centrifugation to remove resin . Actin filaments  were polymerized in 50 mM KCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Hepes pH 7 . Drp1 was diluted in 150 mM KCl , 1 mM MgCl2 , 1 mM EGTA , 10 mM Hepes pH 7 . Drp1  was mixed with actin filaments  , and the final ionic strength was adjusted to the equivalent of 75 mM KCl using 4 M KCl stock . Briefly , unlabeled and pyrene-labeled actin were mixed to a concentration of 6 . Polymerization assays were initiated by diluting actin to 2 μM using 1 . 5x polymerization buffer containing the indicated concentrations of Drp1 . "
"Muscle identity reflects the expression by each PC of a specific combination of identity Transcription Factors  . Sequential emergence of several PCs at the same position raised the question of how developmental time controlled muscle identity . Here , we identified roles of Anterior Open and ETS domain lacking in controlling PC birth time and Eyes absent , No Ocelli , and Sine oculis in specifying PC identity . These data provide a dynamic view of the transcriptional control of muscle identity in Drosophila and an extended framework for studying interactions between general myogenic factors and iTFs in evolutionary diversification of muscle shapes . The development of the complex architecture of the body wall musculature of the Drosophila larva – 30 different muscles in each hemi-segment  – is a classical model to decrypt transcription regulatory networks controlling muscle morphological diversity . Muscle identity - orientation , shape , size , attachment sites - reflects the expression by each FC of a specific combination of identity Transcription Factors  . The third step is the asymmetric division of each PC into two FCs or , in some cases , one FC and one adult muscle precursor cell  or pericardial cell . Asymmetric division leads to maintaining expression of some iTFs in one FC and their repression by N signaling in the sibling cell , thereby contributing to muscle lineage diversity  . This henceforth classical , three-step model of muscle identity specification relies heavily on positional information conferring each muscle its identity  . Interestingly , pioneering studies showed that specification of two nearby Even-skipped  expressing PCs was sequential  , but the link between PC birth time and muscle identity remained to be explored . We have previously shown that four PCs , at the origin of one dorsal muscle  and one AMP , and the 6 dorso-lateral  muscles , DA3 , DO3 , DO4 , DO5 , DT1 , and LL1 , are serially selected from a PMC expressing Collier ( Col/Kn , Early B-Cell Factor  in vertebrates  . More precisely , the DA2/AMP , DA3/DO5 and LL1/DO4 PCs are sequentially selected at roughly identical positions in thoracic and abdominal segments , while the DO3/DT1 PC is selected at a slightly posterior position and only in abdominal segments  . Beyond the PC step , col transcription is only maintained in the DA3 muscle  , while other iTFs , the C2H2 zinc finger protein Krüppel  , the homeodomain protein S59  and the Lim-homeodomain protein Tailup  are expressed in the LL1 , DT1 and DA2 lineages , respectively  . Serial emergence of DL PCs , followed by lineage-specific expression of different iTFs , raised the question of how PC selection timing and muscle identity were linked . The discovery that Tup expression led to col repression in the DA2/AMP PC , thereby distinguishing between DA2 and DA3 identities , provided a first insight into this question . We indeed found that the time lag between DA2/AMP and DA3/DO5 PC selection coincides with the period of dorsal regression of Tinman  expression  , such that only the first-born DA2 PC inherits Tin levels above the threshold required for activation of tup and imposing a DA2 fate . Diagrammatic representation of the sequential emergence of four PCs  from the Col expressing PMC , followed by PC into FC divisions ( embryonic stages  10–12 . The name of each PC , FC and muscle is indicated . Col expression is in red , color intensity indicating expression level . Pie chart showing repartition of the DA3 phenotypes into two classes of generic  , and identity  defects . Col immunostaining of late stage 15 embryos;  wt and  , representative examples  of each phenotypic class . 36 chromosomal deficiencies showing DA3 muscle phenotypes . wt DA3 Col expression at stage 16  , is lost in star  mutant embryos  . Insets show Col expression in the DA3/DO5  and DT1/DO3  PCs  . Col expression is only detected in the posterior-most DT1/DO3 PC in SIIN mutants  . MHC staining of wt  and SIIN  embryos; the DA2 is present  in SIIN embryos , while the only DL muscle forming in absence of EGF-R signaling is DT1  . Of note , muscles issued from dorsal PCs , including the alary muscles , form . We describe the roles of No Ocelli  , a NET family zinc finger protein  , Sine oculis  , a member of the Six family of homeodomain proteins  , and the co-factor ETS domain lacking Edl  in DL muscle development , and in more detail , roles of Eyes-absent  , a partner of Six proteins  , and Anterior open  , an Ets-domain transcription repressor  . Analysis of the aop , edl , eya , noc and so muscle mutant phenotypes and time windows of transcription , combined with col transcription in the different mutant contexts , revealed a cascade of regulations including coherent and incoherent feed-forward loops , which link PC selection time to muscle identity . aop and edl control the temporal sequence of DL PC selections , eya is required in PCs for maintaining iTF transcription , while so and one eya-specific isoform are deployed at the FC step . Finally , noc regulates expression of other iTFs , at the PC or FC step , depending upon the muscle lineage . Integration of these new data with pre-existing knowledge provides a comprehensive , dynamic view of the transcriptional control of muscle identity in Drosophila , and an extended framework for studies of interactions between general myogenic factors such as Nautilus  /MyoD and Eya , and iTFs in the diversification of muscle lineages during animal evolution . Homozygous deficiency embryos were first examined for DA3 Col expression at the end of the fusion phase , embryonic stage 15 . Nuclear Col localization allowed appraisal both of DA3 formation and shape , the number and spatial distribution of DA3 nuclei , and the presence of ectopic Col-expressing muscles . General embryonic defects could be identified by the loss , or gross disturbance of Col expression elsewhere , in the central and peripheral nervous systems , and/or lymph gland  , and the corresponding chromosomal deficiencies were not considered here . The observed DA3 phenotypes were divided into two broad classes  : Class 1: Decreased number or abnormal repartition of nuclei  ; Class 2: Abnormal DA3 orientation and/or either loss of Col expression or ectopic Col expression in additional muscles  . To identify the gene  whose loss caused a DA3 phenotype in mapped deletions , we tested the most promising candidates for which loss of function mutants were available . Among the 15 genes associated with identity phenotypes  , six encoded components of either the N or Robo/Slit signaling pathways , two pathways previously implicated at different steps of DA3 muscle formation  and were therefore not further studied . Four other encoded components of the EGF-R signaling pathway: spitz  , Star  , aop  , and edl  , while a deficiency ( Df  BSC259 ) removing both mesodermal FGFs , Thisbe and Pyramus ,  did not show a DA3 phenotype . A complete lack of DA3 , DO5 , DO4 and LL1 muscles in mutants for either spi  , the EGF-R signal , or Star  , a chaperone protein required for Spi processing  , confirmed the central role of Epidermal Growth Factor-Receptor  signaling in specification of these DL muscles  . Seven identity genes encoded transcriptional regulators , and potentially , new muscle iTFs: aop , edl , eya , noc , so , spalt major  and tup  . Previous studies showed that the Ets-domain transcription activator Pointed  , and transcription repressor Aop/Yan  , promoted and inhibited the formation of Eve-expressing dorsal PCs , respectively , downstream of EGF-R signaling  . Comparing the aop and edl phenotypes thus provided an opportunity to further characterize outputs of EGF-R signaling in muscle identity specification . Whereas we previously reported tup function in dorsal muscle identity , neither function of noc , salm nor so in muscle development was previously characterized . eya was proposed to interact with Six4 in Drosophila somatic muscle development , both genes showing similar expression patterns  . Our identification of so mutants in our screen and the difference between the eya and so phenotypes  called for a detailed comparison of eya and so expression and function in muscle PCs . Specific muscle patterning defects in aop , edl , eya , noc and so mutant embryos . Late stage 15 embryos stained for Col , to visualize the DA3 muscle . wt ,  embryos homozygous mutant for aop , edl , eya , noc and so null alleles with their names indicated . Inserts in  show Col expression in PCs , stage 11 . stage 16 embryos stained for Col  and β3-tubulin  to visualize all body wall muscles; arrowheads point to LT1 and LT2 , asterisks indicate DT1; DA2 is surrounded by a line in G , I , and LL1 by a dotted line in G . aop1  edll19; Col is expressed in DA2 and DA3 . eyaCII/Df  BSC354; DA3 Col expression is lost; inset , LL1>DA3 transformation . noc35ba2: Col expression is lost . Stage 16 embryos stained for β3-tubulin  , βPS integrin  , to visualize tendon cell-muscle connections and moeGFP  expressed under control of a DA3-specific col CRM  , abbreviated col-gfp . wt; DA3 ventral and dorsal attachment along the anterior and posterior segmental borders , respectively , are indicated by asterisks; inset , DT1  . aop; DA3 with both DA3 and DA2-like  anterior attachments; DA3>DA2 transformation , inset . edl: moeGFP expression in DA2 and DA3  . The arrow indicates partial DA2>DA3 transformation; inset , bifid anterior DA3 attachment . eya: moeGFP is lost in most segments or indicates partial or complete  DA3>DA2 transformation . noc: DA3>DT1 transformation , resulting in DT1  duplication . so: moeGFP expression in DO5; DO5>DA3 transformation  in some segments . Schematic diagram of the most frequent DA2 and DL muscle phenotypes in aop , edl , eya , noc and so mutants; Col expression is in red; see Figure 2—source data 1 for statistics . Quantification of muscle phenotypes observed in aop , edl , eya , noc and so mutant stage 15 embryos . DA3>DA2: complete or partial DA3 into DA2 muscle orientation; DA2>DA3: complete or partial DA2 into DA3 muscle orientation; ColexpDO5: DO5 muscle expressing Col . Loss of Col: loss of DA3 muscle Col expression . DA3>DT1 transformations have been quantified in colLCRM-moeGFP embryos . salm1 is required for proper skeletal attachment and morphology of the DA3 muscle . the white arrow and arrowhead point to a loose DA3 anterior attachment and a vertical DA3 fiber with no posterior attachment , respectively; the inset shows dorsal muscles without defined posterior attachment sites . Staining for MoeGFP expressed under control of a DA3-specific CRM   and βPS integrin  . No βPS integrin accumulation is detected at the position of DL muscle attachment sites  in salm1 mutant embryos  . Snapshots of Videos 1–6 , showing β3-tubulin staining of muscles  and Col expression  in stage 16 embryos . The positions of DA3 , and DA2 and DA3 muscles are indicated in A , F , G , and C , respectively . DO5>DA3 and LL1>DA3 transformations are indicated in F , F” and G , G” , and F , respectively . 009 To better assess the muscle phenotypes associated with each mutant , we examined the pattern of DL muscles in late stage 15 embryos immunostained for β3Tubulin , using Col staining to visualize DA3  . In addition , we introduced the DA3-specific colLCRM-moeGFP reporter gene  , to precisely visualize the DA3 contours in these mutant backgrounds . Stability of the MoeGFP fusion protein also allowed following 'DA3' muscles in noc and eya mutants which lack Col expression  . In order to verify that muscle phenotypes were not associated with defective tendon cell differentiation , we stained mutant embryos for βPS integrin which accumulates at muscle-tendon junctions  . Unlike salm , no βPS integrin accumulation defects were detected in null mutants for aop  , edl  , noc  , eya  , and so  mutants  , confirming muscle identity defects . 010 In aop mutants , the DA3 muscle  was misshapen in 2/3 of segments  , with cases of DA3 to DA2 transformation  . The DT1 and LL1 muscles were also malformed in 40% segments  and lateral and ventral muscles were severely disorganized . The DA2 muscle was unaffected  . colLCRM-moeGFP expression confirmed an abnormal shape of the DA3 muscle suggestive of partial DA3>DA2 transformation  . In edl mutants , a second Col-expressing muscle was observed in some segments , sometimes associated with morphological change suggestive of DA2>DA3 transformation  . colLCRM-moeGFP expression confirmed a DA2>DA3 transformation in 47% of segments  , but also revealed a number of reciprocal at least partial DA3>DA2 transformations   . In eya mutants , DA3 Col expression was lost , a loss already observed at the PC stage  . Consistent with loss of Col expression early during muscle specification , the DL muscle pattern was severely disorganized in most of segments . The LL1 was absent or oriented like DA3  a phenotype already observed in col mutant embryos  . colLCRM-moeGFP expression revealed a , sometimes complete or partial , DA3>DA2 transformation  . noc mutant embryos also lacked DA3 Col expression at stage 15  . Contrary to eya mutants , however , Col expression was detected at the PC stage  , indicating a role of noc in maintenance of Col expression in the DA3 lineage . colLCRM-moeGFP expression further revealed that the DA3 could orient like a DT1 in most segments , indicating a DA3>DT1 identity shift resulting in DT1 duplication  . In so mutants , Col ectopic expression was specifically observed in DO5  . colLCRM-moeGFP expression both confirmed col ectopic expression in the DO5 muscle and its DA3-like orientation in a fraction of segments ( Figure 2R , arrowhead , indicating a partial DO5>DA3 identity shift in 79/116 segments  . 3-D view of the muscle pattern in stage 16 aop1 embryos , Figure 2H . 3-D view of the muscle pattern in stage 16 noc35ba2 embryos , Figure 2KDOI: http://dx . 015 In summary , we found that aop , edl , eya , noc , and so mutants display distinctive patterns of DL muscle defects and DA3 transformations , associated with modifications of Col expression  , indicating that each gene acts in different subsets of DL muscles , and/or at different steps of muscle identity specification . Understanding the specific muscle transformations observed in aop , edl , eya , noc , and so mutants required determining their expression patterns at the PMC , PC and FC stages . To follow PC delamination events , we used Nau , the Drosophila ortholog of vertebrate myogenic regulatory factors  , a marker of PCs and FCs  . High-resolution 3-D analyses allow us to unambiguously identify the DA2/AMP and DL PCs and the derived DA2 , DA3 and DO5 FCs and AMP  . In early stage 10 embryos , the first selected , DA2/AMP PC is recognizable as a large apical cell , expressing high Nau levels  . At stage 11 , after the DA2/AMP PC has divided , the DA3/DO5 PC is observed , adjacent to the DA2 FC  . 3-D analyses also revealed previously undescribed , low level Nau expression in two or three cells surrounding each PC being selected  . This Nau expression pattern was reminiscent of subgroups of PMCs cells displaying higher level dpMAPK  , diagnostic of EGFR activity  and postulated to be cells primed to become PCs . Double staining confirmed that the Nau and dpMAPK patterns overlap , revealing that low level Nau expression corresponds to cells transitioning from PMC to PC , before reaching high level in selected PCs  . Multiple FCs originate from the Col-expressing PMC . aop and edl differential expression and roles during PC selection . Schematic representation of the positions of DL PCs and FCs , relative to the A/P , D/V and proximal/distal axes in stage 10 , 11 and 12 wt embryos  ; the blue trapeziums indicate planes of section shown in panels  and  ; Col expression is in red . ISH to aop  and edl  primary transcripts  , in wt embryos stained for Col  and Nau  , at stages indicated above; early stage is abbreviated ste; two different planes of the same embryo are shown in B and B’ , F and F’ . aop transcription in the Col PMC  , and the AMP  . edl transcription in all PCs , the AMP and the DA3 FC . Nau accumulation in two to three Col PMC cells , below the emerging PC . 3D reconstruction of the Col PMC during DA2/AMP and DA3/DO5 PC selection; Col staining , red , Nau , green . wt;  apical DA2/AMP PC  ;  apical DA3/DO5 PC  , DA2 FC and AMP  . aop embryos;  premature DA3/DO5 PC selection; additional Nau-expressing PMC cells  , become PCs ,  . edl embryos;  no PC is selected; a group of 3 to 4 Nau-expressing cells is embedded in the Col PMC;  two PCs are simultaneously selected . ISH to col primary transcripts  , Nau staining  ;  wt; sequential col transcription in the PMC and DA2/AMP PC  , DA3/DO5 PC  , and DA3 FC  . aop mutant: simultaneous col transcription in two apical PCs; increased number of low level Nau-expressing cells  . edl mutant; ectopic col transcription in the DA2/AMP PC  and DA2 FC  . Measurement of the diameter of Col  and Nau  expressing domains in early stage 10 wt and aop embryos . The Col expression domain is identical  and Nau domain expanded in aop compared to wt  , schematized on top of the statistics . Col  is expressed in a large promuscular cluster and the FCs at the origin of the DA3 , DO5 , LL1 , DO3 , DT1 and DO4 muscles , indicated on the screenshot . Col expression has been lost from the DA2 FC and the AMP at this stage . Schematic representation of the positions of the DA2/AMP PC , relative to the A/P , D/V and proximal/distal axis in stage early 10  and late 10  ; the trapezium indicates planes of sections shown in panels  . Extended analysis of the aop muscle mutant phenotype . stage 16 embryos stained for Col  and F-actin  . wt ,  aop1mutant embryo displaying several DA3  or LL1  muscles . 020 FISH experiments indicated aop transcription in Col PMC cells  , but not PCs  , indicating its repression during the PC selection process , consistent with a role in promoting FCM fate  and being a target of the FCM TF Lameduck  . Conversely , edl transcription was not detected in PMC cells , but in PCs and the dorsal AMP and DA3 FC  . In stage 10 aop mutant embryos , col transcription was detected in PMC cells as in wt  . However , a significantly increased number of cells expressing low Nau level revealed that aop down-regulation of EGF-R signaling was required to restrict Nau expression to PMC cells primed to become PCs  . Furthermore , 3-D reconstructions confirmed the presence of two apical cells expressing high Nau Level  , when only the DA2/AMP PC was observed in wt  . Thus , concomitant , early selection of two PCs in aop embryos prefigures the DA3>DA2 transformation  . At stage 11 , Nau remained expressed at high level in several cells , showing that supplementary PMC cells are primed to become PCs  . This corroborates the observation of several aligned DA3-like fibers revealed by phalloidin staining of stage 16 aop mutant embryos  . Conversely , in edl mutant embryos , no high Nau-expressing apical cell was observed at stage 10  , when the DA2/AMP PC is selected in wt embryos . Rather , three to four small low Nau-positive cells remained embedded in the Col PMC   both of which transcribed col  . Accordingly , col transcription was maintained in two cells at late stage 11 , at positions corresponding to DA2 and DA3 FCs in wt embryos  . In summary , we found that sequential PC selection is inversely compromised in aop and edl mutants . In absence of aop , the DA3/DO5 , and supernumerary PCs are selected early , and in absence of edl , the DA2/AMP is selected too late . We have previously shown that the time lag between DA2/AMP and DA3/DO5 PC selection coincided with a period of dorsal regression of Tin expression , such that only the first selected , DA2/AMP PC inherited Tin  . Tin staining of aop mutant embryos showed that the two apical cells observed at stage 10 inherit Tin  , confirming advanced selection of the DA3/DO5 PC . Conversely , in edl mutants , none of the apical cells inherited Tin , confirming a delayed selection of the DA2/AMP PC  , consistent with both transcribing col  . To verify that the observed shifts in PC selection timing lead to shifts of PC identity , we analyzed tup transcription . As previously shown , only the DA2/AMP PC inherits Tin levels above the threshold required for tup activation  , leading in turn to col repression and initiation of tup auto-regulation  . We found that , in aop mutants , early selected PCs transcribed tup  , while in edl mutants , late selected PCs did not  , mirroring col transcription  . Together , Tin , tup and col expression data , and the DA3>DA2 and DA2>DA3 muscle transformations predominantly observed in aop and edl embryos , respectively , show that timely PC selection is essential for each PC to inherit different Tin levels and either initiate tup  or col  feed-forward positive loops . Positive auto-regulation , a hallmark of bistable systems  , of either tup or col distinguishes between DA2 and DA3 identities  . aop and edl control the temporal sequence of PC selection . Schematic representation of the DA2/AMP PC and FCs and DA3/DO5 PC , at stages 10  and 11  ; the blue trapeziums indicate the planes of section shown below . Tin  and Col  embryo staining . Tin expression in the DA2/AMP PC and underlying PMC cells . Tin expression has regressed dorsally; the DA3/DO5 PC and underlying PMC cells are Tin negative . aop mutants;  , stage 10 , two Col and Tin-expressing PCs are selected;  stage 11 , Col positive , Tin-negative cells are selected . edl mutants;  , No PC is selected . FISH to tup primary transcripts in wt  aop  and edl  stage 10  and 11  embryos , stained for Col  and Nau  . In wt embryos  tup expression is only detected in the first selected Col positive PC  . In aop mutants  , tup transcription is sometimes detected  in a second Col positive PC  . In edl mutants  , tup transcription is frequently lost in Col positive PCs  . Summary scheme of the aop and edl phenotypes; wt , late stage  10; only the first-born , DA2/AMP PC inherits Tin , and activates tup , preventing Col autoregulation  which occurs in the second born , DA3/DO5 PC , in absence of Tin and Tup , stage 11  . In edl and aop mutants , the temporal sequence of PC selection is compromised; it occurs too early and too late in aop and edl mutants , respectively , leading to confusions of DA2 and DA3 fates . FISH performed with a probe complementary to a common coding region , eyae , detected eya expression in the Col PMC , DA2/AMP , DA3/DO5 and LL1/DO4 PCs and DO5 lineage  . However , an intronic probe specific for transcripts initiated from the 5’-most TSS  revealed that eya-RB transcription was restricted to the AMP , DO5 FC/muscle and the LL1/DO4 PC  , implying that , conversely , eya-RA/RC is specifically expressed in the PMC , the DA2/AMP and the DA3/DO5 PCs . In eya mutants , col transcription was detected in PMC cells like in wt  , but prematurely lost in the DA3/DO5 PC , and undetectable in the DA3 FC  , showing that eya-RA/RC is required for sustained col transcription during PC specification . Reciprocally , both eya-RA/RC transcripts in the DA3/DO5 PC  and eya-RB transcripts in the DO5 FC  were lost in col mutants , revealing that Eya and Col positively regulate each other transcription . Whether , both eya-RA/RC , and eya-RB are under direct control of Col binding to a dedicated cis-regulatory module   , or eya-RB control is indirect , and requires prior expression of eya-RA/RC at the PC stage  , remains unknown . Sequential eya and so transcription and control of col transcription in distinct muscle lineages . Schematic representation of the positions of DL PCs and FCs in stage 10 , 11 and 12 wt embryos , reproduced from Figure 3A; the blue trapeziums indicate the planes of section shown below , panels  . ISH to eya and so transcripts  in wt embryos stained for Col  and Nau  . , eya expression in the DA2/AMP  , DA3/DO5  AMP and DO5 FC  LL1/DO3 PC  . Schematic representation of the DL muscle pattern , DA3 in red and DO5 in grey . eya-RB transcription in the AMP DO5 FC  and LL1/DO4 PC  . so transcription in the DA2/AMP , DA3/DO5 and LL1/DO4 PCs , DO5 FC and muscle . Loss of col transcription in the DA3/DO5 PC in eya mutants . Loss of eya-RB transcription in col mutants  . col ectopic transcription in the DO5 FC in so mutants . Summary diagram of eya and so expression and function in DL muscle lineages . eya_Col CRM activity depends upon in vivo Col binding  . Schematic representation of the DL PCs , FCs and muscles as in Figure 5 . ISH to eya and so transcripts  in wt embryos stained for Col  and Nau  . Loss of DA3 Col expression in Six4 mutant embryos . Col expression is detected in 100% of segments in wt embryos  , and lost in 84% of segments in Six4 mutants  . In most of the remaining muscles , residual Col expression indicates a DA3>DA2 transformation  . Col expression is already lost at the PC stage in Six4 mutants  , similar to the loss observed in eya mutants  . We found that so was transcribed in the DA2/AMP , DA3/DO5 and LL1/DO4 PCs and subsequently maintained only in the DO5 FC and muscle  . col transcription in DL PCs was normal in so mutants , showing that So is not required for Eya-RA/RC regulation of col transcription  . On the contrary , col was ectopically transcribed in the DO5 FC  , showing that so activity contributes to repress col transcription in this lineage . so transcription in the DO5 FC and contribution to distinguishing between the DA3 and DO5 identities suggests that so could act downstream of N in this process  . The difference between the eya and so DA3 mutant phenotypes  suggested that eya was partnering with Six4 to positively regulate col . To verify this assertion , we analyzed DA3 Col expression in Six4 mutants . The loss of Col expression  , very similar to that observed in eya mutants  , supports the conclusion that Eya partners with Six4 to positively , and with So to negatively regulate col . noc is required for DA3 Col expression and DA3 formation  . A deficiency removing elb ( Df  exel6035 ) had no DL muscle phenotype , while the phenotypes of noc35ba2 mutants and a deficiency removing both elb and noc were identical  . FISH experiments revealed noc transcription in Col PMC cells which express low Nau level , followed by the DA2/AMP , the DA3/DO5 and the LL1/DO4 , but not the DT1/DO3 PC  . In noc mutants , col transcription was detected in the PMC and DA3/DO5 PC  but completely lost from the DA3 FC  , correlating with the loss of Col DA3 expression after the PC stage  . The DA3>DT1 transformation observed at stage 15 in noc mutants  was therefore intriguing , since a DA3>DA2 identity shift was observed in other mutants where DA3 Col expression was lost , namely col , eya and Six4  . Since DT1 identity requires S59 expression in the DT1 FC  , we analyzed S59 expression in noc mutant embryos and found that it was ectopically expressed in the DA3 FC  , consistent with DA3>DT1 transformation . This finding suggested that loss of DA3 Col expression in noc embryos was secondary to gain of S59 expression . While the muscle pattern was severely disorganized , loss of Col expression in Twi>S59 embryos demonstrated S59 ability to repress col mesodermal expression  . We next analyzed col transcription in S59 mutants and found that it was ectopically transcribed in one posterior DL FC , likely DT1  . On the one hand , these data confirmed that S59 represses col transcription in the DT1 lineage , via an incoherent feed-forward loop initiated by Col activation of S59 in the DT1/DO3 PC  . On the other hand , noc and S59 loss-of-function and S59 gain-of-function data revealed a double negative regulatory cascade where noc repression of S59 maintains col transcription in the DA3 lineage and DA3 identity  . Noc expression in the DA3/DO5 PC and not the DT1/DO3 PC  thus distinguishes between DA3 and DT1 identities  . noc transcription and control of col and S59 transcription in DL muscle lineages . Relative positions of DL PCs and FCs between stages 10 and 12 , reproduced from Figure 3A; the blue trapeziums indicate the planes of section shown below , panels  . , Embryos co-stained for Nau  and Col  ;  noc transcription  in a small subset of Col PMC cells expressing low Nau level  , the DA2/AMP  , DA3/DO5 and DA3 and DO5 FCs  and LL1/DO4 but not the DT1/DO3 PC  . Embryos stained for Nau  and  Col  . loss of col transcription in the DA3 FC  in noc mutants . wt S59 transcription in DT1  and  ectopic transcription in the DA3 FC  in noc mutant embryos . Summary diagram of noc expression and function in DL muscle lineages . stage 16 embryos stained for Col  and β3-tubulin  . The muscle pattern is strongly disorganized , and Col muscle expression is lost . stage 13 embryos stained for col primary transcripts  , Col  and Nau  . At this stage , col expression is rarely detected in these cells  . col expression is maintained in at least one posterior cell , likely the DT1 FC  . eya and noc are required for Kr expression in the LL1 FC . Stage 12 embryos stained for Col  and Kr  . wt , co-expression of Col and Kr in the LL1 FC  . Kr expression is detected in aop1  , edlL19  and so3  , and lost in eyaCII/Df  BSC354  and noc35ba2  mutant embryos . aop and edl positively and negative regulate Nau expression  in a subset of PMC cells , favoring and inhibiting selection of PCs from PMC cells , respectively . Center , PC specification: the dorsal DA2/AMP and dorso-lateral DA3/DO5 , LL1/DO4 and DT1/DO3 PCs are represented . Right , FC specification; only the DA3 and DO5 lineages are detailed . 029 Analysis of the DL muscle phenotypes showed that formation of the LL1 muscle is also affected in noc , aop and eya mutants  . We found that Kr expression in the LL1/DO4  PC required both noc and eya activity , but neither aop nor col   . We show here that noc is required for distinguishing between DA3 and DT1 muscle identities . Primary transcript analyses revealed that noc maintenance of col transcription in the DA3 lineage involved a double Noc —|S59 —|col negative loop . Col activation of S59 expression  initiates a negative , 'incoherent' feed-forward loop in the DT1/DO3 PC , resulting in Col repression and DT1 identity . Noc breaks this loop in the DA3 lineage  . noc is transcribed in myoblasts expressing low Nau level whose number is controlled by EGF-R signaling , and selected PCs  . Our previous finding that several PCs are sequentially selected from the Col PMC and each express a specific iTF code brought to light the importance of time in muscle identity specification  . We report here that aop and edl , are required for the robustness of sequential selection of the DA2/AMP and DA3/DO5 PCs . A consequence of lack of Aop function is the premature , concomitant selection of several Nau-expressing PCs , when sequential in wt embryos . These data indicate that Aop acts to restrict EGF-R MAPK activity to prospective PCs , as previously suggested  . Inversely , edl expression in selected cells and delayed PC delamination in edl mutant embryos indicate that Edl ensures timely progression of primed cells to a stable PC fate . Our observation of an increased number of Nau-positive cells in aop mutants revealed that Nau/MyoD is expressed in myoblasts primed to a PC fate . The detection of Nau expression in PMC cells subject to high EGF-R signaling raises the possibility that Nau could play earlier functions than previously thought in the PC specification process . The time lag between DA2/AMP and DA3/DO5 PC emergence coincides with dorsal regression of Tin expression , due to an auto-regulatory circuit in which Tin progressively limits its own transcription  . We previously showed that only the DA2/AMP PC inherited Tin  . Considering Tin levels as a translation of developmental time , our new results show that EGF-R control of serial PC selection converts this translation into sharp transcriptional decisions and ultimately distinct muscle identities  . Tup and Col direct up-regulation of their own transcription after the PC stage  can explain why small differences in initial expression levels are transformed into stable muscle fates . Drosophila Six4 was previously proposed to interact with Eya in regulating somatic muscle development , both genes showing similar expression pattern  . Our data show that one eya isoform , eya-RB , is transcribed later than the other isoforms  , owing to a switch in TSS , correlating with the profile of in vivo RNA polymerase II binding  . Together , these expression data and our finding that eya and Six4 regulate positively , and so negatively , col transcription , suggest that Eya could switch from activator to repressor , by changing partner , from Six4 to So . We thus hypothesize that sequential partnering of different Eya isoforms and Six proteins could contribute the diversity of iTF codes and muscle morphologies  . It would be interesting to determine whether different eya isoforms are also involved in different Six partnerships and control different facets of muscle development in vertebrates . Characterisation of aop , edl , eya , noc and so functions and transcription dynamics revealed that distinguishing between DA3 , versus DA2 , DT1 or DO5 identities involves specific sequences of transcriptional regulations integrating temporal and positional cues  . Besides clear transformations suggestive of complete identity switch , a significant fraction of muscles show incomplete transformations in iTF mutant embryos . This supports the idea that , rather than lineage-specific 'master iTFs' , stereotypy of Drosophila muscle patterns relies upon combinatorial inputs of multiple iTFs during PC and FC specification . 5 , Eya , Six1 , Islet1 , Col/Ebf and MyoD , are core components of transcriptional regulatory networks controlling the development of pharyngeal/facial muscles originating from the cardio-pharyngeal territory in chordates . , except that embryos were stained with a monoclonal mouse antibody against the Col protein  . Genetic complementation assays were used to identify genes in chromosomal deficiencies whose loss led to DA3 phenotype . Homozygous aop1 , edlL19 , eyaCII/IID , so3 , noc35ba2 , salm1 , and col1 homozygous mutants showed muscle phenotypes identical to trans-heterozygous mutants over deficiency . For eya analysis , we used eyaCII/IID/Df  BSC354 trans-heterozygous embryos as eyaCII/IID homozygous embryos present a strong myoblast fusion defect  , not observed in transheterozygous and probably due to a secondary mutations on the eyaCII/IID chromosome . Col::moeGFP expression under control of a late mesodermal col CRM  was used to visualize the DA3 muscle contours in mutant embryos . The col PMC cells and PCs were visualized in col mutant embryos by LacZ expression under control of the early mesodermal col CRM , colECRM  . For aop , edl , eya , so , and noc , mutant analyses , sample sizes are indicated in the text and the legend of Figure 2—source data 1 . Primary antibodies were: mouse βPS integrin , anti-Col  , anti-GFP  , anti-β-galactosidase  , rabbit anti-Tin  , anti-Nau  , anti-Kr  , anti-β3-tubulin  . For aop , edl and eya-RB , 3 non overlapping 600 nucleotide  probes were pooled together; for noc , a single probe spanning the entire 302 bp intron; for so , a 2771nt probe hydrolyzed to ~600nt fragments  . aop1: CTCATTGTATGCACGGTACG aop1T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggATAGCTGCGGCAGAAGCAGG aop2: GCAACAGCAACACTCCAATC aop2T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggAGACGGTGCGGGCAGAAATTGGG aop3: AAGAGAAAGAGCACGGCAAG aop3T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggAGATCGGCGACGTTCTCCGAGAC edl1: GGGAGGTGGAAATGACAAAC edl1T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggCATCGTCTGCCTGACGTCTG edl2: CCAAATATCGCCGATAAGCC edl2T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggAGACTGCGCACAGGATGCACACC edl3: GAAGATCGACCAGACTTAGG edl3T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggAGAAGCGGCGTCGAGATTCCCAG eyaRB1: GTTCCTCTAGCTCCGAAATG eyaRB1T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggTTACGCCGGAGTTGTGAGGG eyaRB2: GACAGCATCGGAGACAACAC eyaRB2T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggCCCGGCCACAAACGAGAAAC eyaRB3: AGCCCAGTCAAATGCGAAAC eyaRB3T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggATGCGTGTCCGTGTCGCTAC noc1: CGACGGTTAGTATTGACTAAG noc1T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggGGCGTCCATCTGTTATGAATAAAATG so1: TCCACGTTTCCAAGTTGGCTACTC so1T7: ccgaattctaatacgactcactatagggAATGCGGCATGTTCGATGCTCGATAATCGG Confocal sections were acquired on Leica SP5 or SPE microscopes at 40× magnification , 1024/1024 pixel resolution . To compare the size of the Col and Nau expression domains in wt and aop mutants , optimized stacks of double-stained embryos in the same orientation were flattened , and the largest diameter of each domain measured . "
"SLC7A8/SLC3A2 heterodimer is a neutral amino acid exchanger . Here , we demonstrated that SLC7A8 is expressed in the mouse inner ear and that its ablation resulted in ARHL , due to the damage of different cochlear structures . These findings make SLC7A8 transporter a strong candidate for ARHL in humans . Thus , a screening of a cohort of ARHL patients and controls was carried out revealing several variants in SLC7A8 , whose role was further investigated by in vitro functional studies . Significant decreases in SLC7A8 transport activity was detected for patient’s variants  further supporting a causative role for SLC7A8 in ARHL . Moreover , our preliminary data suggest that a relevant proportion of ARHL cases could be explained by SLC7A8 mutations . Age-related hearing loss  or presbycusis is one of the most prevalent chronic medical conditions associated with aging . Indeed , more than 30% of people aged over 65 years suffer ARHL  . Clinically , ARHL is defined as a progressive bilateral sensorineural impairment of hearing in high sound frequencies mainly caused by a mixture of 3 pathological changes: loss of the hair cells of the organ of Corti  , atrophy of the stria vascularis  and degeneration of spiral ganglion neurons  , as well as the central auditory pathway   . ARHL has a complex multifactorial etiology with both genetic and environmental factors contributing  . Although most people lose hearing acuity with age , it has been demonstrated that genetic heritability affects the susceptibility , onset and severity of ARHL  . Unfortunately , the complexity of the pathology coupled with highly variable nature of the environmental factors , which cause cumulative effects , increases the difficulty in identifying the genetic contributors underlying ARHL . Mouse models , including inbred strains , have been essential for the identification of several defined loci that contribute to ARHL  . SLC7A8/SLC3A2 is a Na+‐independent transporter of neutral amino acids that corresponds to system L also known as LAT2   . SLC7A8 is the catalytic subunit of the heterodimer and mediates obligatory exchange with 1:1 stoichiometry of all neutral amino acids , including the small ones  , which are poor substrates for SLC7A5  , another exchanger with system L activity . Functional data indicate that the role of SLC7A8 is to equilibrate the relative concentrations of different amino acids across the plasma membrane instead of mediating their net uptake  . The SLC7A8/SLC3A2 heterodimer is primarily expressed in renal proximal tubule , small intestine , blood-brain barrier and placenta , where it is thought to have a role in the flux of amino acids across cell barriers  . So far , SLC7A8 research has been focused mainly on amino acid renal reabsorption . However , in vitro studies demonstrated that SLC7A8 could have a role in cystine efflux in epithelial cells and the in vivo deletion of Slc7a8 in a mouse model showed a moderate neutral aminoaciduria  , suggesting compensation by other neutral amino acid transporters . Therefore , in order to better understand the physiology of SLC7A8 , we generated null Slc7a8 knockout mice   and  . Here , we describe the detection of a hypoacusic phenotype in the Slc7a8−/− mouse model and demonstrate that novel loss-of-function SLC7A8 mutations constitute a primary cause in the development of ARHL in a cohort of elderly people from two isolated villages in Italy . SLC7A8 is highly expressed in the kidney , intestine and brain , and neither full-length nor truncated SLC7A8 protein were detected in membrane samples of Slc7a8−/− mice  . The Allen Brain Atlas  localizes mouse brain SLC7A8 to the cortical subplate , cerebellum , thalamus and olfactory bulb . Our results showed that SLC7A8 protein was localized to the plasma membrane of neuronal axons in different brain regions such as , the choroid plexus , subfornical organ , cerebral cortex and hypothalamus by immunohistochemistry  . Behavioral screening showed that absence of SLC7A8 in mice does not affect either learning or memory  . In contrast , a significant reduction in latency was observed in the rotarod acceleration test indicating impairment in motor coordination in Slc7a8−/− mice  . Reaffirming poorer motor coordination performance in the Slc7a8−/− mice , an increased exposure to shock on the treadmill was also observed  . Interestingly , a marked impairment was observed in the pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle response , which assesses the response to a high intensity acoustic stimulus  and its inhibition by a weaker pre-pulse . The response to a 120 dB single-pulse was significantly reduced in Slc7a8−/− mice  . The higher threshold required for responding to the acoustic stimulus in the PPI tests in Slc7a8−/− animals could potentially be indicative of a hearing impairment or to a defect in the stress response signaling . As SLC7A8 is expressed in the murine pituitary gland  , plasma corticosterone levels under stressing conditions were analyzed . No differences were observed in corticosterone levels at either basal conditions , nor under restraint stress in the Slc7a8−/− group , indicating a normal stress response in the absence of SLC7A8  . Thus , a hearing impairment in Slc7a8−/− animals was considered the most probable cause of the differences observed in the acoustic startle response test  . The impact of the ablation of SLC7A8 on the auditory system was tested initially on mice with a mixed C57BL6/J‐129Sv genetic background . Auditory brainstem response  recording , which evaluates the functional integrity of the auditory system , was performed in Slc7a8−/− mice . Reinforcing our hypothesis , adult 4- to 6-month-old Slc7a8−/− mice showed significantly higher  ABR thresholds in response to click stimulus , compared with age matched Slc7a8+/− and wild type mice , which maintain normal hearing thresholds  . The hearing loss observed in Slc7a8−/− mice affected the highest frequencies tested   . The analysis of latencies and amplitudes of the ABR waves in response to click stimuli , showed increased latency and decreased amplitude of wave I , but similar II-IV interpeak latency , in the Slc7a8−/− mice when compared with the other genotypes , pointing to a hypoacusis of peripheral origin without affectation of the central auditory pathway  . Mice were grouped according to genotype , age and ABR threshold level and descriptive statistics calculated , showing that the penetrance of the hearing phenotype in the Slc7a8−/− mice is incomplete  . Therefore , mice were classified according to their hearing loss  phenotype , defining normal hearing when ABR thresholds for all frequencies were <45 dB SPL , mild phenotype when at least two thresholds were between 45 and 60 dB SPL and severe hypoacusis when at least two thresholds were >60 dB SPL . At 4–6 months of age , Slc7a8−/− mice showed either severe  or mild  hearing loss , whilst mice from the other genotypic groups did not show hearing loss  . Next we studied 7–13 month-old mice , 50% of Slc7a8−/− mice presented severe hypoacusis and the hearing loss spread to lower frequencies with age . Slc7a8−/− mice with hearing loss showed statistically significant differences in ABR parameters when compared to the other genotypes  . Moreover , 43% of Slc7a8+/− mice developed mild hearing loss at 7–13 months , whereas the age-matched wild-type mice maintained intact hearing indicating a predisposition toward hearing loss in aged Slc7a8+/−mice  . The onset and severity of ARHL is attributed to both environmental and genetic factors  . Indeed , it has been described that several strains of inbred mice present a predisposition to suffer ARHL dependent on multiple genetic factors  . Here , the hearing loss phenotype was confirmed in a second mouse strain , the inbread C57BL6/J genetic background  . Additionally , longitudinal study of Slc7a8−/− mice into the inbred C57BL6/J genetic background showed higher penetrance than the mixed background throughout the ages studied  . The presence of SLC7A8 has previously been reported in the mouse cochlea  , and specifically localized to the stria vascularis by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrophotometry and by Western blotting  . Here , SLC7A8 was detected in wild-type mouse cochlea by immunofluorescence supporting its localization to the spiral ligament and spiral limbus from the basal to the apical regions of the cochlea  . SLC7A8 immunolabeling was not observed in the stria vascularis . We observed an intense expression of SLC7A8 in the spiral ligament surrounding the stria indicating that the SLC7A8 epitope  is either hidden or absent in the stria vascularis . Quantification of SLC7A8 expression in the cochlea showed half a dose of the transporter in the Slc7a8+/−than in wild-type mice , and its ablation in Slc7a8−/− mice  . A closer study of SLC7A8 immunofluorescence showed that the transporter is also expressed in the spiral ganglia neurons area   . The early HL onset and the progressive ARHL phenotype observed in Slc7a8−/− and Slc7a8+/− mice respectively , prompted us to compare the expression of SLC7A8 in wild-type cochlea at different ages  . Immunofluorescence quantification of SLC7A8 intensity at 2- and 12 months of age showed expression in the young mice and increased presence of the transporter in the older mice  . In the same line , Slc7a8 mRNA quantification from cochlea extracts showed a progressive increased expression throughout mouse life  . Most of the structures of the cochlear duct , including spiral ligament , spiral limbus , tectorial and basilar membranes showed a normal gross cytoarchitecture in the Slc7a8−/− mice . In contrast , in the basal turns of the cochlea we observed that 3 out of 6 Slc7a8−/− mice evaluated showed complete loss of hair cells and flat epithelia , while only one Slc7a8−/− mouse showed intact epithelia in the organ of Corti  . Likewise , loss of cells in the spiral ganglia , especially in the basal regions of the cochlea , was observed  . Slc7a8−/− mice at 4 to 7 months of age presented ~50% of cell loss in the spiral ganglion compared with wild type mice  . Concomitantly with the loss of hair cells and spiral ganglion  nuclei in Slc7a8−/− mice , the messenger levels of cell type specific biomarkers , such as the potassium voltage-gated channels Kcnq2 , Kcnq3 and Kcnq5 , and the transporter Slc26a5 , which are expressed in the organ of Corti and SG were down-regulated respectively  . Less densely packed cells in the spiral ligament were observed in Slc7a8−/− than in wild-type mice  . 1 , a potassium channel highly expressed in stria vascularis cells  , was also dramatically reduced by 50% in Slc7a8−/−  . Phalloidin labeling of actin fibers in the basal cells of the stria vascularis was also decreased 50% in the base of the cochlea  . SLC7A8 is abundantly expressed in fibrocytes of the spiral ligament and limbus  , accordingly the number of fibrocytes in the spiral ligament decreased by 2/3 and 1/3 in the null and Slc7a8+/− mice , respectively  . Moreover , mice with severe HL phenotype showed 30% less number of fibrocytes in the spiral ligament  . The expression of the transcription factor Tbx18 , essential for fibrocytes development and differentiation , was 50% less in Slc7a8−/− than in wild-type mouse cochleae  . Once we associated mouse SLC7A8 transporter with deafness and identified it as a potential ARHL gene , screening for mutations in human populations was initiated . Individuals with pure-tone average for high frequencies  greater than or equal to 40 decibels hearing level  were considered ARHL cases , whilst people with PTA-H less than 25 dB were considered as controls . All the mutations found in SLC7A8 cases and controls from isolated villages of Friuli Venezia Giulia exhibited different frequencies in comparison to public data bases , such as ExAC among others  . A structural model of human SLC7A8 protein built using the homologous protein AdiC  in the outward-facing conformation   was used to localize all the mutations identified here . Interestingly , three of the four mutations found in ARHL patients were located in very striking places:  V302 is a conserved amino acid located in the extracellular loop four which corresponds to the external lid that closes the substrate binding site when the transporter is open to the cytosol ,  T402 is located in transmembrane  domain 10 facing to the substrate binding site , and  V460 is located at the very end of TM domain 12 , with potential interaction with the plasma membrane . In vitro functional characterization of variants present in patients with ARHL and controls was performed by measuring amino acid uptake in HeLa cells co-transfected with the heavy subunit CD98hc and Strep tagged-SLC7A8 wild type and variants  . All tested variants showed expression levels comparable to those of wild type , except for V460E that showed only 20% expression of wild -ype protein  , being the only variant that did not reach the plasma membrane as indicated by the lack of co-localization with wheat germ agglutinin staining  . Amino acid transport induced by SLC7A8 was analyzed for wild type and the identified variants  . All variants present in controls  conserved more than 80% of alanine transport compared with wild-type protein . Three variants found in patients with ARHL showed diminished alanine transport activity: T402M and V460E presented little residual transport activity  and R418C showed 50 . Surprisingly , V302I presented similar alanine transport levels to wild type SLC7A8 . Location of residue V302 within EL4 ( within the external substrate lid  led us to additionally measure a larger size SLC7A8 substrate , whose transport could potentially be more compromised than that of a small substrate  . 6% of wild-type SLC7A8 . Other SLC7A8 variants found in patients with ARHL and controls showed similar decreased transport activity for alanine and tyrosine . Thus , the SLC7A8-induced tyrosine transport was clearly defective in the four variants found in patients with ARHL , whereas it was barely affected  in the variants found in controls . The present work provides evidence that the amino acid transporter SLC7A8/SLC3A2 has a direct role in age-related hearing-loss  . The ablation of SLC7A8 in a mouse model causes deafness with ARHL characteristics , defective audition at high-frequencies with early onset in homozygotes and progressive worsening in heterozygotes with age . Identification of rare variants in SLC7A8 gene together with amino acid transport loss-of-function in ARHL patients supports the concept that this gene has a role in the auditory system in association with other genetic and/or environmental factors . This study highlights amino acid transporters as new targets to study in largely uncharacterized hearing disorders . The description of SLC7A8 as a novel gene involved in a complex trait such as ARHL demonstrates the importance of amino acid homeostasis in preserving auditory function and suggests that genetic screening should be extended to consider other amino acid transporters as potential new genes involved in cochlear dysfunction . All protocols used in this study were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at IDIBELL in a facility accredited by the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  . Generation of the null Slc7a8  was done by gene disruption . A coding region that includes exon 1 of the Slc7a8 gene was replaced for a neomycin resistance cassette by homologous recombination using a pBlueScript vector with two homologous arms  and two resistances  in 5’ region of the gene  . Chimera mouse was outcrossed with a wild‐type C57BL6/J mouse to obtain first generation  of Slc7a8 heterozygous  in a mixed C57BL6/J‐129Sv background . Intercross of F1 resulted in the analyzed F2 generation , which contemplates the three genotypes: wild type , Slc7a8+/− and Slc7a8−/− knockout mice . The pure inbred genetic background was generated backcrossing Slc7a8−/− F1 mice in the mixed C57BL6/J‐129Sv strain for 10 generations with pure C57BL6/J wild-type mice alternating male and females to avoid a genetic drift in the X and Y chromosomes . Polyclonal rabbit antibody against mouse SLC7A8 protein was generated using an antigen against the C‐terminal region   . For specific SLC7A8 light subunit detection , samples were run in the presence of 100 mM of dithiothreitol  . The experimental design consisted of two training trials  at the minimum speed  followed of two different tasks:  motor coordination and balance were assessed by measuring the latency to fall off the rod in consecutive trials with increasing fixed rotational speeds  . Pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle response   : Training was 5 min of habituation time to the apparatus with a background noise level of 70 dB and then exposed to six blocks of 7 trial types in pseudo-random order with 15 s . Primary antibody: anti-SLC7A8 1/500 in blocking buffer ON at 4°C with agitation . 1% Triton X-100 and incubated as reported  with the following primary antibodies: anti-SLC7A8  , -s100  , -Kir4 . Using Fiji software , the sum of the intensity of all stacks  from the spiral ligaments + stria vascularis area was extracted . The following probes were used: potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 2  Mm00440080_m1; potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 3  Mm00548884_m1; potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 5  Mm01226041_m1; prestin  Mm00446145_m1; T-box transcription factor TBX18  Mm00470177_m1; interleukin 1 beta  Mm00434228m1; interleukin 6  Mm00446190m1; solute carrier family 7  , member 8  Mm01318971m1 . Subjects underwent a clinical evaluation to exclude any syndromic form of hearing loss or other systemic illnesses linked with sensorineural hearing loss . To avoid non-genetic variations in the hearing phenotype  , the best hearing ear was considered for each individual . Variants belonging to SLC7A8 gene were extracted using bcftools  and annotated with ANNOVAR  . For SLC7A8 we collected several statistics including the probability of loss of function intolerance  , where the closer pLI value is to 1 , the more LoF intolerant the gene could be considered . The QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit  was used to introduce point mutations in SLC7A8 sequence , according to the manufacturer's protocol . 1-StrepTag fused SLC7A8 construct was used as template  . Amino acid substitutions were introduced into SLC7A8 sequence using a compatible reverse primer and forward primers  . To analyze the effect of the mutations on SLC7A8 protein expression and plasma membrane localization , fluorescence microscopy of Strep-tagged wild type and mutant transporters was performed on a semiconfluent monolayer of transfected HeLa cells cultured on glass coverslips . Glass coverslip-grown cells were incubated with 1 mg/ml wheat germ agglutinin  labeled with Texas-Red  at 37°C for 10 min , rinsed three times with phosphate-buffered saline-Ca2+-Mg2+ and fixed for 15 min in 4% paraformaldehyde . Secondary goat-anti-mouse-FITC antibody  was incubated for 2 hr protected from light and rinsed three times with phosphate-buffered saline . To quantify SLC7A8 wild type and mutated transporters expression levels in cells , a single in-focus plane was acquired . Behavior and ABR experiments using mice were not performed blind to genotype and treatment conditions , but as data acquisition was automated this will not affect data processing and analysis . "
"The first S-adenosyl methionine  degrading enzyme  was discovered in bacteriophage T3 , as a counter-defense against the bacterial restriction-modification system , and annotated as a SAM hydrolase forming 5’-methyl-thioadenosine  and L-homoserine . Here , we present the very first phage SAMase structures , in complex with a substrate analogue and the product MTA . Quantum-mechanical calculations , thin-layer chromatography , and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy demonstrate that this family of enzymes are not hydrolases but lyases forming MTA and L-homoserine lactone in a unimolecular reaction mechanism . The degradation products were , using paper chromatography and chemical tests , identified as 5’-methyl-thioadenosine  and L-homoserine  , which led to the claimed discovery of a potent T3-encoded SAM hydrolase enzyme  . Subsequent work showed that the T3 SAMase was produced early in infection  , encoded in the early transcribed portion of the phage genome  and important for the counter defense of the bacteriophage against the type I restriction modification  system of the host bacterium . In this type of RM system , SAM is essential for both methylation of host DNA and restriction of target sequences in the foreign DNA . First , the lowered SAM levels prevented methylation of the host genome and the SAM-dependent restriction of the phage genome  . Second , inhibition was observed to be independent of SAM degradation and possibly linked to an interaction with the restriction enzyme  . Recently , three additional SAM degrading enzymes were identified in a screen for bacteriophage DNA that could rescue an auxotrophic E . Investigations using proteomics and RNA-seq showed that the phage-encoded polypeptides induced up-regulation of the biosynthetic pathway for methionine by degradation of SAM  , which together with the repressor protein MetJ acts as a co-repressor of the met regulon  . One of the newly identified SAM degrading enzymes , Svi3-3 , was cloned , expressed , and purified . In vitro activity assays demonstrated that Svi3-3 catalyzed conversion of SAM to MTA . We herein present the first structure of a phage-encoded SAMase and explore the reaction mechanism using both computational and experimental biochemistry . The Svi3-3 enzyme was originally expressed from a library of fragmented environmental phage DNA . For this reason , the exact size of the original open reading frame was unknown , but an N-terminally hexahistidine-tagged 162 amino acid construct including some vector-derived sequence was shown to have SAMase activity  . Full-length and N-terminally truncated variants of Svi3-3 were expressed with an N-terminal hexahistidine tag and purified on a Ni-column for structural studies . An N-terminally truncated 146 amino acid construct of Svi3-3 , where the hexahistidine tag had been removed  , formed crystals in the presence of SAM or the analogue S-adenosyl homocysteine  . Svi3-3 forms a trimer of ferredoxin-like fold alpha–beta sandwiches , where each subunit has two helices on the outside and a five-stranded anti-parallel beta sheet at the center  . The homoserine moiety forms interactions with backbone groups and the side chains of Glu69 and Gln104 . In the structure from co-crystallization with SAM , catalysis has occurred and the product MTA is observed in identical position as the corresponding part of SAH , with the methyl group pointing away from Glu69  , while a proline molecule from the cryo buffer is bound in the second half of the active site , mimicking the second product . To test if the structure contains all the elements needed for activity in vivo , and because the start and end of the native phage protein sequence remain unknown , constructs truncated to only contain the ordered parts were tested for their ability to rescue the ilvA knockout mutant . Indeed , the N-terminally truncated construct additionally lacking the disordered C terminus provided similar rescue to full-length Svi3-3 , indicating that neither tail is needed for SAMase activity  . Based on this result , all further experiments were performed with the 146 amino acid Svi3-3_d19 construct  . The structure of Svi3-3 in apo state is overall very similar to the complex structures  , but there is a shift of the N terminus , a conformational change of residues 7–9 to form a more extensive interaction with β9 and the preceding loop of the neighboring subunit , leading to a slight loosening of the trimer  . Small angle X-ray scattering  data confirmed that Svi3-3 has a similar trimeric structure in apo state as in the presence of SAM  , indicating that product release and substrate binding do not require trimer dissociation . A search for structures with similar fold and connectivity as Svi3-3 using PDBeFold  showed that bacterial PII signaling proteins and cation tolerance proteins of CutA type  in the GlnB-like superfamily have similar trimeric architectures of ferredoxin-like folds . Intriguingly , the position of ATP is similar to where SAH binds to Svi3-3 , although the binding site appears non-conserved . The reaction mechanism of the presumed SAM hydrolases  is previously unexplored . Two possibilities would either be that the enzyme provides a catalytic base that by deprotonation activates a water molecule for nucleophilic attack on the γ carbon of SAM , or that a catalytic residue from the enzyme acts as nucleophile and attacks the γ carbon , forming a covalent intermediate with the substrate that subsequently gets hydrolyzed by reaction with a water molecule . To test these possibilities , Svi3-3 mutants Y58F , E69Q , E69A , and E105Q were constructed , expressed , and purified for in vitro activity assays . The activity of wild-type  and mutant Svi3-3 variants in conversion of SAM to MTA was determined at 1 mM substrate concentration . The WT truncated Svi3-3 construct showed an average turnover of 9 . To characterize the binding of substrate and product to Svi3-3 , thermal unfolding experiments were performed using differential scanning fluorimetry   . In the presence of the substrate SAM , its analogue SAH , or the reaction product MTA , the melting temperature of the WT enzyme increased by up to 30°C , demonstrating a major stabilizing effect on the structure  . Under the assay conditions , the substrate is most likely turned over , and as a result , the sample with SAM is stabilized by binding of MTA . The DSF assay clearly demonstrates that the E69Q mutant is not impaired in binding of SAM or MTA , but that binding of SAH is abolished  . However , despite extensive trials , a structure of Svi3-3 E69Q with SAM could not be obtained . A crystal structure of Svi3-3 E69Q with MTA shows no major conformational changes of the enzyme , but a minor shift of the mutated side chain close to the reaction site  . A structure-guided multiple sequence alignment of Svi3-3 with T3 SAMase and two other polypeptides annotated with SAMase activity  but with barely detectable sequence similarity suggests that a similar core fold can be formed by all aligned enzymes  . Based on the SAH structure , all the conserved residues are important for binding of SAM . Gly56 packs against the ribose , not allowing space for a side chain , Glu69 and Gln104 as described above form hydrogen bonds to the ligand , and Tyr58 packs against the γ carbon and forms a hydrogen bond to Glu105 , enclosing the ligand . The Svi3-3 structure allows interpretation of the effect of loss-of-function mutations identified in the previous complementation studies  . To validate the structure-guided sequence alignment , Glu68 in T3 SAMase , predicted by the sequence alignment  to be the equivalent of Glu69 in Svi3-3 , was mutagenized and tested for in vitro activity . No rescue was observed either for the Svi3-3 E69Q , Svi3-3 E69A , Orf1 E50Q , or the T3 SAMase E68Q mutants , suggesting a lost or reduced activity of these variants  and validating the sequence alignment . Given that we observed measurable activity for the T3 SAMase E68Q mutant in vitro , we decided to insert different variants of the T3 SAMase on the chromosome , to allow titration of the expression levels . To gain further insights into substrate binding to Svi3-3 , molecular dynamics  simulations were performed . An initial complex of Svi3-3 with SAM was generated from docking calculations , which indicated a slight binding preference for SAM over SAH . A total of 100 ns of MD simulation was run for both apo Svi3-3 and the SAM complex  . The simulation of the complex revealed that the SAM conformation in the active site is very stable , particularly the methionine part  . In agreement with the experimental structure with SAH , the carboxylate group is strongly stabilized by the backbone amide hydrogens of Glu105 and Ser106 , whereas the amino group is primarily stabilized by the side-chains of Glu69 and Gln104  . The adenosine part of SAM is primarily stabilized by H-bond interactions with the side-chain of Ser50 and the backbone of Val57 and Ile77  , as in the crystal structures with SAH and MTA  . Comparison of the average root mean square fluctuation  of the protein backbone shows that Svi3-3 is more flexible throughout the 100 ns MD simulation in apo state  than with SAM in the active site   . Thus , 100 ns of MD simulation demonstrated that apo Svi3-3 shows the highest flexibility in the regions surrounding the active site , and that these regions become significantly more rigid upon substrate binding . Thus , the observed active site conformations from the MD simulations were used to build a 194-atom cluster model  to investigate the SAMase reaction mechanism with density functional theory  . Glu69 was initially suspected to either work as a catalytic base , activating a water molecule for hydrolysis , or as a nucleophile , attacking the γ-carbon of SAM . Moreover , the observed SAM configuration relative to Glu69 was not optimal for attack on the γ-carbon of SAM . Thus , it seems that the main role of Glu69 is to bind and orient the substrate in the active site by accepting H-bonds primarily from the amino group of SAM , but also from the 3’-hydroxyl group of the ribose ring  . Further DFT geometry optimization , however , revealed a completely different mechanism , a unimolecular reaction resulting in the formation of homoserine lactone  . Deprotonation of Tyr58 enhances its cation-π interaction with the S atom of SAM and the electrostatic preorganization weakens the bond to the ribose ring . Together with the amino group interaction with Glu69 this makes the configuration of SAM in the active site of Svi3-3 susceptible to intramolecular carboxylate oxygen attack on the γ-carbon . However , since our active site cluster model by necessity is limited in size , it seems possible that the predicted net proton transfer from Tyr58 to Glu105 could be caused by the DFT optimization disfavoring ion pairs with charge separation over a larger distance  , and instead moving the proton from Tyr58 to Glu105  . In the product state  , Glu69 shares a proton with the amino group of SAM , and a water molecule makes strong hydrogen bonds with Tyr58 and Glu105 , irrespective of protonation state at the start of the reaction . This water appeared to be a good candidate for nucleophilic attack on the carbonyl carbon of homoserine lactone , thereby forming a tetrahedral intermediate which could break down to homoserine . Thus , the DFT calculations indicate that Svi3-3 forms homoserine lactone , but that further breakdown to homoserine does not occur in the active site . Most importantly , the DFT calculations clearly predict that Svi3-3 is not a SAM hydrolase , but rather a SAM lyase , catalyzing the unimolecular transformation of SAM to homoserine lactone , whereafter this product is released from the active site . One prediction from the suggested reaction mechanism is that the carboxyl group of SAM is essential for the degradation of SAM by Svi3-3 . To test this hypothesis , decarboxylated SAM  was produced enzymatically from SAM using SAM decarboxylase  and used as a substrate in the MTA formation assay . In support of the proposed mechanism , we observed no Svi3-3-catalyzed production of MTA from dcSAM  . However , in a DSF binding assay , dcSAM does not induce a thermal stabilization of Svi3-3  . Comparison with the strong stabilization by SAM/MTA and SAH  suggests that the carboxyl group of SAM is required for binding to Svi3-3 . Our activity assay  is based on detection of MTA that is also observed in the structure from co-crystallization of Svi3-3 with SAM . In order to test the predictions from the DFT calculations , we used thin-layer chromatography  , commonly used for separation of amino acids , to determine whether homoserine was formed . The substrate SAM and the products could be separated by TLC , the adenosyl-containing compounds were visualized under UV light , and the amines were stained with ninhydrin after pre-treatment with β-mercapto ethanol  . Interestingly , we observed a reaction product with mobility and color upon staining distinct from homoserine , proving that Svi3-3 is not a SAM hydrolase . The same assay was performed with T3 SAMase and Orf1 and comparison with reference samples shows that for all three enzymes , a reaction product is observed that on TLC migrates and stains similar to homoserine lactone  , supporting the hypothesis that Svi3-3 , T3 SAMase and Orf1 are indeed SAM lyases . To confirm the identity of the reaction product , the enzymatic reaction products for Svi3-3 were examined with 1H nuclear magnetic resonance  and the spectrum compared to reference spectra for SAM , homoserine , and homoserine lactone  . The results confirm that homoserine lactone is formed on the same time scale as MTA . Svi3-3 represents the first structure of a phage-encoded SAM degrading enzyme . A distinct type of SAM lyase , 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase  exists in higher plants and some fungi . The reaction is PLP-dependent and the enzyme is structurally and mechanistically unrelated to the phage encoded SAM lyases  . Instead , Svi3-3 shows structural similarity to PII and PII-like proteins , many of which bind nucleotides or nucleotide-derived metabolites in the inter-subunit clefts . Based on this similarity , we tested binding of ATP , ADP , and AMP to Svi3-3 by DSF , but detected no interaction . Svi3-3 forms a trimer in solution both in the absence and in the presence of substrate  . Thermal shift binding experiments showed a major stabilization of Svi3-3 upon binding of MTA or SAH  . Results presented here show that E69 in Svi3-3 plays a critical role in the enzyme , and the failure in getting crystals of an E69Q mutant with SAM suggests that binding of SAM may be associated with conformational changes that are incompatible with crystal packing or with the crystallization conditions . The observation that the E69Q mutant binds SAM but does not bind SAH indicates that although SAH only lacks one methyl group compared to SAM , the complex structure of WT Svi3-3 with SAH may not fully mimic the substrate-bound state . Since MTA and SAH show a perfect overlap between the two structures  , any such difference in binding mode between SAM and SAH is likely to involve the methionine end of the substrate , where MD indicates that Tyr58 forms a cation-π interaction with the positively charged sulfur . The reason why the E69Q mutant does not bind to SAH may be that two important interactions are lacking; Q69 cannot accept two hydrogen bonds  and there is no positive charge on the sulfur that can participate in the cation-π interaction with Tyr58  . Prompted by DFT calculations producing high energy barriers for a hydrolysis reaction within the active site of Svi3-3  , the TLC assays and NMR show unambiguously that Svi3-3 is a SAM lyase forming homoserine lactone and MTA  . Previous attempts to set up a coupled SAM hydrolase activity assay for Svi3-3 using homoserine dehydrogenase or homoserine kinase failed to show homoserine production with the same rate as MTA production  . The observed rates were 1000-fold lower , and we can now explain that this is due to the slow and un-catalyzed formation of homoserine from the homoserine lactone that is enzymatically formed . Computational work by others suggests that the non-enzymatic degradation of SAM to homoserine lactone and MTA is slowed down by the favorable interactions of the carboxylate group with water  . Thus , Svi3-3 increases the reactivity of the carboxylate group by excluding water from the corresponding part of the active site , while stabilizing a reactive conformation of the substrate . Both hydrogen bond acceptors of Glu69 seem critical for stabilization of the reactive state  , and Svi3-3 E69Q has nearly abolished activity . Since the level of sequence identity between the two enzymes is low , there will be many differences in the active site , and additional interactions may contribute to stabilizing the reactive state for the same mechanism in T3 SAMase . Anti-restriction activity of the closely related T7 phage is based on the OCR protein that forms a structure that mimics B-form DNA and blocks DNA binding of EcoKI and other type I RM systems  . The first structure from the SAM lyase enzyme family that we present here clearly proves that they have no structural similarity to the OCR protein . Instead , our data shows that also the T3 SAMase is a lyase and not a hydrolase , but future studies are needed to elucidate whether these enzymes also have additional mechanisms of anti-restriction activity  . Around the same time as the SAM-degrading enzyme from bacteriophage T3 was discovered , the same enzymatic activity was also found in extract from bacteria  and yeast  . In both of these systems , the reaction products were described as MTA and γ-aminobutyro-lactone  , and the conversion to homoserine was considered to be spontaneous . In contrast , the phage enzyme from T3 was early described as a SAM hydrolase , and referred to as such until this day . In the early literature , homoserine lactone was identified as an intermediate  but , perhaps due to the available methods at the time , it was not realized that homoserine was formed on a different time-scale from MTA , indicating a spontaneous and not enzyme-catalyzed reaction . The SAM lyases show very low sequence conservation and large variations in size  , and future studies will elucidate the relationship between structure and activity in this family of enzymes , their prevalence , and their exact biological roles in different organisms . For expression of an N-terminally truncated construct of Svi3-3 , the svi3-3 gene was PCR amplified using Pfu DNA polymerase with primers Svi3-3_d19f and Svi3-3_r1 and cloned into the pEXP5-NT/TOPO vector  according to the manufacturer's protocol . The correctness of plasmid pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19 was confirmed by sequencing  . The resulting plasmid encoded amino acid 20–162 of the original His-tagged Svi3-3 polypeptide  fused to an N-terminal hexahistidine tag followed by a TEV cleavage site . Svi3-3-d19 mutants Y58F , E69Q , E69A , and E105Q were generated by site-directed mutagenesis of pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19 using the QuickChange II protocol  using the primers listed in Supplementary file 1-table 3 . Mutations in the plasmids pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19_Y58F , pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19_E69Q , pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19_E69A , and pEXP5-Svi3-3_d19_E105Q were confirmed by DNA sequencing . WT Svi3-3_d19 , E69Q , E69A , and E105Q mutants eluted as trimers , while the Y58F mutant eluted mainly as monomer . Crystals grew in 2–10 days in drops containing 1 μl Svi3-3_d19  and 1 μl of reservoir solution containing 0 . The Svi3-3_d19 structure with SAM was solved with ab initio methods using Arcimboldo_lite  run on the National Supercomputer Center  in Linköping and a 15 amino acid helix as search model  . SEC-SAXS data for Svi3-3_d19 samples were collected at the Diamond Light Source on beamline B21 . His6-tagged Svi3-3_d19 samples at 10–13 mg/ml concentration with and without 5 mM SAM were loaded onto the size exclusion chromatography  column previously equilibrated in 25 mM Tris-HCl pH 8 . The activity of WT and mutant versions of the N-terminally truncated Svi3-3 construct was determined according to the previously published discontinuous assay  , by separation of SAM and MTA using cation exchange chromatography . Each 25 µl reaction consisted of 20 µM WT or mutant Svi3-3 in 25 mM HEPES  , 150 mM NaCl , 0 . 2 µl 50× SYPRO orange dye and 0–2500 µM of SAM or SAH or 0–600 µM dcSAM mix . The different gene variants encoding the WT and mutant T3 SAMase were inserted on the chromosome of an ΔilvA auxotrophic mutant of E . Native T3 SAMase and variants with mutations at E67Q and E68Q were PCR amplified using specific primers that contained homologies surrounding the araBAD operon at the 5’ end followed by sequences that allowed amplification of the T3 SAMase variants from the respective plasmids  . Two different approaches were used to determine if the different variants of Svi3-3 , Orf1 , and T3 SAMase could complement the ΔilvA auxotrophic mutant . Svi-3–3 and Orf1 were both cloned on a high copy number plasmid pCA24N –gfp , while T3 SAM hydrolase was cloned on an intermediate copy number plasmid pRD2 . E69A and E69Q variants were constructed for full-length Svi3-3 and Svi3-3_d19 to test for their ability to rescue the ΔilvA mutant  . MD simulations of the Svi3-3 trimer with and without SAM in the active sites were performed with Desmond  using the OPLS3 force field  . The Svi3-3 crystal structure in complex with SAH was used as starting conformation for the simulations where missing hydrogens were automatically added using the protein preparation wizard tool in Maestro  . The native substrate SAM was docked to the active site using Glide  . The docking grid was generated with the OPLS3 force field centered on the SAH inhibitor bound to the active site of the Svi3-3 crystal structure . The Maestro system builder  was used to solvate the Svi3-3 trimer with TIP3P  water molecules in an orthorhombic box with buffer distances of 10 Å to the boundary on all sides . A total of 100 ns MD simulation at 298 K was run in the NPT ensemble using the reference system propagator algorithm  time stepping scheme  with time steps of 2 fs for bonded terms , 2 fs for van der Waals and short-range electrostatic interactions , and 6 fs for long-range electrostatic interactions . The catalytic mechanism of Svi3-3 was investigated with DFT calculations . A cluster model  was generated from a snapshot of the equilibrated Svi3-3 X-ray structure taken from the MD simulation described above  . The active site model was composed of the backbone atoms of Val17 , Gly18 , Leu19 , Asn20 , and Val21 chopped at the N and C termini , Tyr58 and Glu69 chopped at the CA position , and Gln104 , Glu105 , and Ser106  chopped at the N and C-termini . A smaller substrate mimicking SAM was used for the DFT calculations . However , as noted above , ion-pair configurations with charge separation over a large distance may be disfavored , and we thus also recalculated the reaction energetics with the system constrained to the standard protonation state of Tyr58 and Glu105 , which was also the initial configuration for the optimization . coli K-12 MG1655 pCA24N:speD from the ASKA library  encoding the hexahistidine tagged SAM decarboxylase  enzyme were inoculated in LB containing 34 µg/ml chloramphenicol . 5 or 2 mM SAM was incubated with 20 µM SDC for 2 hr at 37°C in reaction buffer  . The flow-through was collected and the concentration dcSAM + SAM + MTA was determined by the absorbance at 260 nm to 0 . 1 µM Svi3-3 in reaction buffer at 37°C . As a control , dcSAM without Svi3-3 was incubated for the same time . 1 µM Svi3-3 and as a control only SAM  was incubated for the same period of time . For TLC experiments , reactions containing 2 mM SAM and 0 . 20 μM Svi3-3 , 0 . To analyze the reaction products by NMR spectroscopy , a 700 μl reaction mixture was prepared containing 4 mM SAM and 500 nM Svi3-3 d19 in 100 mM Na phosphate buffer pH 7 . The formation of homoserine lactone in the enzymatic reaction was confirmed by comparison with the 1H NMR spectrum of an authentic sample  dissolved in the same buffer , and by comparison with literature data  . The spectra indicated a gradual hydrolysis of the lactone to homoserine that was identified by comparison with literature 1H NMR data  and an authentic homoserine sample  . "
"For example , primate TRIM5α uses its rapidly evolving ‘v1’ loop to bind retroviral capsids , and single mutations in this loop can dramatically improve retroviral restriction . Using deep mutational scanning , we comprehensively measured how single mutations in the TRIM5α v1 loop affect restriction of divergent retroviruses . Our results indicate that TRIM5α’s adaptive landscape is remarkably broad and mutationally resilient , maximizing its chances of success in evolutionary arms races with retroviruses . Mammalian genomes combat the persistent threat of viruses by encoding a battery of cell-intrinsic antiviral proteins , termed restriction factors , that recognize and inhibit viral replication within host cells . In turn , viral escape spurs adaptation of restriction factors , by selecting for variants that re-establish viral recognition and thereby restriction  . Numerous restriction factors , including TRIM5α  , APOBEC3G  , and MxA  , evolve rapidly as a result of arms races with target viruses . Such barriers led to the initial identification of TRIM5α , during a screen for proteins that prevented HIV-1  from efficiently replicating in rhesus macaque cells  . Rhesus TRIM5α could potently restrict HIV-1 , whereas the virus almost completely escapes TRIM5α-mediated inhibition in its human host . Subsequent studies revealed that restriction of SIVs  also varies across TRIM5α orthologs and that SIVs likely drove the rapid evolution of TRIM5α in Old World monkeys  . Single amino acid mutations at these rapidly evolving sites can cause dramatic gains of restriction against HIV-1 and other retroviruses  . However , it remains unclear whether such adaptive mutations are rare among all single mutational steps that might be randomly sampled during TRIM5α’s natural evolution . In contrast , TRIM5α and other restriction factors can dramatically change antiviral potency via single mutations at viral interaction interfaces  . Here , we investigated the adaptive landscape of antiviral specificity conferred by the rapidly evolving , capsid-binding v1 loop of TRIM5α . To our surprise , we found that , rather than the evolutionary landscape of TRIM5α being narrowly constrained among all possible amino acid substitutions , the majority of random mutations in the v1 loop resulted in gains of antiviral restriction . We found that the primary v1 loop determinant for TRIM5α’s restriction of HIV-1 and other lentiviruses is its net electrostatic charge . Furthermore , both rhesus and human TRIM5α proteins are highly resilient to mutation , in that they withstand more than half of all possible single amino acid mutations in the v1 loop without compromising their antiviral restriction abilities . This unexpectedly permissive landscape allows TRIM5α to sample a wide variety of mutations to maximize its chances of success in arms races with retroviruses . Despite their rapid evolution , primate TRIM5α orthologs have sampled relatively limited amino acid diversity at rapidly evolving positions within the capsid-binding v1 loop  . For example , although single amino acid changes at residue 332 are responsible for dramatic differences in antiviral restriction  , this residue repeatedly toggles between just three amino acids . The limited diversity is not due to evolutionary inaccessibility , since most amino acids that can be sampled with single nucleotide changes are not observed among primate TRIM5α orthologs  . First , it might suggest that adaptive gain-of-function mutations in TRIM5α are rare , with TRIM5α’s evolutionary landscape mainly consisting of fitness valleys with only a few mutational avenues to reach fitness peaks  . We sought to differentiate between these possibilities by experimentally defining the evolutionary landscape of antiviral restriction over all possible single mutational steps in the v1 loop of both human and rhesus TRIM5α . We took a deep mutational scanning  approach  to measure the effect on antiviral restriction of all v1 loop single mutations in a pooled assay . We first generated a library of all single amino acid variants  within the rapidly evolving portion of the v1 loop  , with a library diversity of 231 amino acid  variants  . The resulting TRIM5α variants were stably expressed via transduction into CRFK  cells , which naturally lack TRIM5α  . We transduced CRFK cells at a low dose to limit the integration of multiple variants into individual cells , thus generating a pool of cells each expressing a single TRIM5α point mutant . Human TRIM5α only weakly restricts HIV-1  . To comprehensively assess how many single mutation variants of human TRIM5α had increased activity against HIV-1 , we first performed a gain-of-function screen . We challenged the library of human TRIM5α variant-expressing cells with HIV-1 bearing a GFP reporter , at a dose infecting 98% of cells  . Because GFP expression becomes detectable only after integration of the HIV-1 proviral genome , cells expressing TRIM5α variants that restrict HIV-1 infection remain GFP-negative . Therefore , to enrich for cells expressing bona fide restrictive TRIM5α variants , we sorted the GFP-negative cells from the first round of infection and subjected them to a second round of HIV-1-GFP infection and sorting . Following this second round of selection , we deep sequenced the TRIM5α variants in the GFP-negative cell population . We normalized the count of each variant to its representation in the pre-selection cell population to determine its enrichment score , which should reflect the relative antiviral function of each TRIM5α variant . Despite the weak  restriction of HIV-1 by wildtype  human TRIM5α , variants containing synonymous nucleotide changes  had significantly higher enrichment scores than those containing stop codons  , confirming that the assay worked as expected . To investigate whether enrichment scores were truly representative of increased antiviral function , and to validate some of the novel amino acid changes that appeared to result in increased restriction , we made 16 targeted missense mutants from across the enrichment spectrum and challenged them individually with HIV-1-GFP . We determined their fold-restriction by determining the relative viral dose required to infect 10% of cells  expressing a TRIM5α variant compared to an empty vector control; a larger viral dose is required to overcome TRIM5α-mediated restriction  . Moreover , we identified novel amino acid mutations that significantly increased antiviral activity , such as R335A and G333D , whereas moderately enriched variants  had correspondingly modest gains in HIV-1 restriction . Thus , enrichment scores accurately reflect antiviral activity , validating our approach to simultaneously identify all single mutants with increased HIV-1 restriction . Therefore , in subsequent analyses , we use enrichment scores as a proxy for the antiviral restriction activity of TRIM5α mutants . Based on the limited amino acid diversity among primate TRIM5α v1 loops  , we expected that our DMS assay would reveal only a few beneficial mutations that improve human TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 . Contrary to this expectation , we found that more than half of all missense variants  had enrichment scores that fell more than two standard deviations above WT TRIM5α  . Even if we limited our analysis to amino acid variants that are evolutionarily accessible via single-nucleotide changes from the WT TRIM5α sequence , this ratio did not change substantially  . These enrichment scores represent dramatic gains in HIV-1 restriction , with the most potent variants  improving HIV-1 restriction ~15 fold relative to WT  . Our findings indicate that the fitness landscape of the v1 loop is not narrowly constrained , but rather is remarkably permissive  , in that most single amino acid changes not seen in natural sequences enhance the ability of human TRIM5α to restrict HIV-1 . Thus , TRIM5α has the capacity to readily evolve antiviral potency against HIV-1 via single mutations . We found that increased expression levels could explain some of the improvement in HIV-1 restriction , although several mutations  improved restriction without increasing expression  . In contrast , most gains in HIV-1 restriction could be completely accounted for by a reduction in the electrostatic charge of the v1 loop  , regardless of expression level . Indeed , reducing the electrostatic charge always improved HIV-1 restriction , but did not always increase TRIM5α expression level  . Among all variants tested , mutation of the positively-charged residues 332 or 335 from the WT arginine  to any amino acid except lysine  significantly improved HIV-1 restriction  , consistent with previous reports on R332 variants  . Mutation of uncharged sites to K or R decreased TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 , whereas introducing a negatively charged aspartic acid  or glutamic acid  significantly increased HIV-1 restriction  . Therefore , we infer that the position-independent benefit of introducing D or E derives from offsetting pre-existing positive charge in the v1 loop that is detrimental to HIV-1 restriction . Thus , we conclude that positive charge in the v1 loop is the dominant impediment to HIV-1 restriction by human TRIM5α . For example , despite its strict conservation in primate TRIM5α  , a glycine  at residue 333 compromises HIV-1 restriction . Contrary to our initial expectations , there is only a weak association between rapidly evolving residues and residues whose mutation can significantly improve HIV-1 restriction: missense mutations in three of six rapidly evolving sites , versus one of five conserved sites , significantly improve HIV-1 restriction  . We also tested whether beneficial mutations might have additive effects on HIV-1 restriction by human TRIM5α . Instead , combination of one gain-of-function variant  with R332P resulted in loss of protein expression and HIV-1 restriction . Given that R332P is one of the strongest gain-of-function variants we identified , it remains possible that other , more modest gain-of-function variants might additively improve HIV-1 restriction . Nevertheless , these results suggest that single gain-of-function mutations , such as R332P , can confer most or all the increased HIV-1 restriction potential onto human TRIM5α . Thus , remarkably , human TRIM5α appears to be located only one mutational step away from fitness peaks in its evolutionary landscape of potential adaptation against HIV-1 . Finally , we investigated whether gain-of-function mutations for HIV-1 restriction also conferred protection against other lentiviruses . We focused on lentiviruses whose restriction is v1 loop-dependent: either the entire v1 loop  or the R332P mutation from rhesus TRIM5α  could confer human TRIM5α with substantial antiviral function . However , the charge-altering mutations R332P and R335A increased restriction of all lentiviruses we tested , including HIV-2 , SIVcpz  , and SIVmac  . Introduction of negative charge  also selectively improved restriction of HIV-1 , SIVcpz , and HIV-2 but not SIVmac . Furthermore , although TRIM5α fitness landscapes are lentivirus-specific , many of the mutations we tested increased restriction against other lentiviruses . These data suggest that the evolutionary landscape for lentiviral restriction by TRIM5α is likely to be generally permissive , as it is for HIV-1 . Our data show that novel antiviral potency is readily attainable by single amino acid changes in human TRIM5α  . However , these gains might be just as easily lost through further mutation , since rapidly evolving antiviral proteins like TRIM5α continually adapt in their arms race with viruses . Therefore , in order to test whether newly acquired antiviral potency is fragile or resistant to mutation , we investigated the mutational resilience of the R332P variant of human TRIM5α , which inhibits HIV-1 ~15 fold more than WT  . We challenged this pooled cell library with HIV-1-GFP , at a viral titer which human TRIM5α-R332P restricts to ~1% infection . In this case , we sorted and deep sequenced GFP-positive cells , so that enrichment  now reflects the degree to which each TRIM5α-R332P variant lost its antiviral function against HIV-1  . Addition of positive charge by mutations to K or R at most positions in the v1 loop reduced HIV-1 restriction  . This preference against positive charge mirrors that of WT human TRIM5α , for which removal of positive charge increased HIV-1 restriction  . However , we found no other consistent biochemical constraints for HIV-1 restriction by TRIM5α-R332P  . Indeed , we found that the majority of missense variants  did not weaken HIV-1 restriction by the R332P variant of human TRIM5α  . Thus , WT human TRIM5α is only one mutational step away from a fitness peak  that , once achieved , also exhibits a surprising degree of resilience to mutation . This implies that gains of restriction by TRIM5α are not likely to be compromised by its continued adaptation . To determine if HIV-1 restriction is also resilient to mutation in a naturally occurring TRIM5α variant , we next assessed the likelihood that random mutations disrupt viral restriction by WT rhesus macaque TRIM5α , which strongly restricts HIV-1 in a manner that strictly requires the v1 loop  . Like with human TRIM5α , we constructed a library of cells each expressing a single rhesus TRIM5α variant , with each variant containing a single mutation in the v1 loop  . Rhesus TRIM5α variants containing premature stop codons were strongly enriched in the non-restrictor pool , whereas WT variants were significantly depleted  . We tested seven variants enriched for loss-of-restriction  and found that six lost HIV-1 restriction . All the rhesus TRIM5α variants we report here represent novel loss-of-function mutations . For example , the F340D , P341I , and P341G variants were all expressed at WT levels but lost HIV-1 restriction . We also re-tested ten rhesus TRIM5α variants not significantly enriched for loss-of-restriction  . Two variants  enriched one standard deviation above WT correspondingly retained only partial HIV-1 restriction relative to WT rhesus TRIM5α . Based on this validation , we conclude that roughly half of all v1 loop single point mutations do not significantly reduce HIV-1 restriction by rhesus TRIM5α . Thus , a natural rhesus TRIM5α antiviral variant , much like the human TRIM5α-R332P variant , displays considerable mutational resilience . Collectively , these results indicate that rhesus TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 is highly robust to changes within the critical v1 loop at both rapidly evolving and conserved sites . The biochemical preferences for HIV-1 restriction are similar but not identical between rhesus and human TRIM5α . In contrast , the introduction of bulky hydrophobic residues , including leucine  , phenylalanine  , and tryptophan  , significantly impaired HIV-1 restriction by rhesus TRIM5α but did not affect the potency of human TRIM5α . These data suggest that both universal as well as lineage-specific requirements for the v1 loop shape TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 . Our findings with TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 suggest that single mutations can readily achieve gain-of-function . Our DMS analyses of human TRIM5α revealed unexpected ease of gaining antiviral potency against HIV-1 and potentially other lentiviruses . To explore this possibility , we investigated the mutational resilience of N-tropic murine leukemia virus  restriction by TRIM5α . N-MLV is strongly inhibited by both rhesus and human TRIM5α , and this activity is at least partly dependent on the v1 loop  . We infected cells expressing either the rhesus  or WT human TRIM5α  v1 DMS libraries with GFP-marked N-MLV , sorted GFP-positive cells , and sequenced the non-restrictor variants . Similar to HIV-1 restriction , we found that most missense mutations  in rhesus TRIM5α were tolerated for N-MLV restriction  . However , some missense mutations dramatically reduced N-MLV restriction , affirming that the v1 loop is indeed critical for inhibition of N-MLV  . However , N-MLV restriction is insensitive to the introduction of positively charged residues , which disrupt HIV-1 inhibition  . These results indicate that the evolutionary landscape for rhesus TRIM5α against N-MLV is distinct from that of HIV-1 . Human TRIM5α restriction of N-MLV was even more resilient to mutation than rhesus TRIM5α . This extreme mutational resilience may reflect the massive potency  of human TRIM5α against N-MLV , and/or a decreased reliance on the v1 loop for N-MLV recognition by human TRIM5α  . We validated several human TRIM5α mutants as retaining nearly WT levels of N-MLV restriction  . Thus , both rhesus and human TRIM5α inhibition of N-MLV is highly resistant to mutations , allowing mutational flexibility without loss of pre-existing antiviral restriction . These results , in conjunction with the substitution tolerance of HIV-1 restriction by human R332P and WT rhesus TRIM5α , indicate that mutational resilience is a general property of TRIM5α’s rapidly evolving v1 loop . Here , using deep-mutational scanning approaches combined with viral infection assays , we investigated the evolutionary landscape of adaptation of the most rapidly evolving segment , the disordered v1 loop , of the retroviral restriction factor TRIM5α . First , human TRIM5α readily gains significant HIV-1 restriction: roughly half of all single missense mutations allow human TRIM5α to better restrict HIV-1  . Based on our results , we infer that positive charge is the dominant impediment to HIV-1 inhibition in human TRIM5α  . Removal of this positive charge improved human TRIM5α restriction not only of HIV-1 but also of multiple lentiviruses  . Recent findings revealed that cyclophilin A  protects the HIV-1 capsid from TRIM5α recognition  . Although structural studies currently lack sufficient resolution to observe the molecular details of the TRIM5α–capsid interaction , we speculate that positive charge in the v1 loop impairs an interaction between TRIM5α and the capsid’s CypA-binding site via electrostatic repulsion . Increasing human TRIM5α expression has been shown to improve HIV-1 restriction  , although we identified at least one mutation  that improved expression without increasing activity against HIV-1 and at least one mutation  that reduced positive charge and improved HIV-1 restriction without increasing expression level  . For instance , many variants at position 333 of human TRIM5α led to increased restriction of HIV-1 and other lentiviruses  . One possibility is that changes in this residue might be generally deleterious for TRIM5α function , yet subsequent analyses revealed little or no impairment of TRIM5α antiviral functions  . More broadly , we identified many v1 loop mutations that improved human TRIM5α restriction of HIV-1 , and even other lentiviruses , without impairing N-MLV antiviral function  . Many gain-of-antiviral-function mutations increased TRIM5α expression levels  , and this increased expression might increase aberrant signaling by TRIM5α , driving chronic immune activation that can be costly for the host  . Our analyses uncovered a second unexpected , advantageous aspect of TRIM5α’s evolutionary landscape: its antiviral restriction displays remarkable mutational resilience across multiple orthologs and against two divergent retroviruses . This resilience is manifest even when potent antiviral activity is newly acquired via a single mutation , as with the R332P variant of human TRIM5α against HIV-1 . Therefore , we conclude that the fitness landscape of TRIM5α's rapidly evolving v1 loop resembles 'rolling hills'  , in which valleys are infrequent and only one evolutionary step removed from mutationally tolerant plateaus . The use of flexible loops for viral ligand binding by TRIM5α , as well as MxA  , thus grants rapidly evolving restriction factors mutational flexibility without significant risk of disrupting core protein structure . Nevertheless , the degree of mutational plasticity in TRIM5α's v1 loop is remarkable given that this loop is essential for ligand binding , suggesting that even functional constraints do not narrow its evolutionary landscape . Overall , our analyses reveal not only many paths for TRIM5α to gain antiviral function but also an unexpectedly low probability of losing antiviral function via single mutations . Although rare in human populations  , extensive polymorphism within the v1 loop of TRIM5α in Old World monkeys results in diverse antiviral repertoires that have been maintained by balancing selection  . Thus , TRIM5α appears to evolve with low-cost , high-gain fitness landscapes that favor its success in co-evolutionary battles with rapidly evolving retroviruses . HIV-1 VLPs were made with the transfer vector pHIV-ZsGreen  ; HIV-2 and SIV VLPs used the pALPS-eGFP transfer vector  ; and N-MLV was made with pQCXIP-eGFP , encoding GFP between the EcoRI and ClaI sites of pQCXIP  . HIV-2 VLPs used a chimeric gag/pol , in which the HIV-1 CA sequence  was replaced by HIV-2ROD   . For SIV VLPs , pCRV1-based gag/pol chimeric vectors replaced the HIV-1 CA-NTD  with the corresponding residues of either SIVmac239 , a virus passaged in rhesus macaques , here SIVmac  ; or SIVcpzGab2 , a natural isolate from chimpanzee , here SIVcpz   . For stable expression of TRIM5α constructs from pQCXIP , the MLV gag/pol was transiently expressed from JK3; the pseudotyping envelope protein was transiently expressed from the L-VSV-G plasmid and driven by expression of Tat from the CMV-Tat plasmid . C-terminally HA-tagged human , human with the rhesus macaque v1 loop , and rhesus macaque TRIM5α  were amplified and cloned into pQCXIP  , just upstream of the IRES–puromycin resistance cassette , between the EcoRI and NotI restriction sites . Targeted TRIM5α mutations were generated by Quikchange PCR using primers containing the desired point mutation flanked by 17–25 nucleotides of homology on each side of the mutation . Deep mutational scanning libraries were generated using degenerate primers to amplify TRIM5α-HA in pQCXIP using high-fidelity Q5 polymerase  . For each of the 11 or 13 codons in the v1 loop of human or rhesus TRIM5α , respectively , the two halves of TRIM5α  were amplified separately with shared flanking primers and unique internal primers for each codon  . For the human TRIM5α library in which R332P was fixed , internal primers matched the R332P variant of TRIM5α and codon 332 was not randomized . TRIM5α-transducing virus was produced using 1 µg of the appropriate TRIM5α construct , 600 ng of JK3 , 300 ng of L-VSV-G , and 100 ng of CMV-Tat . To increase titers for HIV-2 and N-MLV , and in some cases HIV-1 , virus was concentrated prior to freezing . The following day , virus was removed and cells were fed fresh media , which contained 6 µg/mL puromycin for TRIM5α-transducing VLPs only . For TRIM5α-transducing VLPs , cell survival was monitored daily by estimating cell confluence , until untransduced cells were completely dead  . CRFK cells were seeded in six-well plates at 2 × 105 cells/well the day prior to transduction; for deep mutational scanning libraries , sufficient cells were seeded to generate at least 500x independent transductions for each nucleotide variant  . CRFK cells expressing a TRIM5α deep mutational scanning library were seeded in 12-well plates at 1 × 105 cells/well the day prior to viral infection . For loss-of-restriction experiments  , we chose viral doses that were restricted by WT TRIM5α to <1% , as determined during preliminary titering experiments . For gain-of-HIV-1-restriction by human TRIM5α , we chose a viral dose in which WT TRIM5α was infected to ~98% , in order to minimize uninfected GFP-negative cells . For gain-of-HIV-1-restriction by human TRIM5α , sorted GFP-negative cells were pelleted and re-seeded at 1 × 105 cells/well for a second round of infection , at the same dose , the following day , in order to enrich true restrictors and deplete cells uninfected by chance . Infection , harvest , and FACS sorting were all performed identically , except that apparent HIV-1 restriction by pooled variants was improved in the second round of enrichment  . The first PCR amplified the v1 loop of TRIM5α and added adapters; the second set of PCR primers annealed to these adapters and added a unique 8 bp i7 Nextera barcode as well as P5 and P7 adapters for flow cell binding  . This method was used to calculate fold inhibition for all viruses except human TRIM5α against N-MLV , as we could not consistently achieve infection greater than 1% for WT human TRIM5α; we therefore report raw infection data . CRFK cells stably expressing TRIM5α-HA variants were harvested by trypsinization , washed in PBS , and counted; 106 cells were lysed for 15 min on ice in 100 µL pre-chilled lysis buffer  . A tBLASTn search of human TRIM5α  against primate genomes returned 29 unique simian primate orthologs of TRIM5α . "
"The TIM22 complex mediates the import of hydrophobic carrier proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane . While the TIM22 machinery has been well characterised in yeast , the human complex remains poorly characterised . Here , we identify Tim29  as a novel , metazoan-specific subunit of the human TIM22 complex . Tim29 is required for the stability of the TIM22 complex and functions in the assembly of hTim22 . Furthermore , Tim29 contacts the Translocase of the Outer Mitochondrial Membrane , TOM complex , enabling a mechanism for transport of hydrophobic carrier substrates across the aqueous intermembrane space . Identification of Tim29 highlights the significance of analysing mitochondrial import systems across phylogenetic boundaries , which can reveal novel components and mechanisms in higher organisms . Mitochondria cannot be created de novo and pre-existing mitochondria are used as templates for mitochondrial biogenesis . This genesis requires the ~1500 different mitochondrial proteins to be imported via dynamic translocation machines to one of four subcompartments of the organelle – outer and inner membrane , intermembrane space and matrix  . The Translocase of the Outer Membrane  complex is described as the general entry gate to mitochondria and provides a passageway through which precursors can cross the outer membrane . The mitochondrial inner membrane contains two translocase machines that are responsible for the import of a large fraction of the mitochondrial proteome; the Translocase of the Inner Membrane 23  complex and the Translocase of the Inner Membrane 22  complex . The TIM23 complex typically transports proteins that possess a matrix-targeting N-terminal presequence  , while the TIM22 complex mediates the inner membrane insertion of multi-transmembrane spanning proteins that contain internal targeting elements  . Substrates of the TIM22 complex include the mitochondrial carrier family , such as the ADP/ATP carrier  and the phosphate carrier  , and multispanning inner membrane proteins like , Tim17 and Tim23  and Tim22 itself   . In yeast cells , TIM22 is a 300-kDa complex , consisting of four membrane integral subunits , Tim22 , Tim54 , Tim18 and Sdh3 , and a peripheral chaperone complex consisting of the small TIM proteins , Tim9-Tim10-Tim12  . The small TIM proteins are a family of intermembrane space chaperones that facilitate the passage of hydrophobic membrane proteins through this aqueous environment . Tim9 and Tim10 form a soluble hexameric complex , but a fraction also interacts with the TIM22 complex via assembly with Tim12  . Like yeast , the human TIM22 complex consists of the channel-forming hTim22 protein , along with subunits of the small TIM family , hTim9 , hTim10a , and hTim10b  , with hTim10b being the functional homologue of yeast Tim12  . However , homologues of yeast Tim54 or Tim18 are absent in human cells and there is no evidence to indicate that the Sdh3 homologue , SDHC , interacts with the human TIM22 translocase . Thus , the true architecture of the human TIM22 complex remains an open question . Given the many elaborate functions of mitochondria in human cells , including , cell death , metabolism , tumorigenicity and neurodegenerative disorders , we reasoned the composition of the TIM22 complex in human cells is likely different to yeast . This led us to investigate the subunit composition of the human TIM22 complex . Here we report on the identification of C19orf52 as a novel subunit of the human TIM22 complex , and accordingly rename the protein as Tim29 . Tim29 functions in the assembly of hTim22 and consequently the stability of the TIM22 complex . Furthermore , we propose that Tim29 links the TIM22 complex to the general entry gate of mitochondria , the TOM complex . We sought to investigate the composition of the human TIM22 complex using affinity enrichment approaches . Exogenous expression of hTim22 in cells proved challenging , with the protein displaying a propensity to aggregate  . However , this was not the case for hTim10b and we therefore generated a stable tetracycline-inducible HEK293T cell line expressing hTim10b3XFLAG . Blue Native  -PAGE of isolated mitochondria revealed that hTim10b3XFLAG formed the same assemblies as the untagged hTim10b protein  , including the hTim9-hTim10a-hTim10b hexamer and a higher molecular weight 450-kDa TIM22 complex  . The previously uncharacterised protein C19orf52 immunoprecipitates with hTim10b . Representative fluorescence images of tetracycline-induced HEK293T cells that contained the Control empty vector  or hTim10b3XFLAG . Mitochondria isolated from control cells or cells expressing hTim10b3XFLAG were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer before being analysed by BN-PAGE and immunoblotting using anti-FLAG antibodies . -labelled hTim10b precursor was imported into mitochondria isolated from wild type HeLa cells for the indicated times in the presence or absence of a membrane potential  . Following import the mitochondria were re-isolated , lysed in digitonin-containing buffer and subjected to blue native electrophoresis and autoradiography . Mitochondria isolated from control and hTim10b expressing cells were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer . Volcano plot showing proteins enriched in hTim10b pull-down versus the empty vector control . The X-axis shows the Log2 fold change of Tim10b interacting partners and Y-axis shows the −log10 of the p-values . Rows are ordered by t-test difference between empty vector and hTim10b3xFLAG triplicates . 004 We affinity-purified hTim10b3XFLAG and associated proteins using anti-FLAG resin  and a stable cell line containing an empty vector was used as a negative control  . Eluate fractions were then analysed by label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to reveal the interacting partners of hTim10b . Among proteins that co-purified specifically with hTim10b3XFLAG were known interacting partners hTim10a , hTim9 and hTim22  , which suggested the purification of functional TIM22 complexes . The uncharacterised protein , C19orf52 , also displayed significant enrichment in the hTim10b3XFLAG sample  . We first performed a mitochondrial in vitro import assay to assess import of the protein into mitochondria . -C19orf52 was synthesised in rabbit reticulocyte lysate and imported into mitochondria isolated from HeLa cells . C19orf52 could be imported into a protease-protected location and in a time-dependent manner , but we did not observe proteolytic processing of the protein  , as observed for the presequence-containing , pre-ornithine transcarbamylase   . However , the import of C19orf52 was inhibited under conditions where the membrane potential  had been dissipated  in a similar manner to pOTC  , suggesting import via a Δψ-dependent import pathway . To confirm the mitochondrial localisation of C19orf52 and define the boundaries of the protein’s targeting information , we expressed the following constructs in HeLa cells as C-terminal FLAG-tagged fusion proteins:  full length C19orf52  ;  C19orf52 lacking the 16 amino acids that make up the predicted presequence  ;  the N-terminal 89 amino acids of C19orf52 , which includes the predicted presequence and transmembrane domain   ;  the N-terminal 89 amino acids of C19orf52 , but lacking the predicted presequence  and  a N-terminal truncation of C19orf52 containing amino acids 80–260  . C19orf52 showed exclusive localisation to mitochondria  , confirming the protein is indeed mitochondrial . C19orf52Δ16 and C19orf52aa17-89 , which both lack the N-terminal 16 amino acids were both targeted to mitochondria , suggesting that residues 1–16 are dispensable for targeting to the organelle  . Expression of C19orf52aa1-89 also displayed exclusive mitochondrial localisation , while C19orf52aa80-260 could not be targeted to mitochondria and was localised to the cytosol  . In vitro import of -labelled C19orf52 and pre-ornithine transcarbamylase , pOTC into mitochondria isolated from HeLa cells for the indicated times in the presence or absence of membrane potential  . Following import mitochondria were re-isolated and either left untreated  or treated with Proteinase K  . Mitochondria were isolated from stable tetracycline-inducible HEK293T cells expressing C19orf523XFLAG . Intact mitochondria  , mitoplasts  and solubilised mitochondria  were incubated with or without Proteinase K  and analysed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting using the indicated antibodies . Mitochondria isolated from C19orf523XFLAG expressing cells were subjected to alkaline extraction using 100 mM Na2CO3  . Mitochondria were isolated from cells transiently transfected with DNA encoding  C19orf52aa1-89  C19orf52△16 and  C19orf52aa17-89 as 3XFLAG fusions . Mitochondria  , mitoplasts  and solubilised mitochondrial membranes  were left untreated  or treated with Proteinase K  . Intact mitochondria were also treated with sodium carbonate to separate mitochondrial proteins into membrane integrated  or peripheral  proteins . C19orf523XFLAG was present in isolated mitochondria and only became accessible to external protease when the outer membrane was disrupted  , indicating the C-terminal FLAG tag is exposed to the intermembrane space . C19orf523XFLAG was resistant to carbonate treatment , like the membrane integrated Bak and Mfn2 , indicating that it is likely an integral membrane protein  . In a similar manner , subfractionation and carbonate extraction of mitochondria isolated from cells expressing C19orf521-89 revealed that the truncated protein is also an integral membrane protein that exposes it’s C-terminal FLAG tag to the intermembrane space  . Taken together this data indicates that C19orf52 is an integral inner membrane protein with a C-terminal domain exposed to the intermembrane space . Surprisingly , upon subfractionation and carbonate extraction of mitochondria isolated from cells expressing C19orf52△16 and C19orf5217-89  we noticed that these proteins failed to sort properly to the inner membrane , but appeared trapped in the outer membrane , most likely in the TOM complex  . Next we investigated the association of C19orf52 with the human TIM22 complex . Mitochondria from hTim10b3XFLAG and C19orf523XFLAG expressing cells were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer prior to analysis by BN-PAGE and immunodecoration  . C19orf52 specific antibodies revealed the presence of a high molecular weight complex of approximately 450-kDa , reminiscent of the TIM22 complex in both control  and hTim10b3XFLAG mitochondria  . We observed a slight delay in the migration of the C19orf52-containing complex in mitochondria isolated from hTim10b3XFLAG expressing cells  . This suggested that C19orf52 is located within a hTim10b3XFLAG-containing complex and the presence of the FLAG-tag is causing the observed delay in mobility . To interrogate this observation further , we performed antibody-shift analysis of the human TIM22 complex . In this case , -hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control , hTim10b3XFLAG and C19orf523XFLAG expressing cells where it assembled into the mature TIM22 complex  . Following import , mitochondria were isolated , solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer and incubated with anti-FLAG or anti-SDHA antibodies prior to BN-PAGE . As can be seen  , the FLAG antibodies shifted -hTim22  in both hTim10b3XFLAG and C19orf523XFLAG containing mitochondria , suggesting the presence of all three proteins within the same complex . In an alternative approach C19orf523XFLAG was shown to specifically immunoprecipitate hTim22  , while C19orf52 could be co-immunoprecipitated with hTim10b3XFLAG  . As a final source of confirmation immunoprecipitation of C19orf523XFLAG and subsequent quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis revealed the presence of all known TIM22 complex subunits , including hTim22 , hTim10b , hTim10a and hTim9  . These findings confirm that C19orf52 is a bona fide subunit of the human TIM22 complex , and represents a novel metazoan specific subunit of the translocation machine . Given that the molecular weight of the protein is 29 kDa and the nomenclature of the mitochondrial protein import machinery  , we henceforth rename this protein as Tim29 and its gene as TIMM29 . C19orf52 is a subunit of the human TIM22 complex . Mitochondria isolated from control or hTim10b3XFLAG-expressing cells were solubilised in 1% digitonin-containing buffer and analysed by BN-PAGE and western blotting with the indicated antibodies . -labelled hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control , C19orf523XFLAG or hTim10b3XFLAG expressing cells . Following import at 37°C mitochondria were reisolated , solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer and incubated with either anti-FLAG or anti-SDHA antibodies . Control and C19orf523XFLAG mitochondria were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer and subjected to immunoprecipitation using anti-FLAG resin . Digitonin-solubilised mitochondrial lysates from control and hTim10b3XFLAG expressing cells were subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-FLAG resin . C19orf52 immunoprecipitates TIM22 complex subunits . Data from C19orf523XFLAG immunoprecipitations looking at the presence of TIM22 complex subunits . 009 To investigate the molecular function of Tim29 at the TIM22 complex we undertook RNA interference studies in HEK293FS cells . Knockdown  of Tim29 was assessed relative to cells transfected with a non-targeting control and we also performed KD of hTim22 , which allowed us to monitor the implications of shutting down the carrier pathway  . To address the global impact of Tim29 and hTim22 KD on cell health and viability we monitored the impact of Tim29 and hTim22 KD on mitochondrial respiration , cell proliferation and cell viability . We measured mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates in intact cells by high-resolution respirometry to determine if the KD of Tim29 and hTim22 affects mitochondrial metabolism . Knockdown of Tim29 significantly reduced basal mitochondrial oxygen consumption to 65%  compared to cells transfected with a control scrambled siRNA  . This reduction in basal oxygen consumption was similar to that observed in hTim22 KD cells  . Following addition of FCCP , the maximal mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate was also significantly lower in Tim29 KD cells compared to control cells  and in hTim22 knockdown cells compared to the control  . KD of both Tim29 and hTim22 did not have any significant impact on cell proliferation  , or cell viability  . Next we assessed the impact of KD of Tim29 on TIM22 complex substrates at the steady state protein level . As can be seen , Tim29  and hTim22  were depleted from mitochondria while the control protein Mfn2 remained unaffected  . Specific depletion of TIM22 complex substrates , including hTim23 , ANT3 and the glutamate carrier was observed in both Tim29 and hTim22 depleted mitochondria  . The depletion of Tim29 also led to a significant reduction in the levels of hTim22  , while the lack of hTim22 had no obvious effect on the levels of Tim29 , indicating Tim29 is imported in a TIM22-independent manner  . BN-PAGE analysis also revealed that depletion of Tim29 caused a reduction in the assembly of ANT3 and hTIM23 complexes  , with the latter causing a reduction in the steady state level of TIM23 complex substrates   and import of -NDUFV1 and -NDUFV2  . Knockdown of Tim29 reduces the steady state protein levels of TIM22 substrates . HEK293FS cells were transfected with scrambled  or Tim29 siRNA targets for 96 hr . Following knock-down mitochondria were isolated from cells and analysed using SDS-PAGE and western blotting analysis with the indicated antibodies . Mitochondria were isolated from control cells  or cells transfected with hTim22 siRNA target for 96 hr . Mitochondrial proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting using the indicated antibodies and quantified as described above  Mitochondria were isolated from control or Tim29 knock down  cells and solubilised in 1% digitonin-containing buffer . Cellular consequences of Tim29 depletion . HEK293FS cells were transfected with scrambled  or Tim29 siRNA targets for 72 hr . Following knock-down mitochondria were isolated from cells and analysed using SDS-PAGE and western blotting analysis with the indicated antibodies . HEK293FS cells were transfected with scrambled  or hTim22 siRNA targets for 72 hr . Following knock-down mitochondria were isolated from cells and analysed using SDS-PAGE and western blotting analysis with the indicated antibodies . Oxygen consumption was measured in HEK293FS cells following knockdown of Tim29 or hTim22  . Knockdown of either Tim29 or hTim22 significantly reduced both basal and maximal mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates . Proliferation of control , Tim29 and hTIm22 KD cells were determined by BrdU incorporation for 24 hr . Cells transfected with scrambled  or Tim29 siRNA targets were treated with propidium iodide  72 hr post transfection and analysed using flow cytometry for% of cell death . TIM23 complex substrates are reduced in cells depleted of Tim29 . Mitochondria were isolated from control cells  or cells transfected with Tim29 siRNA target for 72 hr . Mitochondrial proteins were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting using the indicated antibodies . The levels of the TIM23 complex substrates , COXIV , NDUFV2 and NDUFV1 was quantified relative to protein levels in control mitochondria and normalised against the loading control Mfn2 . -labelled NDUFV1 and NDUFV3 were imported into mitochondria isolated from control and Tim29 knockdown cells for the indicated times . 012 The decrease in Tim29 protein levels also revealed a reduction in the levels of the endogenous TIM22 complex on BN-PAGE  . This observation and the decrease of endogenous TIM22 complex substrates in Tim29 KD cells , prompted us to address if this decrease was due to:  an active role of Tim29 in the import of substrates into the inner membrane , or  a role of Tim29 in the biogenesis of the TIM22 complex itself . To address this , we investigated the in vitro import and assembly of two well-established substrates of the TIM22 pathway , ANT1 and hTim23 . While the assembly of ANT1 was reduced in the absence of hTim22 at 60 min  , assembly of the protein proceeded like WT in the absence of Tim29  . In contrast , the assembly of hTim23 was mildly reduced in mitochondria depleted of either Tim29 or hTim22  . We next addressed the assembly of the TIM22 complex itself using the radiolabelled hTim22 . In mitochondria isolated from control cells , -hTim22 efficiently assembled into the 450-kDa TIM22 complex  , while there was a clear assembly defect into the TIM22 complex in mitochondria isolated from Tim29 KD cells  . The amount of assembled TIM22 complex in Tim29 KD mitochondria was lower than that in the control mitochondria by 53% , after a 60 min-import . To support this observation , we examined the difference in hTim22 protein assembly in control and Tim29 KD mitochondria using a two-tailed Student’s t-test . 02  , demonstrating a significant reduction in the assembly of hTim22 into the mature complex in Tim29 KD mitochondria . On the contrary , we consistently detected a moderate increase  in assembled TIM22 complex in hTim22 KD mitochondria after a 60 min-import compared to control mitochondria  . Knockdown of Tim29 influences the assembly of the TIM23 complex , but not ANT1 . -labelled ANT1 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control or Tim29  or hTim22  knock-down  cells for the indicated times in the presence or absence of membrane potential  . Import of -hTim23 was performed and quantified as described above . Tim29 is required for the assembly of hTim22 into the mature TIM22 complex . -hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control  or Tim29 knock-down  cells for the indicated times in the presence or absence of membrane potential  . Assembled hTim22 was quantified from three independent experiments . The amount of assembled hTim22 in control mitochondria at 60 min was set to 100% . -hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control  or hTim22 knock-down cells and treated as described in  . The amount of assembled hTim22 in control mitochondria at 60 min was set to 100% . 014 In the absence of Tim29 we did observe a minor decrease in the import kinetics of -hTim22 by SDS-PAGE  , however , following treatment of isolated mitochondria with sodium carbonate it was apparent that -hTim22 protein efficiently integrated into the inner membrane in mitochondria isolated from both Tim29 and hTim22 KD cells  . Based on these observations , we conclude that Tim29 is required for the assembly of the hTim22 protein into the TIM22 complex . hTim22 is integrated into the inner membrane in the absence of Tim29 . -hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control  , and Tim29  or hTim22  knock-down cells for the indicated times in the presence or absence of membrane potential  and analysed by SDS-PAGE . The import efficiency of -hTim22 into control or Tim29/hTim22 knock-down mitochondria was quantified  and the yield at the longest import time into the control mitochondria was set to 100% . -hTim22 was imported into mitochondria isolated from control  , and Tim29  or hTim22  knock-down cells for 45 min . Mitochondria were isolated and treated with sodium carbonate and separated into a membrane integrated  and peripheral membrane protein  . 015 Coupling of the TOM and TIM23 complexes in yeast mitochondria is believed to enhance the import efficiency of presequence-containing precursors  . More recently , coupling between the TOM and SAM complexes of the outer membrane in yeast mitochondria has been shown to be important for the biogenesis of β-barrel proteins  . Interestingly , no interaction has ever been reported between the TOM and TIM22 translocases in yeast mitochondria . Rather , the carrier pathway is described as a series of five stages , with stage 3 encompassing the transfer of substrates between the TOM and TIM22 complexes by the soluble intermembrane space Tim9-Tim10 complex  . Given that Tim29 exposes a domain into the intermembrane space , we reasoned it could have a role in linking the TIM22 complex to the TOM complex in mammalian mitochondria . Mitochondria were isolated from control and Tim293XFLAG expressing cells , solubilised in digitonin and incubated with anti-FLAG resin for immunoprecipitation of the FLAG-tagged proteins and associated partners . As expected , we observed co-elution of hTim9 with Tim293XFLAG . Interestingly , we observed a fraction of both hTom40 and hTom22 co-eluting with Tim293XFLAG , suggesting a co-operation between Tim29 and the TOM complex  . To confirm this interaction , we imported radiolabelled versions of hTom40 , hTom22 and hTim9  into mitochondria isolated from control and Tim293XFLAG expressing cells and following import subjected the isolated mitochondria to immunoprecipitation with anti-FLAG resin  . Indeed a fraction of both hTom40 and hTom22 were observed in the Tim29 elution fraction  , like that of the control protein hTim9  . Tim29 couples the TIM22 complex to the TOM complex . Mitochondria were isolated from control and Tim293XFLAG expressing cells and were solubilised in 0 . -hTim9 , -hTom40 and -hTom22 were imported into mitochondria isolated from control cells or cells expressing Tim293XFLAG for 60 min . 3XFLAGhTom22 localises to mitochondria and assembles within the TOM complex . HeLa cells were transiently transfected with DNA encoding 3XFLAGhTom22 and analysed by immunofluorescence using anti-FLAG antibodies  and anti-NDUFAF2  . Intact mitochondria were also treated with sodium carbonate to separate mitochondrial proteins into membrane integrated  or peripheral  proteins . Mitochondria isolated from 3XFLAGhTom22 expressing cells were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer and analysed by BN-PAGE and immunoblotting with the indicated antibodies . 017 If the interaction we observed between TIM22 and TOM was authentic , it should be possible to perform the reverse experiment , i . copurification of the TIM22 complex with a tagged TOM complex . We generated an N-terminally-tagged variant of TOM22 , which localised to mitochondria and assembles into the TOM complex  . Upon solubilisation of the 3XFLAGhTom22 mitochondria and immunoprecipitation we observed co-purification of hTom40 and hTom70  as expected . We also observed a fraction of hTim9 , Tim29 and hTim22 co-purifying with the TOM complex , while numerous controls of the outer membrane  , intermembrane space  , inner membrane  and matrix  did not co-elute with hTom22  . Given that the TIM22 complex was not purified in great amounts , the data suggest the interaction between TOM and TIM22 complexes is labile in the absence of precursor protein , or under the conditions employed for the immunoprecipitation . To explore the relationship between TOM and TIM22 further , we performed chemical cross-linking with dithiobis   , an amino-group-specific homobifunctional crosslinker that is cleaved by reducing agents . Mitochondria isolated from control and Tim293XFLAG expressing cells were incubated with DSP , solubilised in SDS to dissociate non-covalent interactions and then incubated with anti-FLAG resin for purification of Tim293XFLAG-containing species . Interestingly , we found hTom40 cross-linked to Tim29  , but not hTom22  . We also observed crosslinks between Tim29 and hTim9 , but not hTim22   . We next performed cross-linking using mitochondria isolated from cells expressing hTim10b3XFLAG and although we observed cross-links of hTim10b with both hTim9 and Tim29 we did not observe any crosslinks with hTom40  . Taken together , these results suggest that Tim29 acts as a bridge between the TIM22 and TOM complexes . Tim29 interacts with hTom40 . Mitochondria isolated from control and Tim293XFLAG expressing cells were incubated with 0 . Upon quenching of excess cross-linker , mitochondria were solubilised in SDS-containing buffer and subjected to immunoprecipitation using anti-FLAG resin . Mitochondria isolated from control and hTim10b3XFLAG expressing cells were treated as described for A and B . In this study , we have identified C19orf52 as a new subunit of the human TIM22 complex , and have retitled this protein Tim29 . While the yeast TIM22 complex and import pathway have been extensively characterised , the human TIM22 complex has remained ill defined . Conservation of members of the human TIM22 complex  based on sequence homology was originally published approximately 17 years ago  . Our work brings the number of known subunits of the human TIM22 complex to five: hTim22  , hTim9 , hTim10a , hTim10b  and Tim29  . Interestingly , our immunoprecipitations and mass spectrometry data for both hTim10b3XFLAG and C19orf523XFLAG did not reveal the presence of SDHC , suggesting the human protein is not a subunit of the human TIM22 complex , at least under the conditions in which we perform the immunoprecipitation experiments . showed that the assembly of yeast Sdh3 at both Complex II and TIM22 is influenced by the formation of different sub-complexes with the highly homologous Sdh4 and Tim18 . The Sdh3-Sdh4 and Sdh3-Tim18 subcomplexes subsequently deliver the protein to either Complex II or TIM22 , respectively . It is feasible to suggest that the lack of Tim18 in human mitochondria could prevent the association of SDHC to the hTIM22 complex . Tim29 was a previously uncharacterised protein , however the MitoCarta 2 . Mitochondrial subfractionation and carbonate extraction confirmed that Tim29 is an integral protein of the mitochondrial inner membrane . Given that there is only one predicted transmembrane region , we propose Tim29 is inserted into the mitochondrial inner membrane via this single transmembrane segment , with its amino-terminus facing the matrix and carboxyl-terminus exposed to the intermembrane space . Interestingly , we confirmed that targeting and proper sorting of Tim29 to the inner membrane relies on the first 89 amino acids of the protein . Although fluorescence microscopy suggested that constructs lacking the first 16 amino acids  could be targeted to mitochondria , closer investigation using mitochondrial subfractionation and carbonate extraction reveals these proteins failed to sort to the inner membrane . Given this observation and that the knockdown of hTim22 did not influence the levels of Tim29 , the protein is most likely imported via the TIM23 complex , however this needs to be experimentally verified . Knockdown of Tim29 resulted in a reduction in the steady-state levels of ANT , but import and assembly kinetics of radiolabelled ANT were similar to control mitochondria . In contrast , hTim23 , which is also a substrate for the hTIM22 complex showed an assembly defect both in vitro and at the steady state level . Such a scenario has previously been reported for the yeast TIM22 complex , with deletion of Tim18 differentially affecting the import kinetics of the AAC and Tim23  . It is possible that depletion of Tim29 affects the activity of the human TIM23 complex by a more direct mechanism , whereas the import of ANT only requires the TIM22 complex and the residual complex remaining following knockdown is enough to import and assemble the small amounts of radiolabelled protein used in the in vitro import assay . The depletion of Tim29 also caused a reduction in the levels of the TIM22 complex when assessed by BN-PAGE . Given that hTim22 is integrated into the membrane in mitochondria isolated from the Tim29 KD cells , we conclude that Tim29 is required for the assembly of hTim22 into the TIM22 complex . In addition to this role our data indicate that Tim29 facilitates cooperation between the TIM22 and TOM complexes , by directly interacting with hTom40 . Cooperation between the TOM and TIM23 complexes is well established in yeast cells  , however a similar interaction between the TOM and TIM22 complex has not been reported thus far . We have captured an interaction between the TOM and TIM22 complexes in organello using both Tim29 and hTom22 as bait . Furthermore , using chemical crosslinking we narrowed down specific interactions between:  Tim29 and hTim9;  Tim29 and hTim10b; hTim10b and hTim9; and Tim29 and hTom40 . We were puzzled to see an interaction between Tim29 and hTom40 , since in yeast TIM23 interacts with TOM via Tom22 , which exposes a domain into the intermembrane space  . However , Shiota and colleagues  recently showed that the intermembrane space chaperone , Tim10 interacts with an N-terminal region of Tom40 . This suggests that the N-terminal region of Tom40 extends through the β-barrel pore into the intermembrane space  , and such a mechanism could be mediating the interaction between hTom40 and the intermembrane space localised region of Tim29 . In yeast the intermembrane space chaperones Tim9-Tim10 passage carrier precursors through the aqueous intermembrane space delivering them from TOM to TIM22  . Why would a TOM-TIM22 interaction be necessary in human mitochondria ? The answer could lie with the nature of the small TIM chaperones within mammalian mitochondria . Early studies by Mühlenbein and colleagues  suggested that human mitochondria lack soluble Tim9-Tim10 complexes , but rather these proteins are more tightly associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane . Thus , even though the function of the small TIM proteins has been conserved through evolution , the import of carrier proteins into mammalian mitochondria is efficient even in the absence of soluble Tim9-Tim10 complexes . A close association between the TOM and TIM22 complexes could be one such mechanism . Further investigation is necessary to tease out the precise role of the TOM-TIM22 interaction and how it is influenced by the presence of precursor protein . In summary , by assessing the subunit composition of the human TIM22 complex , we have identified Tim29 and uncovered a novel interaction between the TIM22 and TOM complexes . This suggests that novel mechanisms are overseeing the import of carrier proteins into human mitochondria . Interestingly , Tim29  was recently shown to be up-regulated in primary hepatocellular carcinoma cells  . Thus , examining protein import machineries and pathways in human cells is essential and will pave the way to deeper understanding of how mitochondrial protein import influences cell viability , physiology and ultimately human pathologies . The following sequences and concentrations were utilised: Tim29  and hTim22  . For crosslinking experiments , mitochondria  were resuspended in import buffer  and incubated with the amino-group-specific homobifunctional and cleavable crosslinker , DSP; dithiobis   at a final concentration of 0 . For analysis of protein complexes by blue native electrophoresis and antibody-shift mitochondria were solubilised in 1% digitonin  and incubated with the desired antibody for 30 min on ice , prior to clarification and subsequent analysis by BN-PAGE . Following in vitro import samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and BN-PAGE and radiolabelled proteins were detected by digital autoradiography . Each specific time point was normalised against the value in control mitochondria with the longest import time point and were computed as a % of this control . Differences in the import of proteins between control  and Tim29 or hTim22 knock-down mitochondria were examined using a paired two-tailed Student’s t-test on 2 d . Proliferation of control  , hTim22 and Tim29 siRNA transfected cells was examined using the bromodeoxyuridine  Cell Proliferation ELISA kit  . Primary antibodies included: anti-FLAG  , cytochrome c  , anti-OPA1  , hTim23  , SDHA  ; ANT3  , glutamate carrier  , hTim22  , Tim29  ; Tim9  ; NDUFV1  ; NDUFV2  ; Tom70  ; COXIV  . Briefly , isolated mitochondria from control cells  and cells expressing FLAG tagged proteins were solubilised in digitonin-containing buffer  supplemented with 1X complete protease  at 2 mg/mL end over end on a rotary wheel for 30–60 min at 4°C . "
"Mounting evidence suggests a relationship between resting Vmem and the physiology of non-excitable cells with implications in diverse areas , including cancer , cellular differentiation , and body patterning . A lack of non-invasive methods to record absolute Vmem limits our understanding of this fundamental signal . To address this need , we developed a fluorescence lifetime-based approach  to visualize and optically quantify Vmem with single-cell resolution in mammalian cell culture . Using VF-FLIM , we report Vmem distributions over thousands of cells , a 100-fold improvement relative to electrophysiological approaches . In human carcinoma cells , we visualize the voltage response to growth factor stimulation , stably recording a 10–15 mV hyperpolarization over minutes . The ability to optically quantify absolute Vmem with cellular resolution will allow a re-examination of its signaling roles . In non-electrically excitable cells , slower changes in Vmem—on the order of seconds to hours—are linked to a variety of fundamental cellular processes  , including mitosis  , cell cycle progression  , and differentiation  . Despite the importance of membrane potential to diverse processes over a range of time scales , the existing methods for recording Vmem are inadequate for characterizing distributions of Vmem states in a sample or studying gradual shifts in resting membrane potential  . Where reduced invasiveness or higher throughput analyses of Vmem are required , optical methods for detecting events involving Vmem changes  are often employed  . However , optical approaches generally use fluorescence intensity values as a readout , which cannot report either the value of Vmem in millivolts  or the millivolt amount by which Vmem changed  . This limitation restricts optical analysis to detection of acute Vmem changes , which can be analyzed without comparisons of Vmem between cells or over long timescales . For Vmem specifically , ratio-based signals can be accessed either with a two-component system or with an electrochromic voltage sensitive dye , but neither strategy has enabled accurate absolute Vmem recordings . While they benefit from simpler loading procedures , signals from electrochromic styryl dyes require normalization with an electrode on each cell of interest to determine absolute Vmem accurately  . As a result , ratiometric Vmem sensors cannot be used to optically quantify slow signals in the resting Vmem , which may be on the order of tens of millivolts . Indeed , ratiometric Vmem probes are most commonly applied to detect - rather than quantify - fast changes in Vmem  , much like their single wavelength counterparts . Because fluorescence lifetime is an intrinsic property , FLIM can avoid many of the artifacts that confound extrinsic fluorescence intensity measurements , such as uneven dye loading , fluorophore bleaching , variations in illumination intensity , and detector sensitivity  . Although FLIM measurements can be affected by environmental factors such as temperature , ionic strength and local environment  , FLIM has been widely employed to record a number of biochemical and biophysical parameters , including intracellular Ca2+ concentration  , viscosity  , GTPase activity  , kinase activity  , and redox state   , among others  . Previous work focused on genetically encoded voltage indicators  , which either possess complex relationships between τfl and voltage  or show low sensitivity to voltage in lifetime  and require complex and technically challenging measurements of fast photochemical kinetics to estimate voltage  . Fluorescent voltage indicators that use photoinduced electron transfer  as a voltage-sensing mechanism are promising candidates for a FLIM-based approach to optical Vmem quantification . We previously established that VoltageFluor  -type dyes transduce changes in cellular membrane potential to changes in fluorescence intensity and that the voltage response of VF dyes is consistent with a PeT-based response mechanism  . Changes in the transmembrane potential alter the rate of PeT  from an electron-rich aniline donor to a fluorescent reporter , thereby modulating the fluorescence intensity of VF dyes   . Here , we develop fluorescence lifetime imaging of VoltageFluor dyes  as a quantitative , all-optical approach for recording absolute membrane potential with single cell resolution . Using patch-clamp electrophysiology as a standard , we demonstrate that VF-FLIM reports absolute membrane potential in single trials with 10 to 23 mV accuracy  , depending on the cell line . In all cases tested , VF-FLIM tracks membrane potential changes with better than 5 mV accuracy  . We benchmark VF-FLIM against previously reported optical absolute Vmem recording approaches and demonstrate resolution improvements of 8-fold over ratiometric strategies and 19-fold over other lifetime-based strategies . VF-FLIM is limited to acquisition speeds on the order of seconds , but it is well-suited for studying gradual Vmem dynamics . Using VF-FLIM , we quantify and track the evolution of a 10–15 mV Vmem hyperpolarization over minutes following epidermal growth factor  stimulation of human carcinoma cells . Our results show that fluorescence lifetime of VF dyes is a generalizable and effective approach for studying resting membrane potential in a range of cell lines  . To characterize how the photoinduced electron transfer process affects fluorescence lifetime , we compared the τfl of the voltage-sensitive dye VF2 . Cl with its voltage-insensitive counterpart VF2 . We recorded the τfl of bath-applied VF dyes in HEK293T cells using time-correlated single-photon counting  FLIM  . Shortened VF lifetimes were observed at high dye concentrations  ; all subsequent VF-FLIM studies were conducted at dye concentrations low enough to avoid this concentration-dependent change in lifetime . To assess the voltage dependence of VoltageFluor τfl , we controlled the plasma membrane potential of HEK293T cells with whole-cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology while simultaneously measuring the τfl of VF2 . Cl τfl is reproducible across different cells at the same resting membrane potential , allowing determination of Vmem from τfl images taken without concurrent electrophysiology  . Cl shows no τfl change in response to voltage  , consistent with a τfl change in VF2 . These values are in good agreement with the 27% ΔF/F intensity change per 100 mV originally observed for VF2 . Because %ΔF/F is a fluorescence intensity-based metric , it cannot be used to measure absolute Vmem; however , agreement between %ΔF/F and %Δτ/τ is consistent with a PeT-based Vmem sensing mechanism in VFs . To estimate the voltage resolution of VF-FLIM , we analyzed the variability in successive measurements on the same cell  and on different cells  . 4 mV  , whereas the resolution for single-trial determination of a particular HEK293T cell’s absolute Vmem is 19 mV  within a 15 s bandwidth . We compared the performance of VF-FLIM in HEK293T cells to that of two previously documented strategies for optical absolute Vmem determination . We first tested the voltage resolution of CAESR , the best previously reported GEVI for recording absolute Vmem with FLIM  . Using simultaneous FLIM and voltage-clamp electrophysiology , we determined the relationship between τfl and Vmem for CAESR under one photon excitation  . For CAESR in HEK293T cells , we calculate a voltage resolution of 33 ± 7 mV for quantifying voltage changes on an individual cell  and resolution of 370 mV for determination of a particular cell’s absolute Vmem  . For analysis of voltage resolution , we compare VF-FLIM to the non-normalized R , since normalization requires an electrode-based measurement for every recording and is thus not a truly optical strategy . From the non-normalized di-8-ANEPPS R , we obtain an intra-cell resolution  of 18 ± 3 mV  and an inter-cell resolution  of 150 mV  . The sensitivities and resolutions of VF-FLIM , CAESR , and di-8-ANEPPS in HEK293T are tabulated in Figure 1—source data 3 . Because cellular resting membrane potentials and voltage changes  are on the order of tens of millivolts , the resolution improvements achieved by VF-FLIM enable biologically relevant absolute Vmem recordings: impossible with previous approaches . To test the generalizability of VF-FLIM , we determined τfl-Vmem calibrations in four additional commonly used cell lines: A431 , CHO , MDA-MB-231 , and MCF-7  . The slope  and y-intercept  of the τfl-Vmem response varied slightly across cell lines , with average sensitivities of 3 . In all cell lines , we observed better voltage resolution for quantification of Vmem changes on a given cell versus comparisons of absolute Vmem between cells . Changes in voltage for a given cell could be quantified with resolutions at or better than 5 mV  . For absolute Vmem determination of a single cell , we observed voltage resolutions ranging from 10 to 23 mV  . Statistically significant differences among the cell lines tested were observed for cellular τfl-Vmem calibrations in both the slope ( One-way ANOVA with Welch’s correction: F  =18 . MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells showed statistically significant variability from other cell lines in slope and/or 0 mV lifetime . To verify that VF-FLIM was robust in groups of cells in addition to the isolated , single cells generally used for patch clamp electrophysiology , we determined lifetime-voltage relationships for small groups of A431 cells  . We found that calibrations made in small groups of cells are nearly identical to those obtained on individual cells , indicating that VF-FLIM only needs to be calibrated once for a given type of cell . The slight reduction in sensitivity seen in cell groups is likely attributable to space clamp error , which prevents complete voltage clamp of the cell group  . To test whether VF-FLIM is also extensible to cells maintained with different culture conditions , we recorded lifetime-Vmem relationship in serum-starved A431 cells  , obtaining an average sensitivity of 3 . We also tested for concentration-dependent changes in VF lifetime in all five cell lines and in serum starvation conditions . Cl lifetime in HEK293T cells  , we observed shortening of VF2 . Cl concentrations well below the regime where VF concentration-dependent lifetime changes were observed . The throughput of VF-FLIM enables cataloging of resting membrane potentials of thousands of cells in only a few hours of the experimenter’s time . We optically recorded resting membrane potential distributions for A431 , CHO , HEK293T , MCF-7 , and MDA-MB-231 cells using VF-FLIM  . Each group of cells represents an independent sample for Vmem . VF-FLIM images  contain spatially resolved voltage information , but caution should be employed in interpreting pixel to pixel differences in lifetime . Because VF-FLIM was calibrated here using the average plasma membrane τfl for each cell , optical Vmem should be interpreted per cell or cell group . Mean resting membrane potentials recorded by VF-FLIM range from −53 to −29 mV , depending on the cell line . These average Vmem values fall within the range reported in the literature for all of the cell lines we measured  . We also recorded resting membrane potentials in a high K+ buffer  , where we observed a depolarization of 15 to 41 mV , bringing the mean Vmem up to −26 mV to +4 mV , again depending on the cell line . Because few literature reports of electrophysiological measurements in 120 mM K+ exist as a point of comparison , we obtained a rough estimate of Vmem in 6 mM extracellular K+ and 120 mM extracellular K+ using the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz  equation  . Under our imaging conditions and with a broad range of possible ion permeabilities and intracellular ion concentrations , the GHK equation allows Vmem ranging from −91 to −27 mV in 6 mM extracellular K+ and −25 to +2 mV in 120 mM extracellular K+  . Recorded VF-FLIM values fall well within this allowed range . Notably , although the GHK equation can determine ranges of reasonable Vmem values , GHK-based Vmem results are approximate at best because of the difficulty in obtaining accurate values of permeabilities and intracellular ion concentrations for specific cell lines . We thought VF-FLIM was a promising method for elucidating the roles of membrane potential in non-excitable cell signaling . Specifically , we wondered whether VF-FLIM might be well-suited to dissect conflicting reports surrounding changes in membrane potential during EGF/EGF receptor  -mediated signaling . We find that treatment of A431 cells with EGF results in a 15 mV hyperpolarization within 60–90 s in approximately 80% of cells  , followed by a slow return to baseline within 15 min  . Cl  reveal little change in τfl upon EGF treatment , indicating the drop in τfl arises from membrane hyperpolarization . BAPTA-AM treated cells show a small , 4 mV depolarization in response to EGF treatment , similar to CTX-treated cells  . These results support a model for EGF-EGFR mediated hyperpolarization in which RTK activity of EGFR causes release of internal Ca2+ stores to in turn open KCa channels and hyperpolarize the cell  . The key advantage of VF-FLIM over previously reported optical approaches is its superior Vmem resolution . Resolution can be interpreted as stability of the τfl-Vmem calibration over time and between cells . Any factors other than Vmem that change τfl decrease resolution . VF-FLIM exhibits a 19-fold improvement in inter-cell Vmem resolution over FLIM with the GEVI CAESR  and a 8-fold improvement over di-8-ANEPPS excitation ratios  . Although all optical strategies , including VF-FLIM , have worse Vmem resolution than modern electrophysiology , the greater throughput , improved spatial resolution , and reduced invasiveness of optical strategies make them a powerful complement to electrode-based recordings . The sources of variability that reduce resolution of optical Vmem measurements are manifold , but two major contributors are membrane specificity of the stain and the complexity of the lipid environment . Styryl dyes like di-8-ANEPPS can respond to changes in dipole potential  , and VF dyes may be similarly sensitive to dipole potential . VF-FLIM , like all optical approaches , improves upon the spatial resolution of patch clamp electrophysiology . While VF-FLIM records the Vmem of an optically defined region of interest  , electrophysiology records Vmem at an individual cell or part of a cell where the electrode makes contact , which may or may not reflect the Vmem of the entire cell or group . In this study , we interpret VF-FLIM at the whole cell level only , since that is the smallest unit in which the Vmem can be reliably calibrated by whole cell patch clamp electrophysiology . Intriguingly , there are differences in lifetime within some cells in VF-FLIM images at the pixel to pixel level . These lower photon counts at the single pixel level produce Vmem estimates that are less precise than the Vmem estimate for the entire ROI . Vmem recordings in systems too large or too small for electrophysiological study could be an important application of VF-FLIM . Despite the improbability of Vmem compartmentalization in individual HEK293T cells , other cells with complex morphology and processes may display real , subcellular Vmem differences . One remaining challenge in expanding VF-FLIM to these areas is the requirement for an initial calibration with voltage clamp electrophysiology . When applying VF-FLIM to tissues , the cellular specificity of the VF stain becomes a consideration , as the VF2 . Looking ahead , recordings in tissue are an exciting area for future development of VF-FLIM , particularly in conjunction with cellular and sub-cellular strategies for targeting VF dyes  . To obtain absolute Vmem measurements with fluorescence lifetime , VF-FLIM sacrifices some of the temporal resolution of electrophysiology or intensity-based voltage imaging . VF-FLIM acquisition times are limited by the large numbers of photons needed per pixel in time-correlated single photon counting  . As a result , VF-FLIM in its current implementation can track Vmem events lasting longer than a few seconds . For ‘resting’ membrane potential or Vmem dynamics associated with cell growth or differentiation , this temporal resolution is likely sufficient . Nevertheless , in the future , we envision allying VF-FLIM with recently developed , faster lifetime imaging technology to enable optical quantification of more rapid Vmem responses  . Using the improved Vmem resolution and throughput of VF-FLIM , we optically documented resting membrane potential distributions in cultured cells to characterize the membrane potential state  present . The presence and significance of distinct Vmem states in cell populations is mostly uncharacterized due to the throughput limitations of patch-clamp electrophysiology , but some reports suggest that distinct Vmem states arise during the various phases of the cell cycle  . Vmem histograms presented in this work appear more or less unimodal , showing no clear sign of cell cycle-related Vmem states  . We considered the possibility that VF-FLIM does not detect cell-cycle-related Vmem states because we report average Vmem across cell groups in cases where cells are in contact  . First , Vmem distributions for CHO cells appear unimodal , even though CHO cultures were mostly comprised of isolated cells under the conditions tested  . Second , theoretical work suggests that dramatically different Vmem states in adjacent cells are unlikely , as electrical coupling often leads to equilibration of Vmem across the cell group  . Although we cannot rule out the possibility of poorly separated Vmem populations  , VF-FLIM both prompts and enables a re-examination of the notion that bi- or multimodal Vmem distributions exist in cultured cells . Furthermore , VF-FLIM represents an exciting opportunity to experimentally visualize theorized Vmem patterns in culture and in more complex tissues . In the present study , we use VF-FLIM to provide the first cell-resolved , direct visualization of voltage changes induced by growth factor signaling . For long term Vmem recordings during growth-related processes , an optical approach is more attractive than an electrode-based one . Previous attempts to electrophysiologically record Vmem in EGF-stimulated A431 cells were unsuccessful due to these technical challenges  . Because whole cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology was intractable , the Vmem response in EGF-stimulated A431 cells was addressed indirectly through model cell lines expressing EGFR exogenously  , bulk measurements on trypsinized cells in suspension  , or cell-attached single channel recordings  . By stably recording Vmem during EGF stimulation , VF-FLIM enables direct study of Vmem signaling in otherwise inaccessible pathways . Interestingly , under some conditions where K+-mediated hyperpolarization is blocked  , VF-FLIM reveals a small , secondary depolarizing current not visible during normal EGF stimulation . Although we have obtained direct and conclusive evidence of EGF-induced hyperpolarization in A431 cells , the interactions between this voltage change and downstream targets of EGFR remain incompletely characterized . Small changes in Vmem likely affect signaling pathways in ways that are currently completely unknown , but high throughput discovery of Vmem targets remains challenging . Combination of electrophysiology with single cell transcriptomics has begun to uncover relationships between Vmem and other cellular pathways in excitable cells  ; such approaches could be coupled to higher throughput VF-FLIM methods to explore pathways that interact with Vmem in non-excitable contexts . VF-FLIM represents a novel and general approach for interrogating the roles of membrane potential in fundamental cellular physiology . VF-FLIM can be further expanded to include the entire color palette of PeT-based voltage indicators  , allied with targeting methods to probe absolute membrane potential in heterogeneous cellular populations  , and coupled to high-speed imaging techniques for optical quantification of fast voltage events  . "
"Events separated in time are associatively learned in trace conditioning , recruiting more neuronal circuits and molecular mechanisms than in delay conditioning . However , it remains unknown whether a given sensory memory trace is being maintained as a unitary item to associate . Here , we used conditioned taste aversion learning in the rat model , wherein animals associate a novel taste with visceral nausea , and demonstrate that there are two parallel memory traces of a novel taste: a short-duration robust trace , lasting approximately 3 hr , and a parallel long-duration weak one , lasting up to 8 hr , and dependent on the strong trace for its formation . Moreover , only the early robust trace is maintained by a NMDAR-dependent CaMKII- AMPAR pathway in the insular cortex . These findings suggest that a memory trace undergoes rapid modifications , and that the mechanisms underlying trace associative learning differ when items in the memory are experienced at different time points . Association between events in time and space is a major mechanism for all animals , including humans , to learn about the world , which can potentially change their behavior in future circumstances . The most influential books concerning learning theory published early in the 20th century were Animal Intelligence  , wherein Thorndike proposed that the rate of learning diminishes as the interval between response and discomfort/satisfaction is increased  , and Conditioned Reflexes  , wherein Pavlov highlighted that a connection is formed in the nervous system , not between a conditioned stimulus  and unconditioned stimulus  separated in time , but between the sensory aftereffects , i . , trace of the CS , and the US  . Thus , in essence , these theories mention that temporal contiguity has a vital influence on associative learning . The prevailing dogma for cellular mechanisms underlying associative learning is based on modifications of Hebb’s pioneering cell assembly theory  which posits that ‘cells which fire together , wire together' , and thus the firing cells epitomize the internal representations of the two sensory events related in time  . Indeed , it has been shown that at least in certain cases , selective facilitation of densely connected neurocircuits through excitability and/or synaptic plasticity , as a result of an experience , constitutes the basis for learning and memory  . Most of these studies have examined the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying trace associative learning processes using classical conditioning paradigms in which the association takes place within the timescale of msec to sec  . However , evolution has produced other type  of associative learning , wherein the CS and US can be experienced several minutes to hours apart . For example , the inter-time-interval  between the CS  and the US  in the conditioned taste aversion  paradigm can last for hours  . Here , we attempted to understand the mechanisms that enable the taste memory trace to be associated with visceral information after such a long time . In order to evaluate the effect of the ITI between taste and malaise in CTA learning  quantitatively and qualitatively , we conducted a behavioral experiment , in which rats were presented with a novel taste  and later were i . injected with lithium chloride  at increasing time points ranging between 1 hr and 20 hr  . In agreement with previous findings , we found that CTA was acquired after separating the taste and malaise stimuli for up to 8 hr but not 20 hr   . Interestingly , non-parametric cluster analysis revealed that there are two different clusters among 1–8 hr ITI-CTAs: 1–3 hr  and 4–8 hr  ITI-CTAs  . Temporal boundaries of taste memory trace for the association with malaise in CTA . 1–8 hr ITI-CTA groups but not 20 hr ITI-CTA group showed significantly higher aversion index  compared to control group . There are two different clusters among 1–8 hr ITI-CTA groups: short-trace  and long-trace  . 1–3 hr ITI-CTA groups exhibited a similar pattern of extinction and reached AI similar to control group by Test7 whereas 4–8 hr ITI-CTA groups extinguished CTA memory by Test4 . Box-whisker plots showing test1 results following ITI-CTA conditioning with weak US  . 1 hr , 2 hr , 3 hr , 4 hr but not 5 hr ITI-CTA groups were significantly different from the control group . Top: schematic representation of the CTA conditioning and reverse conditioning trials . In reverse conditioning the novel taste was presented 1 h after the LiCl injection . Bottom: reverse conditioning group did not show CTA . Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric ANOVA  , cluster analysis  , Mann-Whitney test  and Friedman's non-parametric repeated measures ANOVA  and independent samples t-test  were conducted to analyse the group effect . Attenuation of taste neophobia . The control group from the main Figure 1B , which exhibited taste aversion of about 36% upon the second taste encounter  , demonstrated less aversion on the third taste encounter  . Rats demonstrated high aversion to a novel palatable taste upon sampling for the first time . , reluctance to consume a novel taste due to lack of knowledge regarding the post-ingestive consequences . However , rats exhibited less aversion upon the second and third encounter , demonstrating that taste preference is an adaptive process . Each line represents a rat and a dotted line is a mean of the group ( one way ANOVA; F  = 27 . As expected , the CTA control group upon Test1  did not differ from Test2 of attenuation of neophobia group ( T  = 0 . 352 ) , indicating that ingesting a taste only once is not sufficient to determine that the taste is completely safe to consume and thus rats need to ingest the same taste at least three times to form a memory that the taste is completely safe . 005 Consistent with the retrieval results , long-trace  CTA groups exhibited a similar faster CTA extinction pattern , whereas short-trace  CTAs exhibited a slower extinction . The long-trace CTAs were not different from an unpaired control group by extinction day4 , in comparison with day7 aversion index  in short-trace CTAs  . Reverse conditioning did not lead to taste aversion  , which indicates the importance of temporal order between taste and nausea in CTA learning . The strength of an association can be affected by ITI between CS and US or by the strength of US . We thus conducted an ITI-CTA with a weak US  to test whether weaker CTA learning can be acquired when an association is made during the short-  but not the long-trace  intervals . We found that CTA was formed following the short-trace intervals , and interestingly , also following a 4 hr but not 5 hr trace interval . Together these results suggest that there is a shift in the associability of the taste memory trace at around 3–4 hr after exposure to the taste stimulus  . The long ITI between CS and US in CTA is reasonable from physiological , ecological , and evolutionary perspectives . The minutes to hours process of digestion followed by absorption may dictate the animal to associate between the taste consumed and its delayed physiological consequences  . It is possible that depending on the ITI there are two taste memory traces  : the first one is strong , but lasts for approximately 3 hr  , whereas the second trace is weak , but lasts for up to 8 hr  . This observation is further supported by the previous demonstration that micro-injection of the protein synthesis inhibitor , anisomycin , into the insular cortex  within 3 hr but not 4 hr after the taste inhibits associative taste memory in the latent inhibition of CTA paradigm  . It is therefore plausible to hypothesize that the underlying biological mechanism  of taste-nausea association may differ between short- and long-trace CTAs . Given ample evidence that novel taste experience impacts the phospho-proteome in the IC  and the idea that calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II  has the potential to store information  , we aimed to test the possibility that CaMKIIα , through auto-phosphorylation  , maintains the taste memory trace in the IC . Moreover , we were encouraged by the previous report that showed that novel taste consumption increases CaMKIIα expression in the IC  . Therefore , we followed up this finding and expanded it by measuring the phosphorylation/expression levels of CaMKIIα in the IC for up to 8 hr after the consumption of novel taste . We subjected IC samples of rats exposed to either water or novel taste solution  to biochemical fractionation  , and examined the phosphorylation and expression levels of CaMKIIα in the crude synaptosomal fraction  by Western-blotting analysis  . We replicated the finding from the previous report  , that 15 min after novel taste consumption , CaMKIIα expression is increased in the IC . Interestingly , we observed that the T286 phosphorylation of CaMKIIα  was increased in the P2-fraction 30 min following novel taste consumption , persisting for up to 3 hr  , but not 5 or 8 hr afterwards  . Novel taste experience induces CaMKIIα phosphorylation in the IC in an NMDAR-dependent manner . Experimental design depicting biochemical fractionation from the IC after behavioral training . Rats were sacrificed at the indicated time points after exposure to either water or novel taste solution . Representative pT286CaMKIIα , pT305CaMKIIα , and total CaMKIIα immunoblots from P2-fractions of water  and novel taste  groups are shown . Novel taste groups showed increased pT286CaMKIIα levels in the IC synaptosomal fraction at 0 . 5 , 1 , and 3 hr compared to water controls . 5 and 8 hr groups showed no difference in pT286CaMKIIα levels between water and novel taste groups . There was no difference in  pT305CaMKIIα and  total CaMKIIα levels between water and novel taste groups at any time point . Rats were injected with saline or MK801 30 min before they were exposed to water or novel taste , and 1 hr later were sacrificed and IC was extracted . Novel taste group injected with saline showed increased pT286CaMKIIα compared to water group . MK801-injected groups which received novel taste did not differ from the water group but expressed significantly less phosphorylated CaMKIIα  than novel taste group injected with saline . There was no difference in  pT305CaMKIIα and  total CaMKIIα levels between any groups . Independent samples t-test  and one way ANOVA  were conducted to analyse the group effect . Immunoblots showing the expression patterns of GluA1 , pT286CaMKIIα , pT305CaMKIIα , CaMKIIα in H , P1 , P2 , P3 , LP1 , LP2 , and S3 fractions . Thus , P2 fraction was further used for the expression analysis of the aforementioned proteins after the rats were exposed to either water or novel taste solution . W and N denote water and novel taste , respectively . Total amount of CaMKIIα in the synaptoneurosomal fractions from IC is increased 15 min following novel taste learning . 25 min after the rats were exposed to water or novel taste , they were sacrificed , and immunoblot analysis was conducted using the P2 fraction . Consistent with a previous report  , novel taste experience significantly increased total CaMKIIα compared to water controls ( T  = -2 . There was a non-significant trend in the novel taste group in pT286CaMKIIα ( T  = -1 . 17 ) and pT305CaMKIIα did not differ between water and novel taste groups ( T  = -0 . Immunoblots of pT286CaMKIIα , pT305CaMKIIα , CaMKIIα , and β-Tubulin from P2-fraction for Figure 2I–K are shown . 010 There was no significant difference in T305 phosphorylation of CaMKIIα  between water control and novel taste groups at any time point  . Intriguingly , the temporal dynamics of pT286CaMKIIα in the IC after the novel taste experience corresponds to the short-trace timescale , indicating a possible link between CaMKIIα and short-trace CTA learning . It is possible that NMDAR activation is upstream to CaMKIIα phosphorylation , because activation of NMDAR in the IC is crucial for taste-malaise association and NMDAR regulates CaMKIIα phosphorylation  . Therefore , we examined if NMDAR activation is necessary for novel taste-dependent CaMKIIα activation . Indeed , novel taste experience-induced phosphorylation of T286CaMKIIα is NMDAR-dependent , since i . injection of the NMDAR antagonist , MK801  , 30 min before novel taste learning precluded phosphorylation of T286CaMKIIα in the IC  . pT305CaMKIIα and total CaMKIIα levels did not differ among the water group injected with saline and the novel taste groups injected with either saline or MK801  . Taste memory trace can persist for an association , and at the very same time can undergo sensory information processing to form incidental taste learning  . Therefore , the correlation between the consumption of novel taste and NMDAR-dependent T286CaMKIIα phosphorylation can serve the taste memory trace for an association , and/or incidental taste memory . In order to dissociate between these possibilities , we investigated the role of NMDAR and CaMKIIα in non-associative incidental and associative CTA learning by micro-infusing the NMDAR antagonist APV  or CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 ( 0 . 3 nM/1 μl/ hemisphere  ) bilaterally into the IC . Consistent with the literature , our data reveal that NDMAR in the IC is dispensable for incidental taste learning but necessary for CTA learning   . We also found that CaMKIIα in the IC is dispensable for incidental taste learning but necessary for CTA learning  . Given that NMDAR-dependent T286CaMKIIα phosphorylation in the IC is required specifically for CTA , we sought to test whether NMDAR-CaMKIIα signaling in the IC maintains the taste memory trace for the association with the US by infusing the respective antagonist or inhibitor into the IC at various time points between the CS and US . We micro-injected the NMDAR antagonist into the IC 25 min from the beginning of the taste consumption in 1 hr ITI-CTA conditioning with a weak US and observed an attenuated CTA memory , consistent with a previous report in which a strong US was administered   . Intriguingly , we did not observe any effect when we made a similar manipulation in the IC 4 hr after the taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning with a strong US  . Next , we micro-injected CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 or Tat control  into the IC 25 min from the beginning of the taste consumption in short-trace 3 hr ITI-CTA conditioning , and observed an attenuated CTA memory  . We micro-injected TatCN21 into the IC 25 min  from the beginning of the taste consumption in the long-trace 5 h ITI-CTA conditioning , and also observed an attenuated CTA memory  . However , consistent with the temporal dynamics of CaMKIIα phosphorylation in the IC , CaMKIIα inhibition in the IC 4 h after the taste consumption in the long-trace 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning had no effect on CTA memory  . The requirement of CaMKIIα in the IC for associative learning of CTA is a function of time . Infusion of CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 25 min after the taste consumption in 3 hr ITI-CTA conditioning attenuated the CTA memory . Infusion of CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 25 min after the taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning attenuated the CTA memory . Infusion of CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 4 hr after the taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning had no effect on CTA memory . TatCN21 micro-infusion 2 hr after the consumption of taste in 3 hr ITI-CTA training did not affect the CTA memory . A series of coronal sections from a representative rat brain , showing the cannula placement in the rostro-caudal planes  and the corresponding coronal sections of rat brain atlas images  . Abbreviations; AI-agranular insular cortex , DI-disgranular insular cortex , GI-granular insular cortex . Independent samples t-test was conducted to analyse the group effect . NMDAR and CaMKIIα in the IC are required for associative but not for incidental taste learning . We investigated whether CaMKIIα and its upstream NMDAR in the IC are required for associative CTA and/or incidental taste learning . Infusion of CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 30 min before 1 hr ITI-CTA conditioning disrupted CTA memory . Infusion of NMDAR antagonist APV  into the IC 30 min before 1 hr ITI-CTA conditioning disrupted CTA . TatCN21 infusion 30 min before novel taste consumption did not affect the incidental taste memory . APV infusion 30 min before novel taste consumption did not affect the incidental taste memory . The effect of CaMKIIα inhibitor on CTA learning is a function of time and concentration of TatCN21 . Rats underwent CTA conditioning 8 days after TatCN21 microinjection into the IC . TatCN21  did not have an effect on CTA learning and memory ( n=Tatcont , 4; TatCN21 , 5; T  = 0 . Microinjection of low concentration of TatCN21  into the IC 30 min before 1 hr ITI-CTA conditioning did not have an effect on CTA learning ( n = Tatcont , 4; TatCN21 , 5; T  = 1 . CaMKIIα inhibition 25 min after taste consumption did not have an effect on the non-associative form of incidental taste memory ( n = Tatcont , 14; TatCN21  , 14; T  = 0 . NMDAR in the IC plays a time-dependent role in CTA learning . Microinjection of NMDAR antagonist , APV , into the IC 25 min after the consumption of novel taste in 1 hr ITI-CTA conditioning with US attenuated CTA memory ( T  = 2 . APV micro-infusion 4 hr after the taste in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning did not affect the CTA memory ( T  = 1 . CaMKIIα in the IC does not affect the learned safety about the taste . In order to test the possibility that the effects produced by TatCN21 in Figures 3B , C are attributable to an increase in the short term learning about the safety of the taste rather than disruption in taste-LiCl association , we conducted a behavioral experiment in which rats were presented with a novel taste and at various time intervals ranging from 1–8 hr were tested for their preference to the pre-exposed taste . We later investigated whether short-term taste memory is amenable to perturbation of CaMKIIα in the IC . Following habituation rats were exposed to novel taste and 1 , 3 , 5 , and 8 hr later they were subjected to a taste choice test and the aversion index was calculated . Interestingly , 5 and 8 hr groups exhibited less aversion and were significantly lower than both 1 hr and naïve preference  groups ( Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA; n = 11 rats/group; X2  = 25 . 0001; Post-hoc test compared to NP group , 1 hr , p=0 . Post-hoc test compared to 1 hr group; 3 hr , p=0 . The regression line between elapsed time after taste pre-exposure and aversion index , which is statistically significant , is shown  . The decreased AI to the pre-exposed taste as shown in A and B cannot be attributed to the difference in the fluid consumption as revealed by the negative relationship between saccharin and water consumption with the preference index ( MANOVA; Pillai's trace , general interaction; F  = 9 . 0001; Post-hoc Tukey's HSD , compared to naïve preference group , 1 hr , p= 0 . 0001; compared to 1 hr group , 3 hr , p= 0 . 0001; Post-hoc Tukey's HSD , compared to naïve preference group , 1 hr , p= 0 . 0001; compared to 1 hr group , 3 hr , p=0 . Infusion of CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 30 min before taste consumption had no effect on the short term incidental taste memory ( t-test; n = Tatcont , 9 and TatCN21 , 8; T  = 0 . 016 These results indicate that novel taste consumption induces NMDAR-dependent T286CaMKIIα phosphorylation in the IC , which is necessary for maintaining the short taste memory trace for the association with visceral information . If this is the case , then inhibiting CaMKII 2 hr after novel taste consumption in 3 hr ITI-CTA should still impede the CS-US association . To answer this , we performed a 3 hr ITI-CTA experiment in which we micro-infused CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 2 hr after the taste consumption , and administered the LiCl 1 hr later . It is thus more likely that T286CaMKIIα phosphorylation in the IC is necessary for the development of the taste memory trace for the association and downstream target/s play a vital role in maintaining the taste memory trace for the CS-US association . CaMKII-dependent modulation of GluA1-containing AMPA receptors and GluN2B-containing NMDARs has been implicated in different forms of learning , memory and synaptic plasticity , and can induce changes in synaptic strength  . Therefore , we investigated whether pT286CaMKIIα modulates GluA1 and/or GluN2B phosphorylation/expression in the IC after novel taste experience . Indeed , experiencing novel taste increased total GluA1 but not pS831GluA1 or pS1303GluN2B in the synaptosomal fraction in the IC 1 hr later  . Linear regression analysis revealed a positive correlation between pT286CaMKIIα and GluA1 expression in animals sampling novel taste  . The requirement of CaMKIIα-dependent GluA1 expression in the IC for the associative process of CTA is a function of time . 1 hr after novel taste consumption total GluA1 but not pS831GluA1 was increased in the P2-fraction . pT286CaMKIIα was positively correlated with GluA1 levels in the novel taste group but not in the water group . Novel taste-dependent increased GluA1 expression in the IC was precluded by TatCN21 microinjection into the IC . CNQX microinjection into the IC 1 hr after the taste consumption in 3 hr ITI-CTA conditioning attenuated the CTA memory . CNQX infusion into the IC 2 hr after the consumption of taste in 3 hr ITI-CTA training attenuated CTA memory . CNQX microinjection into the IC 1 hr after taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning attenuated the CTA memory . CNQX application 4 hr after taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning had no effect on CTA memory . Independent samples t-test  was conducted to analyse the group effect . Pearson’s correlation was used to analyse the association between the association between GluA1 and pT286CaMKIIα  . Novel taste experience leads to an increase in Y1472 but not S1303 phosphorylation of GluN2B . Representative immunoblots of pY1472GluN2B , pS1303GluN2B , and GluN2B . Similarly to main Figure 3C , 1 hr after the rats were exposed to water or novel taste , they were sacrificed , and immunoblot analysis was conducted using the P2-fraction . Consistent with a previous report  , novel taste experience significantly increased pY1472GluN2B compared to water controls ( T  = -2 . Interestingly , however , pS1303GluN2B phosphorylation , which is known to be regulated by CaMKIIα , was not different from water and novel taste groups ( T  = -1 . Also , total GluN2B was not different between water and novel taste groups ( T  = -0 . All the original  GluA1 and  pS831GluA1 immunoblots for Figure 4A are shown . All original immunoblots of GluA1 and β-Tubulin for Figure 4C are shown . Water + Tatcont and novel taste + Tatcont samples from this experiment were combined to generate Figure 4B . Novel taste experience-induced GluA1 in the IC is NMDAR-dependent . Novel taste group injected with saline showed increased GluA1 expression levels compared to water group . MK801  injected groups which received novel taste did not differ from the water group , but expressed significantly lower levels of GluA1 than novel taste group injected with saline , suggesting that NMDAR is upstream to increased GluA1 after the novel taste experience ( n = 14/group; one way ANOVA; F  = 6 . 005; post-hoc LSD; water + saline Vs novel taste + saline p=0 . 002 , novel taste + saline Vs novel taste + MK801 p=0 . 009 and water + saline Vs novel taste + MK801 p=0 . AMPAR in the IC is dispensable for incidental taste learning . Micro-infusion of AMPAR antagonist CNQX 30 min before the taste learning did not affect the incidental form of the appetitive taste memory ( T  = 0 . Schematic representation of the conceptual parallel taste-memory trace model . When an animal feels no negative visceral consequence after eating a novel taste , it forms a long term safe taste memory . However , when it encounters nausea , it forms an associative aversive taste memory  . The strength of the CS or the US or the time lapse between the two or other sensory cues at the time of learning can affect the formation of the internal representation . Here , we focused on the variable of ITI between the CS and US . In the present model we aim to explain the temporal constraints and biological mechanisms underlying trace-CTA . 14M LiCl as strong US we found that the novel taste memory trace is generated after the consumption of novel taste , and lasts for approximately 8 hr to associate with its outcome . The associability of the taste memory trace changes at around 4 hr after the novel taste consumption with the US . Taken together , the behavioral readout with different ITIs and pharmacological manipulations of the NMDAR-CaMKIIα-GluA1 axis in the IC using different ITI-CTA training , we reason that there are two parallel taste memory traces with different underlying mechanisms: one that is robust but decays quickly  and the second trace , which is weak but lasts longer  . X-axis depicts the time in hours between the taste and malaise . Y-axis indicates the strength of the associable taste memory trace . It is possible that the weak taste-memory trace is parallel to that of the strong taste-memory trace or independent of the strong trace . Given our findings that different pharmacological manipulations in the insular cortex  affect the associability of the taste-memory trace when applied only during the strong-trace timescale but not in the weak taste-memory trace timescale  , we suggest that the weak-taste memory trace is parallel to that of the strong one . We propose a multiple memory systems/trace theory , which posits that CTA learning may engage multiple memory systems to take part in the long-trace associative process and that after experiencing the taste , the NMDA receptor-dependent CaMKIIα and GluA1 pathway in the insular cortex plays a critical role only during the short-trace , whereas NMDA receptors in the hippocampus play a crucial role as the time increases  , for the association with the US . Note that the background information/experience exists right from the CS stimulus experience but arguably they accumulate more with time . 023 To examine whether pT286CaMKIIα is required for the increased GluA1 expression in the P2-fraction after the taste consumption , we micro-infused CaMKIIα inhibitor TatCN21 into the IC 30 min before novel taste exposure and measured GluA1 expression 1 hr later . TatCN21 application reduced novel taste experience-dependent GluA1 expression in the P2-fraction  . Moreover , NMDAR antagonist MK801 injection 30 min before the novel taste also reduced GluA1 expression  , indicating that NMDAR- and CaMKIIα-dependent increased synaptic expression of GluA1 in the IC mediates short-trace taste memory for the association with the US . If indeed GluA1 in the IC mediates the taste memory trace for the association , we hypothesized that pharmacological inhibition of AMPAR following taste experience would interfere with the association with the US . Microinjection of AMPAR antagonist , CNQX ,   into the IC 1 hr after the taste consumption in short-trace 3 hr ITI-CTA conditioning attenuated the CTA memory  . Interestingly , CNQX micro-injection into the IC 2 hr after the taste consumption in 3 hr ITI-CTA learning also attenuated CTA memory  . Furthermore , microinjection of CNQX into the IC 1 hr  after the taste consumption in long-trace 5 hr ITI-CTA conditioning also attenuated the CTA memory  . However , in accordance with the timescale of short-trace and CaMKIIα-GluA1 activation , we found that CNQX micro-injection 4 hr after novel taste consumption in 5 hr ITI-CTA had no effect on CTA  . It is intriguing that the inhibition of CaMKIIα or AMPAR in the IC during short-trace timescale attenuated short-trace CTA memory . In addition , inhibition of the CaMKIIα-GluA1 pathway during short-trace timescale also attenuated long-trace CTA . However , long-trace CTA was not affected when CaMKIIα-GluA1 pathway in the IC was left intact for 3 hr . Together , these data reveal that there are two parallel taste memory traces which are subserved by different mechanisms: one that is robust but decays quickly , and another which is weak but lasts longer . It is important to note that NMDAR-CaMKIIα-AMPAR in the IC are not necessary for incidental taste learning and memory , whereas muscarinic receptors are critical for incidental taste learning  . It is interesting that different molecular mechanisms take place in the same cortex , the insular cortex , to mediate associative and non-associative taste learning and memory . We should emphasize that different pharmacological manipulation  in the IC when applied within 3 hr after the CS presentation only modifies but not completely erases the CTA memory . It is also noteworthy that several previous reports demonstrate that pharmacological perturbations in the IC during CTA conditioning only partially disrupt CTA memory , and that the disrupted CTA appears similar to long-trace CTA memory  . Thus , it is possible that over time , there is a transformation from the taste memory trace dominance  and IC dependency to multiple memory traces  due to the multi-channeled background experience , e , g . Such transformation , which involves multiple memory traces , for instance , episodic memory trace  , may result in a wider distribution and processing of the taste memory trace with the passage of time  . Since the initial demonstration of CTA by Garcia  , several studies have proposed that the reduced aversion index followed by the increased interval between the taste and malaise in CTA conditioning could be attributed to  the learned safety about the taste ,  accumulating background interference , and  taste memory trace decay  . First , in support of the learned safety theory , and in line with the previous reports , we found that animals exhibit higher preference to the taste hours following the first-time experience   . Second , with regards to background interference theory , we propose that the multi-channeled background information can be viewed as episodic components and that , for example , the hippocampus is critical to assimilate the episodic component in CTA  . Third , in line with the trace decay theory , our findings demonstrate that the robust short-trace fades within 3 hr in the IC but the long-trace , which is weak , lasts longer . Moreover , the non-linear decay of the short trace suggests that it dominates over the long trace , so that and when the former fades , the latter is revealed  . We propose a multiple memory trace theory , wherein we suggest that CTA learning may engage multiple memory systems to take part in the long-trace associative process and that after experiencing the taste , the IC plays a critical role during short-trace  . Although multiple lines of evidence support that NMDAR-CaMKII-AMPAR signaling in the IC plays a crucial role in maintaining the short-trace for the association with the US , we do not rule out the possibility that other molecular mechanisms in the IC may participate as well in the long-trace CTA . For instance , protein acetylation , phosphorylation , and induction of proteins were observed in the IC many hours following novel taste consumption , and it is possible that these correlative molecular changes  may contribute to the long-trace CTA  . Conceptually , on the one hand , our short-trace CTA complies with the commonly held assumption of neuroscience theories of associative learning that convergence of CS and US information onto particular cells/circuits leads to changes in synaptic strength at the synapses mediating the CS input to those commonly activated cells/circuit and that it underlies association formation , i . On the other hand , the long-trace CTA challenges this assumption , and it is possible that because of the multi-channeled background information with an increasing time interval as discussed above , homeostatic plasticity may play a crucial role to encode multiple memory traces via coordinating several brain structures such as the IC , amygdala , hippocampus , prefrontal cortices in the long-trace CTA  . Overall , our data suggest that the neural mechanisms of associative learning can be an assimilation of multiple memory traces when the two relevant experiences are separated in time . They were maintained at the University of Haifa in a temperature controlled  animal core facility under a 12 hr light/12 hr dark cycle  . Rats were group housed  in home cages with food and water ad libitum , and were individually housed before the start of the experiments . Comparisons between data of two independent groups were analyzed by unpaired Student's t test and the differences between the variances of groups were corrected following Levene’s test for equality of variances . Follow-up analyses were conducted using Fisher’s least significant difference , Bonferoni , and independent sample t-tests , when significant main effects or interactions were detected . Non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test , Friedman's test , and Mann Whitney U test were conducted when the data were non-normally distributed . Pearson’s correlation was conducted to analyze the association between GluA1 and pT286CaMKIIα . "
"Under laboratory conditions , the virophage mavirus integrates into the nuclear genome of the marine flagellate Cafeteria burkhardae and reactivates upon superinfection with the giant virus CroV . These endogenous mavirus-like elements  separated into eight types based on GC-content , nucleotide similarity , and coding potential and carried diverse promoter motifs implicating interactions with different giant viruses . Between host strains , some EMALE insertion loci were conserved indicating ancient integration events , whereas the majority of insertion sites were unique to a given host strain suggesting that EMALEs are active and mobile . Viruses of the family Lavidaviridae , commonly known as virophages , depend for their replication on giant DNA viruses of the family Mimiviridae and can parasitize them during coinfection of a suitable protist host  . We therefore tested the integration capacity of mavirus using the cultured protist Cafeteria burkhardae  and found that mavirus integrates efficiently into the nuclear host genome  . To identify endogenous virophages , we combined sequence similarity searches against known virophage genomes with genomic screening for GC-content anomalies . Each element had at least one open reading frame  with a top blastp hit to a mavirus protein , with no elements bearing close resemblance to Sputnik or other virophages outside the genus Mavirus . These cases arise from incomplete assembly rather than from biological truncations , since the assembly algorithm probably terminated due to the presence of multiple identical or highly similar EMALEs within the same host genome – a well-known issue for repetitive sequences  . burkhardae strain BVI contained nearly twice as many EMALEs as any of the other strains , where we found 27–29 elements per genome  . Therefore , the assemblies seem to provide a good representation of the actual contribution of EMALEs to the overall host genomes . burkhardae EMALEs can thus be roughly separated into low-GC and mid-GC groups . Based on the similarity patterns within each block , we further distinguish eight EMALE types , with low-GC EMALEs comprising types 1–4 and mid-GC EMALEs comprising types 5–8  . Representative genome diagrams for each EMALE type are shown in Figure 3 , for a schematic of all 33 complete EMALEs , see Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . According to this classification scheme , the reference mavirus strain Spezl falls within type 4 of the low-GC EMALEs  . The codon and amino acid composition of EMALE genes clearly correlated with the overall GC-content of the EMALE genomes  . For each encoded amino acid , we observed a strong shift toward synonymous codons reflecting the overall GC trend , and across amino acids , we observed a shift from those encoded by high-GC codons to those encoded by low-GC codons in low-GC EMALEs and vice versa . The virion morphogenesis module in EMALE types 1 and 3–7 consists of the canonical virophage core genes corresponding to MCP , PEN , ATPase , and PRO proteins . Type 2 EMALEs likely encode a different set of capsid genes as discussed below , and the truncated EMALE type 8 lacks recognizable morphogenesis genes . Another highly conserved gene in EMALE types 1 and 3–7 is MV14 , which is always found immediately upstream of the ATPase  and codes for a protein of unknown function that is part of the mavirus virion  . Low-GC EMALEs encode a mavirus-related primase/helicase and protein-primed family B DNA polymerase   . Mid-GC EMALEs , on the other hand , lack the pPolB gene and feature a longer primase/helicase ORF that may include a DNA polymerase domain similar to the helicase-polymerase fusion genes described in PLVs  . Other mavirus genes frequently found in EMALEs include MV19  , and two genes of unknown function , MV08 and MV12 . Interestingly , all mid-GC EMALEs encode a predicted tyrosine recombinase  in addition to the rve-INT and thus possess two predicted enzymes for genome integration . Notable genes unique to one EMALE type include a putative DNA methylase and a ribonucleotide reductase small subunit gene found in EMALE07 . The Tlr6F protein encoded by EMALE types 1 + 2 is present in diverse MGEs , including other virophages , PLVs , and large DNA viruses of the phylum Nucleocytoviricota  . In general , genes were syntenic between EMALEs of the same type , whereas gene order was poorly conserved among EMALEs of different types , with the following exceptions: MCP was always preceded by PEN , and ATPase was always preceded by MV14 , whereas the MV14-ATPase-PRO-PEN-MCP morphogenesis gene order as seen in mavirus was present only in EMALE types 4–7 . EMALE02 represents an interesting case , as it shares 6–7 kb of its 5’ part  with EMALE01 , while the remaining 11 kb are not closely related to other EMALEs or virophages  . EMALE02 may thus be the result of a recombination event that exchanged the canonical virophage morphogenesis module of EMALE01 with capsid genes of a PLV  . To validate our classification scheme for EMALEs and to place them in a phylogenetic context to other virophages , we used maximum likelihood reconstruction on the core proteins MCP , PEN , ATPase , and PRO , as well as on rve-INT  . In the resulting phylogenetic trees , EMALE core proteins formed monophyletic clades with mavirus and related sequences from environmental samples , thus significantly expanding the known diversity of the genus Mavirus . The environmental sequences that clustered with EMALE core proteins include a single amplified genome  from an uncultured chrysophyte  , the metagenomic Ace Lake Mavirus   , and four additional metagenomes that were identified in a global survey of virophage sequences  . Within the Mavirus clade , EMALEs of a given type were monophyletic for each of the four core proteins , which corroborates their dot plot-based classification . A comparison of clade topologies revealed that even within the conserved morphogenesis module , individual proteins differed with regard to their neighboring clades , and low-GC and mid-GC EMALEs did not cluster separately from each other . These observations could suggest that the morphogenesis modules of different EMALE types diversified simultaneously and that adaptation of GC-content may occur rather quickly . In contrast , phylogenetic analysis of rve-INT proteins revealed separate clades for low-GC and mid-GC EMALEs  . Notably , the rve-INT genes of low-GC EMALEs were located near the 5’ end of the genomes , whereas in mid-GC EMALEs , they were located near the 3’ end  . These observations suggest that EMALEs encode two different rve-INT versions , one specific for low-GC EMALEs that co-occurs with the pPolB and a shorter primase/helicase ORF , and one specific for mid-GC EMALEs that co-occurs with a longer primase/helicase ORF . EMALEs encode several different versions of primase/helicase genes with a degree of amino acid divergence that precluded their inclusion in a single multiple sequence alignment . The YR proteins encoded by EMALE types 5–8 formed a monophyletic clade and were part of a larger group of recombinases that included virophages from freshwater metagenomes , as well as microalgae and algal nucleocytoviruses  . burkhardae strains displayed distinct EMALE signatures: strain BVI had the highest number of virophage elements with 13 complete and 42 partial EMALEs , whereas the other three strains had 6–7 complete and 20–22 partial EMALEs each  . EMALE types 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 were present in every host strain , EMALE07 was found in all strains except Cflag , and EMALE types 2 and 8 were detected in strains BVI and E4-10 only . We found no evidence for sequence-specific genome integration of EMALEs after inspecting the host DNA sequences that flanked EMALE integration sites , which confirms previous reports of mavirus integration  . To assess whether homologous EMALEs were found in identical loci in closely related host genomes , we conducted sequence similarity searches with the flanking regions of each of the 33 fully resolved EMALEs . Whenever these searches returned a homologous full or partial EMALE with at least one matching host flank , we considered the EMALE locus to be conserved in these host strains . In 11 cases , an EMALE insertion was conserved in at least two host strains  : three EMALE loci were shared by all four strains , four were shared by three strains , and another four were shared by two strains . Based on conserved EMALE loci , strains Cflag and RCC970 were most closely related with nine shared EMALE integrations , which is in line with phylogenetic and average nucleotide identity  analyses of these strains  . burkhardae genomes have ANIs of >99% and thus appear to differ mostly based on their content of EMALEs and other MGEs . The most parsimonious scenario for the origin of EMALEs that are located in identical loci in different host strains is that they derived from a single integration event . These elements may thus derive from relatively ancient integration events , whereas 18 of the 33 complete EMALEs represent integrations that were unique to a single host strain  . The genomic landscape around EMALE integration sites ranged from repeat-free flanking regions to complex host repeats  . Of the 29 different integration sites represented by the 33 fully resolved EMALEs , 18 were located near repetitive host DNA  . These repeats , in addition to EMALE TIRs , multiple copies of the same EMALE type , and the putative heterozygosity of EMALE insertions , occasionally caused assembly problems , as illustrated in Figure 3—figure supplement 3 . These data show that EMALE insertions may disrupt eukaryotic genes with potential negative consequences for the host . Based on genomic features such as coding potential , ORF integrity , and host distribution , most EMALEs appear to be active MGEs . With the exception of EMALE08 and EMALE02 , all endogenous Cafeteria virophages encode the canonical morphogenesis gene module consisting of MCP , PEN , ATPase , PRO , as well as MV14 . Therefore , all EMALE types except EMALE08 should be autonomous for virion formation . In addition , all EMALEs contain at least one predicted enzyme for genome integration , an rve-INT in EMALE types 1–7 and a YR in EMALE types 5–8 . EMALEs thus encode the enzymatic repertoire for colonizing new host genomes . Finally , the high variability of EMALE integration loci among otherwise closely related host strains strongly argues for ongoing colonization of natural Cafeteria populations by virophages . The genomic similarity to mavirus implies that EMALEs may also depend on a giant virus for activation and horizontal transmission . Shared regulatory sequences in virophages and their respective giant viruses suggest that the molecular basis of virophage activation lies in the recognition of virophage gene promoters by giant virus encoded transcription factors  . For all type 4 EMALEs , which include mavirus , we recovered the previously described mavirus promotor motif ‘TCTA’ , flanked by AT-rich regions . This motif corresponds to the conserved late gene promoter in CroV  , thus possibly indicating that all type 4 EMALEs could be reactivated by CroV or close relatives . EMALEs of other types lacked the ‘TCTA’ motif , but contained putative promoter sequences that may be compatible with different giant viruses  . Among the 33 fully resolved EMALEs are three truncated elements: Cflag_215 and RCC970_122  , and BVI_005   . Whereas most EMALE ORFs appeared to be intact , as judged by comparison with homologous genes on syntenic elements , several EMALEs contained fragmented ORFs  . For example , the MCP gene of EMALE01 RCC970_016B was split into three ORFs in the Illumina/PacBio assembly , whereas a single ORF was present in the corresponding Sanger assembly  . Ngaro YRs are related to putative transposons of bacteria and eukaryotes  , but bear no sequence similarity to the EMALE-encoded YRs . Whereas 91% of type 1 Ngaros were inserted in an EMALE , this was the case for only 14% and 8% of type 3 and type 4 Ngaros , respectively . All of these deletion variants , which we designate as type 2b , were located in host DNA , in contrast to 82% of the full-length type 2a Ngaros that were inserted in EMALEs  . Out of 20 Ngaro insertion sites with analyzable EMALE flanking regions  , 9 were located in intergenic regions , 7 in EMALE genes  , and 4 in TIRs  . Considering that intergenic regions comprise only 5–10% of an EMALE genome , we notice a significant bias  toward Ngaro integration in intergenic EMALE DNA , which may be caused either by purifying selection of deleterious Ngaro insertions or by a higher preference for Ngaro integration into EMALE intergenic regions , e . However , we found that Ngaro-containing EMALEs did not contain more fragmented genes than Ngaro-free EMALEs  . Whereas the biological properties of Ngaro retrotransposons and their influence on host-virus-virophage dynamics remain to be explored , the EMALE-Ngaro interactions appear to be convoluted . For instance , an EMALE03 genome in strain Cflag is interrupted by two adjacent Ngaro1 insertions , while the EMALE itself is located inside an Ngaro4 element  . Similar to mavirus , these EMALEs could potentially reactivate and replicate in the presence of a compatible giant virus . Mavirus is proposed to act as an adaptive defense system against CroV in Cafeteria populations  , and our findings suggest that different types of EMALEs may respond to different giant viruses infecting Cafeteria . The assortment of endogenous virophages in a given host genome may thus reflect the giant virus infection history of that population  . Some EMALEs are present in orthologous genomic loci in two or more host strains and likely date back to the common ancestor of these strains . However , at least half of the EMALE insertions are specific to a given host strain and may thus have been acquired relatively recently . Combined with the overall integrity of EMALEs and the conservation of integrase and capsid genes , these findings suggest that endogenous virophages in C . Similar to other MGEs , EMALEs are likely prone to various decay processes including pseudogenization , truncation , and recombination; however , the extent to which these mechanisms affect EMALE stability is currently unclear . We found three truncated EMALEs  , but these are not to be confused with the 105 partial EMALEs that resulted from computational limitations during sequence assembly of these multi-copy elements . Based on our EMALE identification approach  , we are quite confident that we have not missed more severely degraded EMALEs or more divergent virophages , except perhaps for hypothetical elements lacking any recognizable sequence similarity to annotated virophages and possessing a GC-content similar to that of the host genome . Overall , these observations raise the question of how balance between new virophage integrations and loss of existing EMALEs is achieved to prevent overload of the host genome with mobile DNA . Possible explanations include loss by homologous recombination , for example , between TIRs of the same or similar EMALEs , excision of EMALEs via host- or EMALE-encoded integrases or endonucleases , or mechanisms to limit the uptake of new elements . Given that multiple mavirus genome integrations per host cell can be observed within a period of days  and that virophage integration rates under natural infection conditions are likely to fall within similar timescales , we hypothesize that the majority of EMALE loss may occur before pseudogenization and degradation can take place . Similar to temperate bacteriophages , persistence in the proviral state may thus be an essential survival strategy for virophages , as underscored by the abundance of EMALEs in C . Although our sequencing and assembly strategy was specifically tailored to endogenous virophages and resolved 33 EMALEs in their host genomic context , dozens of EMALEs were only partially assembled , some may contain assembly errors  , and others may have been missed altogether . Surprisingly , we found that EMALEs were frequently interrupted by Ngaro retrotransposons , which revealed an additional level of nested parasitism in this microbial system . Cafeteria genomes contain four distinct Ngaro types with different affinities for EMALEs . Deletion of ORF1 in type 1 and type 2 Ngaros coincides with a decreased occurrence of these retrotransposons in EMALEs  . The putative Gag proteins of Cafeteria Ngaros may thus influence whether retrotransposon insertion occurs in an EMALE or in eukaryotic chromatin . So far , retrotransposons have not been described for giant DNA viruses or virophages; however , pandoravirus genomes contain DNA transposons  , and a class of 7 kb long DNA MGEs called transpovirons interacts with the particles and genomes of Acanthamoeba-infecting mimiviruses and their virophages , apparently without affecting viral replication  . It remains to be studied whether Ngaro retrotransposons use reactivated virophages or giant viruses as vehicles for horizontal transmission , and what effect retrotransposon insertion in EMALEs has on the fitness of the virophage , the host cell , and their associated giant viruses . We present evidence for recombination and gene exchange within EMALEs , and a previously unknown affiliation between virophages and YR retrotransposons . Our findings imply an important role for EMALEs in the ecology and evolution of bicosoecids and are in line with the hypothesis that endogenous virophages provide adaptive defense against giant viruses . For those low-GC regions we then computed DNA dot plots with Gepard  to detect TIRs , predicted ORFs with Artemis , manually curated them into gene calls , and also manually assigned functional annotations based on blastp searches against known virophages and public databases . Partial EMALEs that could not be fully assembled and were thus located on contig termini were identified based on sequence similarity to annotated virophages and EMALEs using the BLAST suite . We pre-trained one gene model for mid-GC and one for high-GC EMALEs , and called genes on those genomes separately . Retrotransposon insertions were first noticed in GC-content graphs as 6–7 kb long GC-rich sequences that interrupted AT-rich EMALEs . To quantify how much of each host genome is comprised of EMALEs and Ngaros , we applied two complementary strategies:  We compared the number of nucleotides annotated as EMALEs and Ngaros in the assemblies to the overall assembly sizes , and  we quantified the number of nucleotides in the PacBio reads that we could assign to either of the three fractions – host , EMALE , and Ngaro . To analyze possible correlations between EMALE GC-content and the codon composition of their genes , we counted codons of all genes of complete EMALEs with a custom Perl script and visualized their distribution relative to their GC-content with a custom R script . "
"Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy  is a muscular dystrophy caused by inefficient epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite array and somatic expression of the DUX4 retrogene . DUX4 is a double homeobox transcription factor that is normally expressed in the testis and causes apoptosis and FSHD when misexpressed in skeletal muscle . The mechanism  of DUX4 toxicity in muscle is incompletely understood . We report that DUX4-triggered proteolytic degradation of UPF1 , a central component of the nonsense-mediated decay  machinery , is associated with profound NMD inhibition , resulting in global accumulation of RNAs normally degraded as NMD substrates . DUX4 mRNA is itself degraded by NMD , such that inhibition of NMD by DUX4 protein stabilizes DUX4 mRNA through a double-negative feedback loop in FSHD muscle cells . This feedback loop illustrates an unexpected mode of autoregulatory behavior of a transcription factor , is consistent with ‘bursts’ of DUX4 expression in FSHD muscle , and has implications for FSHD pathogenesis . FSHD is caused by decreased epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite array in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4q , due to either D4Z4 repeat contractions  or mutations affecting trans-acting epigenetic regulators of the D4Z4 repeat such as SMCHD1  , which results in the misexpression of DUX4 mRNA in skeletal muscle and possibly other somatic tissues . DUX4 encodes a double homeobox transcription factor that activates germline genes and repetitive elements  and causes apoptosis and atrophic myotube formation when misexpressed in skeletal muscle  . DUX4 is expressed in only a small fraction of nuclei  , likely due to occasional ‘bursts’ of DUX4 expression . However , the mechanism  regulating DUX4 expression and toxicity remain incompletely understood . We previously ectopically expressed DUX4 in immortalized  and primary  myoblasts and used RNA-seq to identify coding genes , repetitive elements , and non-coding RNAs induced by DUX4  . Further analysis of this data showed that DUX4 expression also resulted in the increased abundance of many coding RNA isoforms containing premature translation termination codons upstream of splice junctions . Following DUX4 expression , however , many such predicted NMD substrates increased in abundance and in many cases became the predominant mRNA product of the parent gene . For example , an isoform of the SRSF3 gene containing a well-characterized NMD-inducing cassette exon  was present at low levels prior to DUX4 expression but became the dominant isoform thereafter in both 54-1 and MB135 cells  . RNA-seq read coverage of the SRSF3 gene in control and DUX4-expressing myoblasts . Bar plot illustrates the ratio NMD  /NMD  of transcripts from the NMD  and NMD  constructs . Isoform ratios of predicted NMD substrates generated by cassette exon alternative splicing in control and DUX4-expressing myoblasts  . Up/down arrows , percentages of predicted NMD substrates generated by alternative splicing exhibiting increases/decreases of ≥10% in isoform ratios in DUX4-expressing vs control cells . DUX4-induced NMD inhibition is not a side effect of DUX4 toxicity . Relative levels of the β-globin NMD substrate were twofold higher in DUX4-expressing vs control myoblasts , indicating that NMD is indeed compromised by DUX4  . We then determined how reduced NMD efficiency affected global levels of predicted NMD substrates . Restricting to cassette exon splicing events where one isoform , but not both , was a predicted NMD substrate , we found that ∼13% of such predicted NMD substrates increased following DUX4 expression , while ∼1 . Impaired NMD also caused accumulation of aberrant mRNAs resulting from mis-splicing or incomplete splicing , which are common byproducts of the stochastic nature of the splicing process  . We identified and quantified alternative splicing of annotated constitutive junctions , finding that ∼13% of such junctions exhibited increased aberrant splicing in DUX4-expressing vs control cells , while only ∼0 . DUX4 expression caused increased levels of predicted NMD substrates for all classes of splicing events in both 54-1 and MB135 cells  . These increases were generally more extreme in 54-1 than in MB135 cells , likely due to the ∼15-fold higher DUX4 expression achieved in 54-1 vs MB135 cells as well as the longer time period allowed for infection  . High levels of NMD substrates in DUX4-expressing cells were not simply a side effect of DUX4-induced apoptosis . TP53 knock-down  prevented apoptosis following DUX4 expression in normal myoblasts , confirming previous reports that DUX4 toxicity is p53-dependent  . However , TP53 KD did not prevent DUX4-induced NMD inhibition  . DUX4 could potentially inhibit NMD by transcriptionally repressing components of the NMD machinery . However , no UPF or SMG NMD factors exhibited decreased mRNA levels following DUX4 expression , and most were up-regulated by two- to fourfold  . This expression pattern was reminiscent of a recent report that mRNA levels of most NMD factors increase following the knock-down of UPF1 , encoding a central component of the NMD machinery  . Therefore , we hypothesized that UPF1 mRNA and protein levels might be decoupled in DUX4-expressing cells . We measured levels of UPF1 , which was not transcriptionally up-regulated in DUX4-expressing cells , and UPF3B and SMG7 , which were transcriptionally up-regulated in response to DUX4 . UPF1 protein levels were markedly lower in DUX4-expressing myoblasts than in control myoblasts , as were SMG7 levels , although to a lesser extent . In contrast , UPF3B levels were unaffected by DUX4 expression  . DUX4 destabilizes UPF1 via the proteasome . Relative mRNA levels of NMD factors in DUX4-expressing vs control myoblasts  . Immunoblot for NMD factors UPF1 , SMG7 , and UPF3B in DUX4-expressing and control myoblasts  at 36 hr post-infection . Immunoblot of total protein from a 36-hr time course of DUX4-expressing and control myoblasts  . Relative levels of transcripts produced from the NMD  and NMD  β-globin reporter plasmids . Immunoblot of total protein from DUX4-expressing and control myoblasts  treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG132  . 005 To determine whether decreased UPF1 temporally correlates with DUX4-induced inefficient NMD , we conducted a time course following DUX4 expression in myoblasts . DUX4 was robustly detectable 12–14 hr after lentiviral infection , coincident with the beginning of a sharp decrease in UPF1 levels  . NMD substrates produced from the β-globin reporter , as well as endogenously produced from the SRSF2 and SRSF3 genes , exhibited increased levels 12–14 hr after lentiviral expression  . The close temporal coupling between DUX4 protein production , decreased UPF1 levels , and increased levels of both endogenous and exogenous NMD substrates suggests that insufficient levels of UPF1—and perhaps additional NMD machinery components such as SMG7—may contribute to inefficient NMD in DUX4-expressing cells . The rapid decrease in UPF1 levels that we observed suggested that DUX4 might trigger UPF1 degradation . To test this , we treated DUX4-expressing or control myoblasts with MG132 to inhibit the proteasome . MG132 treatment restored normal UPF1 levels in DUX4-expressing myoblasts , while UPF1 levels in control myoblasts were unaffected  . As proteasome inhibition inhibits normal translation  and therefore NMD , we were unable to test whether the restoration of normal UPF1 levels by proteasomal inhibition rescued NMD . However , the close temporal relationship between the onset of decreased UPF1 levels and increased NMD substrates strongly suggests that UPF1 degradation contributes to NMD inhibition in DUX4-expressing cells . Both DUX4 isoforms encoding the full-length protein contain a constitutively spliced intron within their 3′ UTRs , rendering them likely NMD substrates  . 4% of normal protein levels , respectively , and differentiated these myoblasts to myotubes to stimulate DUX4 transcription . DUX4 mRNA was expressed at approximately fourfold higher levels in UPF1 KD vs control KD myotubes , as was ZSCAN4 mRNA , which is transcriptionally activated by DUX4  . DUX4 mRNA is an endogenous NMD substrate . Levels of DUX4 mRNA following control or UPF1 knock-down , measured 2 days after the initiation of myogenesis . Schematic of chimeric constructs encoding the β-globin opening reading frame  followed by the DUX4 3′ UTR  containing  or lacking  the second intron of DUX4's 3′ UTR  . Relative levels of transcripts from the Gl-DUX4-Intron2  and Gl-DUX4-Intron2  constructs following control or UFP1 KD in normal myoblasts  . Immunofluorescence with an antibody against DUX4 following control or UPF1 knock-down , measured 2 days after the initiation of myogenesis in FSHD1 cells  , which was prior to significant fusion . 006 We next sought to determine whether the intron-containing 3′ UTR of DUX4 contributed to the degradation of DUX4 mRNA by NMD . We created chimeric constructs containing the β-globin open reading frame followed by either the complete DUX4 3′ UTR or the DUX4 3′ UTR with the second intron removed  . Transcripts from the chimeric construct containing the complete DUX4 3′ UTR increased twofold following UPF1 KD in normal myoblasts—a substantial but smaller increase than we observed for the endogenous DUX4 mRNA , perhaps due to the chimeric nature of the β-globin + DUX4 3′ UTR construct—while transcripts from the construct lacking the second intron of the DUX4 3′ UTR increased only 1 . We conclude that the second intron of the DUX4 3′ UTR is important for NMD-induced degradation of the DUX4 mRNA  . DUX4 exhibits variegated expression in FSHD muscle cells , with only a few percent of nuclei detectable as DUX4+  . Therefore , augmented DUX4 expression following UPF1 KD in myotubes could be due to increases in DUX4 mRNA in nuclei that are already DUX4+ and/or increases in the fraction of DUX4+ nuclei . Immunostaining of FSHD myotubes revealed that the fraction of DUX4+ nuclei increased from 0 . Together , our data show that NMD is an endogenous suppressor of DUX4 mRNA levels that contributes to the very low and variegated expression of DUX4 , a characteristic feature of FSHD muscle cells . As DUX4 expression inhibits NMD and NMD degrades DUX4 mRNA , we hypothesized that DUX4 and the NMD pathway might participate in a double-negative feedback loop  . This feedback loop predicts that DUX4 will indirectly stabilize its own mRNA by inhibiting NMD . To test this , we ectopically expressed DUX4 in FSHD1 and FSHD2 myotubes and measured levels of endogenously transcribed DUX4 mRNA . Ectopic DUX4 expression led to an approximately fivefold increase in endogenously transcribed DUX4 mRNA levels  . We next tested whether DUX4's spliced 3′ UTR , which is important for NMD-mediated degradation of DUX4 mRNA , contributed to this increase . We transfected our chimeric β-globin + DUX4 3′ UTR reporters into normal myoblasts and ectopically expressed DUX4 . Levels of the NMD-susceptible construct containing the complete DUX4 3′ UTR increased 1 . 43-fold following ectopic DUX4 expression , while levels of the construct without the second intron of the DUX4 3′ UTR exhibited a more modest increase of 1 . As with the UPF1 KD experiments , the chimeric construct exhibited more modest effect sizes in these feedback loop experiments than we observed for the endogenous DUX4 mRNA itself . DUX4 and NMD form a feedback loop . Schematic of potential double-negative feedback loop between DUX4 and NMD , in which DUX4 inhibits NMD and NMD degrades DUX4 mRNA . Levels of endogenously transcribed DUX4 mRNA following control treatment or ectopic DUX4 expression , measured 2 days after the initiation of myogenesis in FSHD1  and FSHD2  cells . Relative levels of transcripts from the Gl-DUX4-Intron2  and Gl-DUX4-Intron2  constructs following control treatment or ectopic DUX4 expression in normal myoblasts  . Schematic of potential model of interactions between DUX4 and NMD in healthy  and FSHD  muscle cells . In healthy cells , DUX4 mRNA is efficiently degraded by NMD; in FSHD cells , DUX4 triggers proteolytic degradation of UPF1 and inhibits NMD , resulting in the accumulation of DUX4 mRNA and protein . 007 Together , our data demonstrate that the DUX4 3′ UTR targets DUX4 mRNA for NMD and that DUX4-mediated inhibition of NMD results in increased perdurance of the DUX4 mRNA as a possible mechanism of positive autoregulation  . It is unclear whether NMD-mediated autoregulation is intrinsic to normal DUX4 function or instead an abnormal consequence of inappropriate DUX4 expression in skeletal muscle . However , it is interesting to consider that this mechanism might contribute to the spreading of DUX4 expression between adjacent nuclei in a muscle fiber . Because muscle fibers contain arrays of closely spaced nuclei , the expression of DUX4 mRNA from one nucleus will distribute protein to the surrounding nuclei and induce a region of NMD inhibition . If one of the surrounding nuclei subsequently expresses DUX4 , then that mRNA would be unusually stable due to locally inefficient NMD , thereby facilitating the spread of DUX4 mRNA and protein throughout the fiber . The close temporal coupling between the onset of DUX4 expression , decreases in UPF1 protein , and increases in NMD substrates  strongly suggests that DUX4-mediated degradation of UPF1 contributes to DUX4-induced NMD inhibition . In the absence of a direct mechanistic link between UPF1 degradation and NMD inhibition , we were unable to determine whether insufficient UPF1 protein levels are primarily responsible for DUX4-induced NMD inhibition or instead merely one of the several contributing factors . Nonetheless , as we are unaware of other reports of physiological stimuli triggering rapid UPF1 protein degradation , our data suggest that UPF1 proteolysis constitutes a potential new regulator of cellular NMD efficiency . DUX4 may prove a useful system to gain insight into the biological relevance of this mechanism for altering NMD efficiency . We previously observed that many of the most up-regulated genes following DUX4 expression in normal myoblasts are involved in the ubiquitin–proteasome system , including numerous E3 ubiquitin ligases  . It is therefore tempting to speculate that DUX4-induced dysregulation of the ubiquitin–proteasome system is responsible for triggering UPF1 protein degradation . However , the precise mechanism by which DUX4 induces UPF1 proteolysis , and whether that mechanism is specific to the FSHD disease state , remains to be elucidated . DUX4-mediated inhibition of NMD may contribute to FSHD pathophysiology through both cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous mechanisms . Production of antigenic peptides could potentially enable even a small fraction of DUX4+ nuclei to induce widespread pathology within a muscle fiber . Directly detecting or measuring DUX4-induced NMD inhibition in FSHD muscle biopsies or in bulk populations of cultured FSHD muscle cells is not feasible due to the low fraction of DUX4+ nuclei present at any given time in the absence of ectopic DUX4 expression . 3% of the bulk population of cultured FSHD muscle cells  , changes in the ratios of NMD and non-NMD isoforms in these DUX4+ nuclei are swamped by the normal levels expressed by the vast majority of DUX4− nuclei . Single-cell assays of NMD efficiency are likely required to demonstrate DUX4-induced NMD inhibition in unperturbed patient cells . Consistent with the idea that NMD inhibition may contribute to DUX4 toxicity in skeletal muscle , it is interesting to note that the degree of NMD inhibition induced by DUX4 is comparable to that observed in previous studies involving genetic ablation of components of the NMD machinery . For example , a recent study of mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking Smg1 , which encodes a kinase responsible for phosphorylating UPF1 , found that 9% of predicted NMD substrates created by alternative splicing exhibited increased levels relative to wild-type cells  . In comparison , we found that 13% of such substrates were up-regulated following DUX4 expression  , suggesting that DUX4-induced NMD inhibition causes profoundly abnormal RNA metabolism . We used previously described lentiviral constructs expressing full-length DUX4 or GFP as a control  . At this MOI , >85% of myoblasts were DUX4+ or GFP+ . The β-globin NMD  and NMD  plasmids were previously published as pmCMV-Gl Norm and pmCMV-Gl 39Ter  . To measure DUX4-induced changes in NMD efficiency , cells were infected with lentiviral DUX4 or GFP 24 hr after transfection of the NMD reporters . For the DUX4 time course experiments , the NMD  and NMD  reporters were transfected along with phCMV-MUP using the SuperFect reagent  , and the lentiviral transduction was performed 12 hr post-transfection . Note that levels of endogenous DUX4 mRNA following ectopic DUX4 expression were measured with primers specific to the DUX4 mRNA's 3′ UTR  . To determine how UPF1 KD affected DUX4 expression , proliferating 54-2 or MB200 myoblasts were transfected with siUPF1 or siControl and switched to differentiation media 48 hr post-transfection . For the DUX4 time course and MG132 treatment , protein was extracted in parallel with the RNA from cells lysed in the TRIzol reagent . 54-1 cells transduced with DUX4 or GFP lentivirus were treated 16 hr post-infection with 10 µM proteasome inhibitor MG132  . For assaying apoptosis in DUX4-cells , Image-iT LIVE Red Poly Caspases Detection Kit  was used . The genomic locus of the DUX4 3′ UTR  was amplified from a genomic fragment harboring 2 . The DUX4 3′ UTR lacking the second intron was amplified from cDNA isolated from differentiated 54-2 cells  . Amplicons of the DUX4 3′ UTR containing or lacking the second intron were flanked with sequences overlapping the linearized β-globin NMD  backbone lacking the β-globin 3′ UTR . The NEB Gibson Assembly Cloning Kit was used to insert the DUX4 3′ UTR fragments into the linearized β-globin NMD  backbone  . "
"Here we report that in Arabidopsis , the NAC-type transcription factors ANAC044 and ANAC085 are required for DNA damage-induced G2 arrest . Under genotoxic stress conditions , ANAC044 and ANAC085 enhance protein accumulation of the R1R2R3-type Myb transcription factor  , which represses G2/M-specific genes . ANAC044/ANAC085-dependent accumulation of Rep-MYB and cell cycle arrest are also observed in the response to heat stress that causes G2 arrest , but not to osmotic stress that retards G1 progression . These results suggest that plants deploy the ANAC044/ANAC085-mediated signalling module as a hub which perceives distinct stress signals and leads to G2 arrest . In this study , we show that the NAC-type transcription factors ANAC044 and ANAC085 , which are direct targets of SOG1 , play a crucial role in causing G2 arrest in response to DNA damage . In the absence of ANAC044 or ANAC085 , Rep-MYB does not accumulate and cannot inhibit G2/M progression , and the plants exhibit DNA damage tolerance . ANAC044 and ANAC085 are not required for the induction of genes for DNA repair proteins or CDK inhibitors , but rather are engaged in accumulation of Rep-MYBs . Our data show that they also participate in heat stress-induced inhibition of G2 progression , suggesting that an ANAC044- and ANAC085-mediated pathway plays a central role in orchestrating stress-induced G2 arrest by controlling Rep-MYB accumulation . Recently we identified 146 Arabidopsis genes that are directly targeted by SOG1 , among which were the NAC transcription factors ANAC044 and ANAC085  . Phylogenetic analysis of NAC transcription factors indicated that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are the closest relatives of SOG1  ; indeed , in the NAC domain , which is essential for DNA binding , their amino acid similarity to SOG1 is 72 . A striking difference is that the C-terminal regions carrying the domain needed for transcriptional regulation are shorter in ANAC044 and ANAC085 than in SOG1 . Moreover , five serine-glutamine  motifs , which are targets for phosphorylation by ATM and ATR , are present towards the C terminus of SOG1 , but missing in ANAC044 and ANAC085  . We therefore predicted that ANAC044 and ANAC085 exert distinct functions in the DDR . The transcript levels of ANAC044 and ANAC085 increased soon after bleomycin treatment and reached maxima after 12 hr , indicating a rapid response to DSBs  . To examine whether the transcriptional induction of ANAC044 and ANAC085 is mediated by SOG1 , we conducted qRT-PCR using RNA isolated from the sog1 knockout mutant sog1-101  . As shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 2A , bleomycin-induced expression of ANAC044 and ANAC085 was not observed in sog1-101 . As described above , we had identified ANAC044 and ANAC085 as SOG1 target genes because their promoters displayed significant peaks in the ChIP-seq data of SOG1  . We searched for the SOG1-binding motif CTT  7AAG in the promoter regions of ANAC044 and ANAC085 , and found CTTGGGGAGCAAG and CTTATTTACGAAG sequences , respectively  . The result showed that for both ANAC044 and ANAC085 , the promoter regions containing the SOG1-binding motifs were highly enriched when chromatin isolated from bleomycin-treated plants , but not from non-treated control , was used for immunoprecipitation  . This strongly suggests that SOG1 binds to the ANAC044 and ANAC085 promoters under DNA damage conditions and induces their expression . We then examined the involvement of ANAC044 and ANAC085 in the DDR using multiple mutant alleles . anac044-1  and anac044-2  have T-DNA insertions in the fourth and fifth exons of ANAC044 , respectively , and anac085-1  and anac085-2  contain T-DNA fragments in the fourth exon of ANAC085  . Semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that transcripts of ANAC044 in anac044-1 and anac044-2 , and ANAC085 in anac085-1 and anac085-2 , were undetectable using primers flanking the T-DNA insertion sites , indicating that all are null alleles  . Measurement of root growth showed that the two mutants for each of anac044 or anac085 were more tolerant than WT to all four DNA-damaging agents , and that root growth was almost the same between anac044 and anac085  . Moreover , the anac044-1 anac085-1 double mutant showed a similar tolerance to that of the single mutants  . We found that the tolerance to bleomycin and MMS was comparable between sog1-101 , anac044-1 anac085-1 and the triple mutant anac044-1 anac085-1 sog1-101  . Moreover , the triple mutant exhibited hypersensitivity to HU and MMC to a similar extent to that of sog1-101  , indicating that sog1-101 is epistatic to anac044-1 anac085-1 . These results suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 function downstream of SOG1 in DNA damage-induced root growth retardation . To reveal whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 are also required for DSB-induced stem cell death , five-day-old seedlings were treated with bleomycin for 24 hr , and root tips were observed . Propidium iodide  -stained dead cells were visible in the stem cell and stele precursor cell populations in WT , while almost no cell death was observed in anac044-1 anac085-1 , sog1-101 or anac044-1 anac085-1 sog1-101  . This result suggests that ANAC044 and ANAC085 also participate in SOG1-mediated induction of stem cell death . As described above , anac044-1 anac085-1 is also defective in DNA damage-induced stem cell death; therefore , we investigated root regeneration in anac044-1 anac085-1 after a one-day treatment with bleomycin . On the other hand , anac044-1 anac085-1 displayed no cell death in the stem cell niche or in the meristematic zone , and cells were properly arranged in the root tip throughout 7 days after recovery  . The anac044-1 anac085-1 sog1-101 triple mutant showed disorganized root tissues as observed in sog1-101  , again indicating epistasis of sog1-101 over anac044-1 anac085-1 . These results suggest that stem cells in sog1-101 and anac044-1 anac085-1 have different characteristics; namely , DNA-damaged stem cells in anac044-1 anac085-1 , but not sog1-101 , can function in producing transit-amplifying cells , which constitute the root meristem . SOG1-dependent , but ANAC044/085-independent , pathway  are probably required for preserving the integrity of stem cells that have been exposed to DNA damage . To investigate whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 participate in DNA repair , we examined the expression of DNA repair-related genes in the anac044 anac085 double mutant . Five-day-old seedlings were treated with bleomycin for 10 hr , at which time ANAC044 and ANAC085 are highly induced in WT  , and total RNA was analysed using an Agilent Custom Microarray that covers all annotated Arabidopsis genes . In anac044 anac085 , the up-regulated genes were normally induced by bleomycin treatment  , suggesting that neither ANAC044 nor ANAC085 is required for DSB-induced expression of DNA repair-related genes . To test the functional relevance of ANAC044 and ANAC085 to DNA repair , we performed an assay to detect HR-mediated DNA repair events using the beta-glucuronidase  recombination reporter line  . Plants with the disrupted GUS gene were crossed with sog1-101 and anac044-1 anac085-1 , and blue spots were counted on leaves . In contrast , no significant difference was observed in the number of blue spots between WT and anac044-1 anac085-1 irrespective of gamma irradiation  , suggesting that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are not involved in HR . The above results indicate that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are required for the part of the DDR that is essential for root growth retardation and stem cell death , but not for DNA repair . Bleomycin treatment for 24 hr resulted in a 38% reduction in the meristem cell number in WT , while no significant reduction was observed in anac044-1 anac085-1 , sog1-101 or anac044-1 anac085-1 sog1-101  . This suggests that SOG1 , ANAC044 and ANAC085 control cell division in the meristem and/or the transition from cell division to endoreplication under DNA damage conditions . To clarify whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 are involved in DNA damage-induced G2 arrest , we conducted EdU incorporation experiments . In the absence of bleomycin , EdU-labelled cells with mitotic figures increased in WT , anac044 anac085 and sog1-101 after 4 hr  , implying that EdU-labelled cells entered the M phase . On the other hand , bleomycin treatment significantly suppressed the increase of EdU-positive cells with mitotic figures in WT , indicating an impairment in G2/M progression , whereas an increase was observed in anac044 anac085 and sog1-101 irrespective of bleomycin treatment  . This suggests that ANAC044 and ANAC085 as well as SOG1 are essential for inhibiting G2-to-M progression in response to DSBs . To examine whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 are involved in repression of G2/M-specific genes , we measured the transcript levels of four MYB3R3 targets , KNOLLE , CYCB1;2 , EPS15 HOMOLOGY DOMAIN 2  and PLEIADE/MAP65-3  , in root tips . In the anac044-1 anac085-1 double mutant , the transcript levels decreased until 12 hr as in WT; however , they did not further decrease beyond 24 hr of bleomycin treatment  . Therefore , we examined whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 also participate in controlling the expression of SMR5 and SMR7 . Our qRT-PCR showed that bleomycin treatment rapidly induced the expression of SMR5 and SMR7 in both WT and anac044 anac085  , suggesting that ANAC044 or ANAC085 is not required for the immediate induction of CDK inhibitor genes . These data are consistent with the above-mentioned result that suppression of G2/M-specific genes was impaired only at a later stage of the DDR in anac044 anac085  . To examine whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 are associated with the protein stability of repressor-type MYB3Rs , we observed the accumulation in roots of the MYB3R3-GFP fusion protein , which was expressed under the 1 . As reported previously , the GFP fluorescence was increased by bleomycin treatment in the root tip  , whereas no increase was observed in sog1-101 or anac044-1 anac085-1  . Immunoblot analysis using total protein from root tips also showed bleomycin-induced accumulation of MYB3R3-GFP in WT , but not in anac044-1 anac085-1  . Note that the MYB3R3 transcript level was unaltered by mutations in SOG1 , ANAC044 or ANAC085  . These results suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 as well as SOG1 are involved in DNA damage-induced accumulation of the repressor-type MYB3Rs . Our qRT-PCR showed that MYB3R4 transcripts were reduced in anac044 anac085 in a similar manner to that in WT  , suggesting that ANAC044 and ANAC085 function in controlling the level of repressor-type , but not of activator-type , MYB3Rs . Our measurement of root growth showed that anac044 anac085 was as tolerant to bleomycin treatment as myb3r3-1 , a knockout mutant of MYB3R3   . Moreover , the anac044 anac085 myb3r3-1 triple mutant also exhibited the same sensitivity to bleomycin  , indicating that ANAC044/085 and MYB3R3 function in the same pathway . Taken together , our results suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 , which are induced by DNA damage-activated SOG1 , enhance protein accumulation of repressor-type MYB3Rs , thereby suppressing G2/M-specific genes and causing G2 arrest . To further examine the role of the ANAC044/085-mediated pathway in cell cycle arrest , we generated transgenic plants overexpressing ANAC044 fused to the glucocorticoid receptor , which is activated by dexamethasone  . In the absence of bleomycin , the overexpression lines displayed similar root growth to WT irrespective of Dex treatment  , suggesting that ANAC044 overexpression by itself does not inhibit cell division . However , in the presence of bleomycin , root growth was further retarded in the overexpression lines; #1 showed much slower root growth than #2 , which has lower ANAC044-GR expression  . The above results indicate that the ANAC044/085-mediated pathway plays a major role in DNA stress-induced cell cycle arrest . To examine whether the same signalling module also functions in other stress responses , we investigated the involvement of ANAC044 and ANAC085 in the response to heat and osmotic stresses , which are known to retard G2 and G1 phase progression , respectively , in maize roots  . We found that the anac044 anac085 mutant exhibited the same sensitivity as WT to mannitol  , and that the promoter activity of ANAC044 was not elevated by mannitol treatment  . This suggests that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are not associated with the osmotic stress-induced inhibition of G1 progression; therefore , we focus on heat stress hereafter . anac044 anac085 seedlings grown on MS medium at 22°C for 5 days were incubated at 37°C for 24 hr , and root length was measured after transfer to 22°C . As shown in Figure 8C , root growth inhibition by heat stress was less evident in anac044 anac085 than in WT , indicating heat stress tolerance  . sog1-101 exhibited the same sensitivity as WT  , suggesting that ANAC044 and ANAC085 inhibit root growth independently of SOG1 . We next examined the transcriptional response of ANAC044 and ANAC085 to heat treatment . qRT-PCR showed that the transcript levels of ANAC044 and ANAC085 were highly elevated by heat stress in WT , and to the same extent in sog1-101  . These results suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 perceive heat stress signals independently of the SOG1-mediated pathway , and that their induction leads to G2 arrest . The next question is whether ANAC044 and ANAC085 inhibit G2 phase progression by controlling protein accumulation of repressor-type MYB3Rs , as in the case of DNA stress . In the ProMYB3R3:MYB3R3-GFP reporter line , the GFP fluorescence was increased by incubation of seedlings at 37°C for 24 hr , but no such induction was observed in anac044 anac085  . The MYB3R3 transcript level was elevated by heat treatment in both WT and anac044 anac085  , indicating that transcriptional induction does not affect protein abundance; rather , protein-level regulation is crucial in controlling MYB3R3 accumulation . Measurement of root growth and counting the meristematic cell number showed that myb3r3-1 and the anac044 anac085 myb3r3-1 triple mutant exhibited the same tolerance to heat stress as anac044 anac085  . These results suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are required for MYB3R3 accumulation in response to heat stress , and that the ANAC044/085–MYB3R3/5 signalling pathway is a central module controlling G2 arrest in stress responses . In this study , we revealed that DNA damage-activated SOG1 causes cell cycle arrest through two other NAC-type transcription factors , ANAC044 and ANAC085 , which promote the accumulation of Rep-MYB proteins and suppress G2/M-specific genes , thereby inducing G2 arrest . Although the anac044 anac085 mutant was as sensitive as WT to osmotic stress , it was tolerant to heat stress and defective in heat-induced accumulation of Rep-MYB . These data suggest that ANAC044 and ANAC085 play a crucial role in controlling cell cycle arrest at G2 , but not at the other phases , in response to stresses  . Deployment of the ANAC044/085-mediated signalling module indicates that although eukaryotic cells commit to enter a new cell cycle during G1  , plants have an additional critical point at G2 for deciding whether or not cells resume proliferation after escaping from stress . Since ANAC044 and ANAC085 are also involved in DNA damage-induced stem cell death  , G2 arrest may be prerequisite for choosing between life and death of mitotic cells as well . In the anac044 anac085 mutant , DNA damage up- and down-regulates the expression of CDK inhibitors  and MYB3R4 , respectively , to the same extent as in WT  , suggesting that the initial reduction of CDK activities occurs normally . However , in anac044 anac085 , further reduction in G2/M-specific gene expression after 12 hr was suppressed  , indicating that ANAC044 and ANAC085 stabilize Rep-MYBs at a later stage of the DDR by controlling factors other than CDK activity . One possibility is that ANAC044 and ANAC085 inhibit the expression , accumulation or activity of the degradation machinery for Rep-MYBs . A previous study showed that transcript levels of several F-box genes were reduced by gamma-irradiation  ; therefore , such factors related to ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis may be under the control of ANAC044 and ANAC085 , thereby regulating the protein stability of Rep-MYBs under DNA damage conditions . We revealed that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are not required for induction of DNA repair-related genes , and that the frequency of HR was dramatically reduced in sog1-101 , but not in anac044 anac085  . This indicates that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are engaged in inhibiting cell division , whereas SOG1 is involved in DNA repair as well as cell cycle regulation  . It is noteworthy that unlike sog1 , anac044 anac085 displayed proper arrangement of root cells after recovery from bleomycin treatment  . Therefore , although stem cell death is suppressed in both sog1 and anac044 anac085 , stem cells in sog1 , but not anac044 anac085 , may seriously suffer from DNA damage , thus failing to undergo mitotic cell division and to maintain root organization . On the other hand , the phenotype of anac044 anac085 suggests that SOG1-mediated activation of DNA repair is sufficient to preserve stem cells , whereas stem cell death and regeneration of new stem cells are probably also important to preserve genome integrity in stem cells . In contrast , ANAC044 and ANAC085 lack SQ motifs , raising the possibility that they do not require phosphorylation of the SQ motif for their transcriptional function . Nonetheless , we found that ANAC044 overexpression by itself could not induce cell cycle arrest , and that DNA damage signals are required for ANAC044 function  . The DNA damage sensitivity of the anac044 anac085 double mutant was indistinguishable from that of the single mutants , implying that ANAC044 and ANAC085 work together in DDRs . Several NAC transcription factors are known to form homo- or heterodimers  , suggesting the possibility that ANAC044 and ANAC085 form dimers to act on target genes . This hypothesis is supported by our obsevation that ANAC044 overexpression further retarded G2 progression only in the presence of bleomycin , which induces ANAC085 . On the other hand , it is unlikely that ANAC044 and ANAC085 form heterodimers with SOG1 to control the SOG1 target genes , because transcript levels of SOG1 target genes were elevated by bleomycin treatment in anac044 anac085 , as they were in WT  . However , it remains possible that ANAC044/085 interact with other NAC transcription factors including SOG1 , which are induced and/or activated by DNA damage , and control the expression of their target genes . The promoter region of ANAC085 , but not ANAC044 , contains several consensus motifs of the heat shock element , which is recognized by heat shock transcription factors  . Therefore , we propose that ANAC044 and ANAC085 are induced by distinct stress factors , thereby functioning as a hub in transmitting environmental signals to the cell cycle machinery . It is therefore likely that the ANAC044/ANAC085-mediated pathway also controls other subunits of the DREAM complex , thereby differentially controlling downstream genes in response to various stresses . anac044-1  , anac044-2  , anac085-1  and anac085-2  were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center . 5 kb promoters of ANAC044 and ANAC085 were PCR-amplified from genomic DNA and cloned into the Gateway entry vector pDONR221 by BP reaction according to the manufacturer’s instructions  . The GUS direct-repeat recombination reporter line #1406  was crossed with anac044-1 anac085-1 and sog1-101 . Plants homozygous for the reporter and the alleles of anac044-1 anac085-1 or sog1-101 were grown for two weeks , and irradiated with gamma rays  . "
"The endosomal sorting complexes required for transport  machinery mediates the physical separation between daughter cells during cytokinetic abscission . This process is regulated by the abscission checkpoint , a genome protection mechanism that relies on Aurora B and the ESCRT-III subunit CHMP4C to delay abscission in response to chromosome missegregation . In this study , we show that Unc-51-like kinase 3  phosphorylates and binds ESCRT-III subunits via tandem MIT domains , and thereby , delays abscission in response to lagging chromosomes , nuclear pore defects , and tension forces at the midbody . Our structural and biochemical studies reveal an unusually tight interaction between ULK3 and IST1 , an ESCRT-III subunit required for abscission . We also demonstrate that IST1 phosphorylation by ULK3 is an essential signal required to sustain the abscission checkpoint and that ULK3 and CHMP4C are functionally linked components of the timer that controls abscission in multiple physiological situations . Cytokinesis is the final stage of cell division when two daughter cells are physically separated . The process comprises several steps , including cleavage furrow ingression and abscission of the midbody—the thin intercellular bridge connecting the nascent daughter cells  . Midbody abscission occurs adjacent to the Flemming body , a central protein complex , and is mediated by the ESCRT pathway   . The ESCRT machinery performs topologically equivalent membrane fission events throughout the cell , including intraluminal vesicle formation at the multivesicular body , retroviral particle release , plasma membrane wound repair and abscission  . The core ESCRT machinery comprises five different factors or complexes: ALIX , ESCRT-I , ESCRT-II and ESCRT–III , and VPS4 . In most cases , location-specific adaptors initially recruit the early-acting ALIX and ESCRT-I/-II factors , which then recruit the late-acting ESCRT-III and VPS4 complexes to mediate membrane fission . In late stages of cytokinesis , the Flemming body protein CEP55 binds TSG101  and ALIX , which leads to ESCRT-III subunit recruitment  . ESCRT-III-based helical filaments form on either side of the Flemming body and induce cortical constriction , thereby promoting abscission  . In addition to driving membrane scission mechanically , ESCRT-III proteins recruit cytokinetic cofactors that contain MIT  domains . MIT domains bind short motifs within the C-terminal tails of ESCRT-III proteins called MIMs  , which become exposed and concentrated when the ESCRT-III proteins polymerize  . MIT domain-containing proteins that participate in cytokinesis include the AAA-ATPase VPS4 and its activator LIP5 , which remodel and recycle the ESCRT-III subunits  , Spastin , an AAA-ATPase that severs microtubules , and MITD1 , a membrane-binding protein that stabilizes the intercellular bridge  . When chromosomes persist within the midbody , the abscission checkpoint  inhibits abscission until chromatin has been cleared from the spindle midzone , thereby preventing aberrant segregation or cleavage furrow regression and tetraploidy  . Lagging chromosomes are sensed by the Aurora B kinase , which phosphorylates the ESCRT-III subunit CHMP4C to delay abscission  . Defective nuclear pore complex assembly also triggers Aurora B-dependent abscission delays  . The full signaling cascade that connects nuclear pores to abscission is not yet clear , but ESCRT proteins themselves are involved in the surveillance and clearance of defective nuclear pore complex assembly intermediates in S . Tension forces applied by dividing cells on the midbody also regulate cytokinesis , with high-tension delaying abscission , and tension release triggering ESCRT-III assembly and membrane scission  . How these different physiological inputs converge to influence abscission timing is not understood . Here , we investigate the function of Unc-51-like kinase 3  , a poorly characterized member of the ULK family of serine/threonine kinases that is predicted to contain tandem MIT domains  . Live-cell imaging analysis revealed that ULK3 regulates abscission timing in response to lagging chromosomes , defects in nuclear pore complex assembly , and tension forces at the midbody . Furthermore , our biochemical and structural studies show that the ULK3 MIT domains bind tightly to IST1 , an ESCRT-III subunit required for cytokinesis  . Finally , we show that ULK3 phosphorylates IST1 and other ESCRT-III proteins and that IST1 phosphorylation provides an essential inhibitory signal in the abscission checkpoint , thereby ensuring proper coordination of the final events in cell division . The predicted MIT domains in ULK3 suggested a novel mechanism of ESCRT regulation , and we , therefore , surveyed potential ULK3–ESCRT interactions using yeast two-hybrid  experiments . ULK3 binding was observed for three ESCRT-III subunits: CHMP1A , CHMP1B , and CHMP2A , but not for other ESCRT complexes  . These interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of Myc-tagged ESCRT-III proteins from mixed 293T cell lysates that contained One-strep-flag  -tagged ULK3  . This approach revealed that ULK3 also bound the ESCRT-III subunit IST1  , an interaction not tested by Y2H because IST1 fusion constructs activated transcription non-specifically . Endogenous ULK3 also co-precipitated with overexpressed HA-tagged CHMP1A , CHMP1B , CHMP2A , or IST1 , but not with CHMP2B  . Finally , endogenous IST1 was efficiently biotinylated in cells that expressed a biotin ligase BirA-ULK3 fusion protein , which promiscuously biotinylates proximal proteins   . Hence , ULK3 can interact with a specific subset of ESCRT-III proteins in cells . ULK3 binds ESCRT-III via tandem MIT domains . Lysates from 293T cells overexpressing Myc-endosomal sorting complexes required for transport  -III proteins were mixed with lysates from cells non-transfected  or overexpressing One-strep-flag  -Unc-51-like kinase 3   . OSF-ULK3 proteins were bound to streptactin resin and bound ESCRT-III proteins were detected with α-Myc antibody  . Lysates from 293T cells expressing HA-ESCRT-III were immunoprecipitated with α-HA antibody and co-precipitated endogenous ULK3 protein was detected by Western blot with α-ULK3 antibody . HeLa cells expressing ULK3 fused to the biotin protein ligase BirA-113G or unfused BirA were treated overnight with biotin . Vicinal biotinylated proteins were isolated with streptavidin-coated beads , and endogenous IST1 was found to be biotinylated , implying that it was in close proximity with ULK3 . ‘Asterisks’ denote isolated BirA-Empty and BirA-ULK3 , respectively , on α-Avidin blot  . Co-immunoprecipitation of Myc-IST1 with different ULK3 constructs . ‘Asterisks’ denote phosphorylated IST1 species . Top: overlaid 15N-HSQC NMR spectra of 15N , 13C-IST1  alone  or with 2 equivalents of ULK3  2   . Bottom: individual IST1 backbone amide resonances perturbed  or not  upon addition of ULK3  2 . Fluorescence polarization  -binding isotherms show interactions between different ULK3 MIT constructs corresponding to MIT2  or both MIT domains ( ULK3  2 ) and fluorescently labeled IST1 peptides for MIT-interacting motifs  1 , MIM2 , or both MIM1+MIM2  . Crystal structure of the ULK3 MIT2-IST1 MIM1 complex . Inset shows key interacting side-chains  with ULK3 M434 highlighted in red . Sequence alignment compares IST1 MIM1 to the consensus MIM1 sequence . Data Collection and Refinement Statistics for the ULK3 MIT2:IST1 MIM1 Complex . ULK3 binds to ESCRT-III via tandem MIT domains . Y2H assays in which ULK3 fused to the VP16 activation domain was tested for interactions with the designated human components of ESCRT-I , ESCRT-II , ESCRT-III , and ESCRT-associated proteins fused to Gal4 DNA-binding domain . Overlay of the ULK3 MIT2  /IST1-MIM1  structure with the structure of VPS4A  in complex with the MIM1 element of CHMP1A  . Structure-based sequence alignments of the IST1 and CHMP1A MIM1 sequences are shown below with residues within 4 Å of the MIT/MIM interface highlighted in red . Overlay of the ULK3 MIT2  structure with the structure of VPS4A  in complex with the MIM2 element of CHMP6  . The overlay demonstrates that the N-terminal helix of ULK3 MIT2 would sterically preclude binding of a canonical MIM2 element . Co-precipitations from 293T cells co-transfected with HA-CHMP1A or HA-IST1 and GST-ULK3 WT , V338D , or M434D . Western blot with α-GST shows equivalent capture of GST fusion proteins , where empty GST bands  were cropped from the same blot . Y2h assay in which CHMP1B WT and deletion and point mutants fused to Gal4 DNA-binding domains were tested for binding to ULK3 fused to the VP16 activation domain . Binding of all constructs to CHMP1A was used as a positive control . Y2H assay with ULK3 WT , V338D , or M434D fused to VP16 . Note that both mutations impair binding to CHMP1A and CHMP1B Gal4-fused proteins . In vitro kinase assay showing equivalent auto-phosphorylation activities for GST-ULK3 WT , GST-ULK3 V338D , and GST-ULK3 M434D . 005 Fluorescence polarization  binding assays indicated that ULK3 interacted more tightly with IST1  than with other ESCRT-III proteins   . We , therefore , focused on characterizing the IST1-ULK3 interaction . The IST1-binding site on ULK3 was mapped using co-precipitation experiments with Myc-tagged IST1 and different OSF-ULK3 deletion constructs . IST1 bound with similar efficiencies to full-length ULK3  and to a minimal construct that spanned just the C-terminal tandem MIT domains ( residues 277–449 , hereafter denoted ULK3  2; Figure 1D , lanes 2 and 5 , respectively ) , but did not bind to the isolated ULK3 kinase domain  . Thus , the ULK3 MIT domains form the primary IST1-binding site . As discussed below , co-expression of full-length ULK3 resulted in the appearance of lower mobility IST1 species , suggesting that the kinase can phosphorylate IST1  . NMR chemical shift perturbation experiments were used to map ULK3-binding sites on IST1 . IST1 contains two different MIT interaction motifs , termed MIM1  and MIM2  , that were included within a C-terminal IST1 peptide used in these experiments   . Both MIMs exhibited backbone amide proton chemical shift perturbations upon titration of 15N-labeled IST1303-366 with ULK3  2 , indicating that both IST1 MIMs can contact ULK3  2  , whereas the upstream IST1 residues 303–317 were not perturbed . To assess the binding contributions of each MIM and MIT element , we performed FP-binding experiments with fluorescently labeled peptides comprising either one or both of the IST1 MIM elements and one or both ULK3 MIT domains . The tightest interaction was observed for ULK3  2 binding to a construct that spanned both IST1 MIMs  . However , nearly all of the binding energy was contributed by the IST1 MIM1 element , which bound ULK3 MIT2 . Consistent with these experiments , IST1316-366 binding to ULK3  2 was reduced more than 100-fold by a single point mutation in the MIM1-binding site of ULK3 MIT2  , but not by an equivalent mutation in the MIM1-binding site of ULK3 MIT1  . Hence , both IST1 MIM elements can contact both ULK3 MIT domains , but IST1 MIM1 binding to ULK3 MIT2 domain is the energetically dominant interaction . We determined the crystal structure of ULK3 MIT2 in complex with IST1 MIM1 to 1 . ULK3 residues 372–446 form the characteristic MIT three-helix bundle , and the IST1 MIM1 helix binds parallel to MIT helix 3 in the groove between MIT helices 2 and 3  . This helix has not been seen in previous MIT domain structures and is expected to interfere sterically with the binding of canonical MIM2  elements  . Core IST1 MIM1 residues make a series of interactions that are similar to those seen in other MIT-MIM1 complexes   . The ULK3 M434 residue is central to this interface  , which explains why the M434D mutation inhibits IST1 binding  . The interaction between ULK3 MIT2 and IST1 MIM1  is significantly tighter than many previously described MIT–MIM1 interactions  . The additional binding energy appears to be contributed by N-terminal IST1 MIM1 residues I350 and F352 , and by the central F359 residue , all of which make hydrophobic interactions that are absent in other MIM1-MIT complexes . Binding of the bulky hydrophobic IST1 MIM1 F352 and F359 residues is accommodated by complementary small ULK3 MIT2 interfacial residues A415 and G408 , respectively . Charged or polar residues are found in equivalent positions of other MIT domains such as VPS4A  or ULK3 MIT1 . These interactions likely explain why IST1 MIM1 binds tightly and specifically to the ULK3 MIT2 domain . ULK3 binding also mapped to the MIM1 of CHMP1B as binding was inhibited by removal of CHMP1B MIM1 or by MIM1 point mutations  , but not by a mutation in the more extended CHMP1B MIM3 binding site   . However , unlike IST1 , the binding of CHMP1A and CHMP1B was reduced by point mutations in the MIM1-binding sites of either ULK3 MIT domain  . Thus , the binding specificities of the CHMP1A/B and IST1 proteins differ , and our data indicate that CHMP1 MIM1 elements can bind either ULK3 MIT domain . We used siRNA depletion to test whether ULK3 participates in endosomal sorting or virus budding . Effects on ESCRT-dependent lysosomal targeting were tested using two established assays; down-regulation of MHC class I by the Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus  K3 protein  , and degradation of Tetherin by the KSHV K5 protein  . ULK3 depletion did not affect either of these ESCRT-dependent degradation reactions , whereas control depletion of TSG101 inhibited both processes  . Similarly , ULK3 depletion had no effect on ESCRT-dependent HIV-1 budding  . We , therefore , conclude that ULK3 is not required for either of these ESCRT pathway functions . We next tested whether ULK3 functions in cytokinetic abscission using live imaging of HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells . ULK3-depleted cells proceeded through mitosis normally , but resolved their midbodies faster than control cells , at rates comparable to the abnormally rapid abscission observed in CHMP4C-depleted cells   . In addition , endogenous ULK3 protein was detected by immunofluorescence staining at the Flemming body , where it is positioned to function during cytokinetic abscission  . Based on these results , we tested whether ULK3 was required for abscission delays induced by the abscission checkpoint . One event that triggers the abscission checkpoint is the presence of defectively assembled nuclear pore complexes  . As expected , partial depletion of Nucleoporin 153  induced abscission delays that increased the number of midbody-connected cells  . This phenotype was abrogated upon ULK3-depletion , despite comparable levels of NUP153 depletion  . Active Aurora B  is known to localize to the midbody of dividing cells both in control or NUP153-depleted cells  . Immunofluorescence imaging of cells treated as in Figure 2C revealed that ULK3 depletion did not alter the localization of phosphorylated Aurora B to the midbody in cells co-depleted of NUP153 , indicating that ULK3 likely functions downstream of Aurora B in the abscission checkpoint  . These results were confirmed by live-cell imaging experiments , which demonstrated that ULK3 depletion abolished the 30-min abscission delay triggered by nuclear pore disruption  . Furthermore , partial depletion of NUP153 in two different clonal ULK3-knockout cell lines , in which the endogenous ULK3 locus was removed using a lentiviral CRISPR-Cas9 system  , also failed to sustain the abscission checkpoint , as seen by a lack of an increase in midbody-connected cells when compared to non-targeting  siRNA transfection , or control cell lines lacking guide RNAs against ULK3  . ULK3 regulates abscission timing . Asynchronous cultures of HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells were transfected with the specified siRNA . Midbody resolution times were calculated from three separate experiments ( mean times ±SD were non-targeting  : 96 ± 36 min; CHMP4C: 74 ± 26 min; ULK3: 74 ± 31 min ) . HeLa cells were stained with Hoechst , α-Tubulin , and α-ULK3 antibody  . ULK3 was observed at the Flemming body in 79% of observed midbodies  . Image shows a representative example of Flemming body localization , with the ULK3 signal in green , Tubulin in red , and nuclei in blue . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells transfected with NT or ULK3 siRNA were transfected with Nucleoporin 153  siRNA to trigger the abscission checkpoint . In  , cells were fixed and stained with α-Tubulin antibody to visualize midbody-arrested cells . In  , midbody abscission times were analyzed  . Clonal HeLa cells stably expressing a lentiviral vector containing CRISPR-Cas9 with a guide RNA sequence targeting the ULK3 locus  or without guide RNA  were transfected with NT or NUP153 siRNA as above and stained with α-Tubulin antibody to visualize midbody-arrested cells . Data are represented as the mean percentage increase in midbody-connected cells compared to the percentage of midbodies in NT-treated cells for each cell line ±SD from four separate experiments . Mean percentages of NUP153 depletion levels compared to HeLa + NT siRNA  from four independent experiments were lane 1: 100% , 2: 52% , 3: 85% , 4: 52% , 5: 94% , 6: 51% , 7: 75% , 8: 48% , 9: 96% , 10: 48% . HeLa YFP-lamina-associated polypeptide 2β  expressing cells were transfected with NT and ULK3 siRNA , and resolution times of intercellular chromatin bridges were quantified in three separate experiments  . Analysis of tension-dependent modulation of abscission time , mean times: 1: 120 ± 53 min; 2: 73 ± 19 min; 3: 77 ± 41 min; 4: 69 ± 20 min ) . Data in  are represented as box plots showing median abscission times  or LAP2β bridge resolution times  . Cell lysates in  were examined by Western blot using indicated antibodies . ULK3 is not required for endosomal sorting or HIV-1 budding , but does regulate abscission timing . HeLa Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus  K3 expressing cells were transfected with NT or two different siRNAs against ULK3  . Cell lysates were analyzed by Western blot with α-ULK3 and α-TSG101 to verify knockdown of endogenous proteins . HT/THN-HA  and HT/THN-HA KSHV K5  expressing cells were transfected with NT , TSG101 , or ULK3 siRNA . Cell lysates obtained 72 hr after initial transfection were analyzed by Western blot using α-HA and α-HSP90 antibodies . 293T cells were co-transfected with an HIV-1 proviral pNL/HXB plasmid and the indicated siRNA . Cell lysates were analyzed by Western blot with α-Gag , α-ULK3 , α-TSG101 , and α-HSP90 antibodies . Abscission dynamics for representative HeLa cells expressing mCherry-Tubulin treated with NT siRNA  or ULK3 siRNA  . Times in minutes are shown for each frame and ‘arrowheads’ indicate the moment of midbody abscission . HeLa cells transfected with NT or ULK3 siRNA were transfected with NUP153 siRNA as in Figure 2C , fixed and stained with Hoechst  , α-Tubulin  , and α-pT232 Aurora B  antibodies to visualize midbody-arrested cells and active Aurora B , respectively . LAP2β-positive intercellular chromatin bridges resolve faster in ULK3-depleted cells . Selected frames from Videos 4 , 5 showing the resolution dynamics of intercellular chromatin bridges present in HeLa cells expressing YFP-LAP2β transfected with NT siRNA  or ULK3 siRNA  . Asynchronous HeLa cells doubly expressing YFP-LAP2β and mCherry-Tubulin transfected with NT or ULK3 siRNA were imaged live over 72 hr . For each condition , dividing cells were segregated between normal midbody-connected cells and chromatin bridge-containing cells , and further classified into cells achieving abscission  or cells showing failed abscission as seen by the regression of the cleavage furrow   . Red line indicates mean resolution times for NT siRNA: 950 min and ULK3 siRNA: 598 min , and n = total number of events counted per sample . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with non-targeting  siRNA . Abscission time is 90 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with ULK3 siRNA . Abscission time is 60 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with ULK3 siRNA . Abscission time is 60 min . 011 Another trigger for the abscission checkpoint is the presence of lagging chromosomes within the midbody  , and we tested whether ULK3 was also required for this process . The presence of chromatin bridges within the midbody was monitored by time-lapse microscopy in cells expressing YFP-tagged lamina-associated polypeptide 2β   . As described previously for CHMP4C-depleted cells  , LAP2β bridges were also resolved more rapidly upon depletion of ULK3  . In control cells , persisting chromosome bridges were resolved in 680 min , whereas in ULK3-depleted cells , this resolution time was dramatically reduced to 300 min . Thus , our experiments demonstrate that ULK3 plays an essential role in supporting the Aurora B-dependent abscission checkpoint in response to either defective nuclear pore assembly or lagging chromosomes . Besides delaying abscission , Aurora B activation also prevents cleavage furrow regression in cells that contain chromosome bridges  . As expected , the frequency of furrow regression increased in cells with lagging chromosomes , but ULK3 depletion did not change this proportion  . This result indicates that ULK3 does not control furrow regression , but instead likely functions downstream of Aurora B in delaying abscission in response to chromatin bridges . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-LAP2β transfected with NT siRNA . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-LAP2β transfected with ULK3 siRNA . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-LAP2β and mCherry-Tubulin , containing an intercellular chromatin bridge that resolves in 850 min when the daughter cells faithfully divide . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-LAP2β and mCherry-Tubulin , containing an intercellular chromatin bridge that does not resolve and the cleavage furrow regresses . 015 A recent study revealed that the high-membrane tension of cells grown at low density delays abscission as compared to cells grown at high density  . We , therefore , asked whether ULK3 also plays a role in this largely unexplored regulatory mechanism . Abscission events from Figure 2A were stringently segregated into two extreme groups: those for isolated cells  and those for closely packed cells  . As reported previously , low-density cells showed significant abscission delays as compared to high-density cells  . In contrast , ULK3-depleted cells showed similar rapid abscission times regardless of the cell density  . Thus , ULK3 is also required to delay abscission in response to midbody tension . Representative example of low-density asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 170 min . Representative example of high-density asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 60 min . Representative example of low-density asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with ULK3 siRNA . Abscission time is 60 min . Representative example of high-density asynchronous HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells treated with ULK3 siRNA . Abscission time is 60 min . 019 We next performed mutational analyses to test the requirements for ULK3 to function in the abscission checkpoint . The faster abscission in ULK3-depleted cells was restored to control levels by stable expression of an siRNA-resistant wild-type ULK3 construct  , but not by expression of ULK3 proteins with inactivating mutations in the MIM1-binding sites of either  MIT domains  or with an inactivating mutation in the ATP-binding site  of the kinase domain   . Similarly , stable overexpression of these MIT  or catalytic  mutants did not change the timing of abscission , whereas ULK3R WT overexpression induced abscission delays  . The ULK3 MIT mutations did not alter ULK3 kinase activity  , and we , therefore , attribute their effects in abscission specifically to reductions in ESCRT-III binding . The efficacy of the K44H mutation was confirmed by the lack of auto-phosphorylation activity of GST-ULK3 K44H in an in vitro kinase assay  , and retention of ESCRT-III binding activity was confirmed by Y2H  . Thus , ULK3 modulates midbody resolution timing through both its kinase activity and ESCRT-III interactions . ESCRT-III binding and kinase activity are required for ULK3 function . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells stably expressing empty vector or siRNA-resistant ULK3  were transfected with the indicated siRNA . Midbody resolution times were calculated in three separate experiments  . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells expressing empty vector , ULK3 WT , V338D , or M434D were imaged live . Midbody resolution times were analyzed from three separate experiments  . In vitro kinase assay showing the auto-phosphorylation activity of GST-ULK3 WT and GST-ULK3 K44H . Yeast two-hybrid  assay with ULK3 WT and ULK3 K44H fused to VP16 binding to ESCRT-III proteins fused to Gal4 . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells expressing either empty vector or ULK3R constructs were transfected with the indicated siRNA . Midbody resolution times were analyzed in three independent experiments  . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells expressing empty vector , ULK3 WT , or K44H were imaged live . Midbody resolution times were calculated in four separate experiments  . Cell lysates in  were examined by Western blot using the indicated antibodies . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 V338D . Abscission time is 80 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 M434D . Abscission time is 70 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 K44H . Abscission time is 80 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and empty vector . Abscission time is 100 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 WT . Abscission time is 160 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 WT . Abscission time is 290 min . 023 The functional links with ESCRT-III subunits suggested that catalytically active ULK3 might regulate abscission timing by influencing ESCRT-III polymerization during cytokinesis . We tested this hypothesis by analyzing the midbody location of endogenous IST1 , which is essential for abscission  . ULK3 overexpression altered IST1 midbody localization significantly , as indicated by a 1 . 5-fold increase in the proportion of IST1 found at the midbody rings and a marked ninefold increase in the proportion of midbodies containing a single ring of IST1 at the Flemming body  . Importantly , HA-ULK3 was seen to co-localize with IST1 at this Flemming body ring   . Additionally , ULK3 and IST1 co-localized at midbody rings on both sides of the Flemming body   , which could be a transient ULK3 localization rarely observed in steady-state conditions exacerbated in the overexpression context  . Effects of ULK3 on IST1 localization at the midbody . HeLa mCherry-Tubulin cells stably expressing empty vector or ULK3 WT were stained with Hoechst and α-IST1 antibody . Cells connected by midbodies were classified by the localization pattern of IST1 as shown on the left panel , where Tubulin is red and IST1 is green . Panels show a representative example of Flemming body localization  or midbody rings  , where the IST1 signal  co-localizes with HA-ULK3  in HeLa YFP-Tubulin  cells expressing HA-ULK3 stained with α-IST1 and α-HA antibodies . ULK3 and IST1 co-localization was observed in 100% of midbodies with Flemming body localization for IST1  . Effects of ULK3 on the abscission machinery . HeLa cells stably expressing GFP-CHMP4B and empty vector , ULK3 WT , K44H , or M434D were fixed and stained with Hoechst , α-GFP , α-ULK3 , and α-Tubulin antibodies . Cells connected by midbodies were counted and classified by the localization pattern of GFP-CHMP4B as shown on the images on the right , where Tubulin is in red and GFP in green . Cells overexpressing ULK3 WT from  were stained with α-Tubulin and α-MKLP1 antibody , a marker of the Flemming body . Panel shows a representative midbody with a Flemming body ring , where the unusual GFP-CHMP4B pattern  co-localizes with MKLP1  . Panels show co-localization of GFP and ULK3 signals in HeLa GFP-CHMP4B cells expressing ULK3 WT  or K44H  stained with Hoechst , α-ULK3 , and α-Tubulin antibodies . In C , top panels show a representative example of ULK3 WT co-localization with GFP-CHMP4B at the midbody rings  and bottom panels an example of co-localization at the Flemming body  . 028 As a second marker for ESCRT-III polymers , we investigated whether ULK3 overexpression altered the midbody localization of GFP-CHMP4B expressed at endogenous levels  . As with IST1 , the proportion of midbodies exhibiting single Flemming body rings of GFP-CHMP4B also increased 20-fold upon ULK3 overexpression  . In contrast , overexpression of either ESCRT-binding deficient  or kinase-defective  ULK3 had no effect on GFP-CHMP4B localization  . Thus , the ability of ULK3 constructs to induce aberrant ESCRT-III localization correlates with their ability to delay abscission . Both WT and K44H ULK3 co-localized with GFP-CHMP4B polymers at the intercellular bridge  , while only ULK3 WT co-localized with GFP-CHMP4B at the Flemming body   , more closely reflecting the Flemming body localization observed for endogenous ULK3 in a context without overexpression  . This observation suggests that ULK3 does not delay abscission by directly blocking or outcompeting ESCRT-III interactions required for polymerization . Instead , ULK3 apparently induces abscission delays and ESCRT-III mislocalization by phosphorylating substrates important for abscission completion . Taken together , these data show that catalytically active ULK3 changes the steady-state distribution of ESCRT-III proteins at the midbody , suggesting that the abscission delays induced by ULK3 are due , at least in part , to defective ESCRT-III polymerization . We next tested whether ESCRT-III subunits are phosphorylated by ULK3 . An in vitro kinase assay using recombinant ULK3 on immunoprecipitated HA-ESCRT-III proteins showed phosphorylation of CHMP1A , CHMP1B , CHMP2A , and IST1  , but not other ESCRT-III subunits . Analogous phosphorylation events were recapitulated in cells overexpressing OSF-ULK3 and Myc-tagged ESCRT-III proteins . The enhanced separation of phosphorylated species by electrophoresis on Phos-tag SDS-PAGE gels revealed ULK3-dependent phosphorylation of IST1 , CHMP1A , CHMP1B , and CHMP2A , but not CHMP3  . Phosphorylation was confirmed by sensitivity to calf intestinal phosphatase  treatment  and by expressing the inactive ULK3 K44H protein as a control  . These data demonstrate that ULK3 ESCRT-III binding partners are also substrates for phosphorylation . Identification of ULK3 phosphorylation sites within IST1 . In vitro kinase assay with recombinant ULK3 protein  on immunoprecipitated HA-ESCRT-III proteins expressed in 293T cells . Western blot with α-HA antibody shows immunoprecipitated ESCRT-III proteins  . 293T cells co-transfected with Myc-IST1 and either empty vector , OSF-ULK3 WT or OSF-ULK3 K44H . Identified phosphorylation sites mapped onto the IST1 domain structure  and onto the crystal structure of the IST1 N-terminal domain  39 . HeLa cells stably expressing empty vector , siRNA-resistant IST1  WT , or IST1R 4SA were transfected with siRNA and treated overnight with DMSO or Nocodazole . HeLa cells were transfected with siRNA prior to overnight treatment with DMSO or Nocodazole . In  , cell lysates were resolved on 10% Phos-tag gels and analyzed by western blot , where ‘asterisks’ denote bands corresponding to IST1 phosphorylated species , sensitive  or insensitive  to the 4SA mutation or ULK3/CHMP4C depletion . ULK3 phosphorylation of ESCRT-III proteins . 293T cells were co-transfected with vectors expressing Myc-ESCRT-III proteins and either empty vector , OSF-ULK3 WT , or OSF-ULK3 K44H . Cell lysates were electrophoresed on 10% Phos-tag gels and blotted for the designated ESCRT-III proteins to reveal lower mobility phosphoproteins  . Overlay of ESI/MS spectra showing the intact mass of Myc-IST1 co-immunoprecipitated with either OSF-ULK3 WT  or the catalytically inactive OSF-ULK3 K139R protein together with CIP treatment  . Theoretical vs actual measured masses of phospho-IST1 species detected in this experiment are tabulated . 030 ULK3 phosphorylation of IST1 was characterized by mass spectrometry . To maximize IST1 phosphorylation , we co-overexpressed Myc-IST1 and OSF-ULK3 in 293T cells , affinity purified the IST1/ULK3 complexes , and determined the masses of intact IST1 proteins by electrospray ionization  mass-spectrometry . We observed four different IST1 species whose masses differed by ∼80 Da , the mass change corresponding to phosphorylation  . The different masses corresponded to Myc-IST1 proteins with 1–4 phosphates  . These assignments were confirmed by measuring the intact mass of Myc-IST1 co-expressed with a catalytically inactive ULK3 protein   and CIP treated  . Phosphorylation sites were mapped by ESI/MS/MS analyses of IST1 peptides from tryptic and chymotryptic digests . These analyses confirmed that Myc-IST1 is N-terminally acetylated and identified four phosphorylated serine residues: S4 , S99 , S153 , and S214 . These sites are upstream of the IST1 MIM elements , either within the core ESCRT-III four-helix bundle   or in a flexible region flanking the core  . We next compared the phosphorylation status of endogenous IST1 in cycling cells vs Nocodazole-arrested cells . Nocodazole treatment induced accumulation of at least two different phosphorylated IST1 species  . A similar banding pattern was observed when endogenous IST1 was depleted and replaced by an siRNA-resistant wild-type IST1 construct  . However , the lowest mobility IST1 species was eliminated when the four mapped phosphorylated serine residues were mutated to alanine  . The IST1R 4SA mutant still formed intermediate mobility species , which suggests that additional site  on IST1 may be phosphorylated by ULK3 or other mitotic kinases . Formation of the lowest mobility phosphorylated IST1 species was ULK3-dependent , as it was also eliminated by depletion of ULK3 from Nocodazole-treated cells  . Taken together , these results indicate that ULK3 phosphorylates endogenous IST1 during mitosis . To evaluate the functional consequences of IST1 phosphorylation by ULK3 , we tested the ability of the IST1R 4SA mutant to support the abscission checkpoint . These experiments revealed that NUP153 depletion failed to trigger the abscission checkpoint when endogenous IST1 was replaced with IST1R 4SA  , whereas the checkpoint was fully functional when IST1R WT was used in this assay  . Similarly , intercellular chromatin bridges in cells depleted of endogenous IST1 but expressing IST1R 4SA resolved significantly faster than chromatin bridges in control cells or cells that expressed IST1R WT  . Importantly , both IST1R WT and IST1R 4SA were able to restore the abscission defects induced by IST1 depletion  , indicating that IST1R 4SA is fully functional for cytokinesis under steady-state conditions . Similarly , IST1R 4SA retained its interactions with all known IST1-binding partners in Y2H assays  . It was notable that the IST1R 4SA could also still support abscission delays when the checkpoint was induced by low-cell tension . Specifically , the effects on tension-mediated abscission regulation were similar when cells expressed IST1R WT or IST1R 4SA  . Thus , the IST1R 4SA protein did not support the abscission checkpoint in response to chromatin within the midbody and nuclear pore disruption but retained other IST1 binding and abscission functions , including regulation of abscission timing in response to midbody tension . In contrast , a phosphomimetic IST1 mutant  failed to restore abscission in IST1-depleted cells , as reflected by the accumulation of multinucleated and midbody-arrested cells  . Furthermore , live-cell imaging confirmed that even when cells expressing IST1R 4SE did complete abscission , they did so more slowly than cells expressing IST1R WT or 4SA  . Collectively , these experiments indicate that ULK3 phosphorylation of IST1 delays abscission as an essential component of the abscission checkpoint in the presence of chromatin bridges within the midbody or incomplete nuclear pore assembly . ULK3 phosphorylation of IST1 is required to sustain the abscission checkpoint and inhibits IST1 function in abscission . HeLa cells stably expressing empty vector , IST1R WT , or IST1R 4SA were co-transfected with the indicated siRNA and NUP153 siRNA to trigger the abscission checkpoint . Cells were fixed and stained with Hoechst and α-Tubulin antibody to visualize nuclei and midbodies , respectively . HeLa YFP-LAP2β cells expressing empty vector , IST1R WT , or IST1R 4SA were transfected with NT or IST1 siRNA , and resolution times of intercellular chromatin bridges were quantified in two separate experiments  . HeLa cells stably expressing empty vector , IST1R WT , IST1R 4SA , or IST1R 4SE were transfected with the indicated siRNA , fixed and stained with α-Tubulin antibody to visualize cytokinetic defects . Data in  are represented as mean percentage of midbody-arrested or multinucleated cells ±SD from three separate experiments . ‘Asterisks’ and ‘arrowheads’ denote multinucleated and midbody-connected cells , respectively . HeLa YFP-Tubulin cells stably expressing empty vector , IST1R WT , IST1R 4SA , or IST1R 4SE were transfected with the indicated siRNA . Live-cell imaging revealed midbody resolution times from two separate experiments  . Cell lysates in  were examined by Western blot using the indicated antibodies . Co-precipitation assay from 293T cells co-transfected with the indicated YFP and GST fusions . α-YFP Western blot on input lysates  is representative for all experiments , and empty YFP band was cropped from the same blot . The IST1 phosphorylation 4SA mutant retains IST1 binding and abscission functions . Y2H assays with IST1 WT and IST1 4SA fused to the VP16 activation domain showing binding to VPS4A , VPSP4B , CHMP1A , CHMP1B , LIP5 , and MITD1 proteins fused to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain . CHMP2A was used as a negative control . Analysis of tension-dependent modulation of abscission time from events in Figure 6D . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-Tubulin and empty vector transfected with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 90 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-Tubulin and empty vector transfected with IST1 siRNA . Abscission time is 190 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-Tubulin and siRNA-resistant IST1  WT transfected with IST1 siRNA . Abscission time is 90 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-Tubulin and IST1R 4SA transfected with IST1 siRNA . Abscission time is 90 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing YFP-Tubulin and IST1R 4SE transfected with IST1 siRNA . Abscission time is 180 min . 037 We next used a co-precipitation approach to test whether phosphorylation altered the interactions of IST1 with its binding partners  . These experiments revealed that the phosphomimetic mutations enhanced binding of YFP-IST1 4SE to both GST-VPS4 and GST-LIP5 as compared to YFP-IST1 WT and YFP-IST1 4SA  . In contrast , the interaction of YFP-IST1 4SE with GST-CHMP1B was unchanged  , and the interaction with GST-CHMP2A remained negative . Thus , the enhanced binding effects of the IST1 phosphomimetic mutations were specific for VPS4 and its co-activator LIP5 . These results suggest that ULK3 phosphorylation of IST1 may delay abscission by regulating the interaction of IST1 with late-acting components of the ESCRT machinery . The phenotypic similarities between CHMP4C and ULK3 in regulating the abscission checkpoint suggested connections between these proteins . Consistent with this idea , CHMP4C depletion eliminated the IST1 hyperphosphorylation induced by Nocodazole treatment , mimicking the effects of ULK3 depletion  . This observation reveals a requirement for CHMP4C in IST1 phosphorylation and suggests a functional link between ULK3 and CHMP4C . To examine whether ULK3 and CHMP4C function in the same regulatory pathway , we tested whether ULK3 is required for the abscission delays induced by overexpression of GFP-CHMP4C  . GFP-CHMP4C overexpression increased the steady-state number of cells connected by midbodies , but ULK3 depletion reverted this phenotype to control levels  . Comparable effects were observed for cells treated with CHMP4C siRNA , which depleted both endogenous and exogenous CHMP4C  . Interestingly , ULK3 depletion did not alter GFP-CHMP4C localization within the central region of the midbody  , suggesting that ULK3 is not required for transmission of the Aurora B signal that targets CHMP4C to the Flemming body  . Endogenous ULK3 did co-localize with GFP-CHMP4C at the Flemming body , however , further supporting a functional connection between these proteins  . ULK3 and CHMP4C are functionally interconnected within the abscission control pathway . HeLa cells expressing GFP-CHMP4C were transfected with NT , ULK3 , or CHMP4C siRNA , fixed and stained with Hoechst and α-Tubulin antibody to visualize multinucleated and cells connected by midbodies . Data are represented as mean percentage of midbody-arrested cells ±SD from three separate experiments . Confocal microscopy of HeLa GFP-CHMP4C cells treated as in  . Data are represented as mean percentage of CHMP4C positive midbodies ±SD from two separate experiments  . HeLa GFP-CHMP4C cells were stained with α-ULK3 antibody . Panel shows a representative example of GFP-CHMP4C at the Flemming body co-localizing with endogenous ULK3  . HeLa GFP-CHMP4B or GFP-CHMP4C expressing cells were treated as in  and imaged live . Midbody resolution times were quantified in three separate experiments  . HeLa cells expressing empty vector or ULK3 WT were transfected with the indicated siRNA , and midbody resolution times were scored in three separate experiments  . HeLa cells expressing empty vector or ULK3 WT were treated with 1 μM DMSO or Aurora B inhibitor  . Only cells at midbody stage were monitored and imaged live starting at the time of treatment . The time spent in abscission until midbody resolution was analyzed in two separate experiments  . HeLa cells were treated overnight with media containing DMSO or Nocodazole with or without 1 μM ZM44739 inhibitor . ‘Asterisks’ denote bands corresponding to IST1 phosphorylated species that were sensitive  or insensitive  to Aurora B inhibition . HeLa cells stably expressing HA-CHMP4CR or HA-CHMP4CRδINS  were transfected with NT or ULK3 siRNA prior to overnight treatment with media containing DMSO or Nocodazole . HA-CHMP4CR WT or δINS levels were quantified by infrared imaging; data are represented as mean percentage of phosphorylated CHMP4C  vs non-phosphorylated CHMP4C  ±SD from three separate experiments . ULK3 phosphorylates CHMP4C . Lysates from 293T cells expressing HA-CHMP4 constructs were immunoprecipitated with α-HA antibodies and subjected to in vitro kinase assays with recombinant ULK3 . Incorporated ATP γ32P was visualized by phosphorimaging  , and CHMP4 proteins were detected by Western blotting  . CHMP4C truncations used in  are described in the text . Same experiment as in Figure 5B and Figure 5—figure supplement 1A in which 293T cells were co-transfected with expression constructs for CHMP4C-Myc and either an empty vector or expression constructs for OSF-ULK3 or OSF-ULK3 K44H , and lysates were run on a 10% Phos-tag gel to separate phosphoproteins . The ‘asterisk’ denotes the band corresponding to phosphorylated CHMP4C . HeLa cells stably expressing siRNA-resistant HA-CHMP4CR or HA-CHMP4CRδINS  constructs were treated overnight with media containing vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide  or nocodazole to induce mitotic arrest . Cell lysates were examined by Western blot with α-HA , α-P-Histone 3  and α-HSP90 antibodies . 039 The effects of ULK3 on GFP-CHMP4C-dependent abscission delays were confirmed by live imaging of cells co-expressing mCherry-Tubulin . In agreement with the fixed-cell data , ULK3 depletion reverted CHMP4C-induced delays in midbody resolution to control levels  . In a reciprocal experiment , CHMP4C depletion attenuated abscission delays imposed by ULK3 overexpression , although in this case the effect was incomplete  . ULK3-induced abscission delays were abolished upon treatment of cells at midbody stage with an Aurora B inhibitor   . ZM447439-treated cells rapidly underwent abscission , implying that Aurora B activity is required in order for ULK3 to delay abscission  . These data indicate that ULK3 and CHMP4C act together in regulating abscission as part of the Aurora B-dependent abscission control pathway . The requirement for CHMP4C in abscission delay can be partially alleviated in cells overexpressing ULK3 , however , suggesting that excess ULK3 can overcome upstream CHMP4C functions in regulating midbody resolution . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing GFP-CHMP4B and mCherry-Tubulin transfected with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 110 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing GFP-CHMP4C and mCherry-Tubulin transfected with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 140 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing GFP-CHMP4C and mCherry-Tubulin transfected with ULK3 siRNA . Abscission time is 80 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and empty vector transfected with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 80 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 transfected with NT siRNA . Abscission time is 120 min . Representative example of asynchronous HeLa cells stably expressing mCherry-Tubulin and ULK3 transfected with CHMP4C siRNA . Abscission time is 90 min . 045 We next assessed the effect of ULK3-mediated phosphorylation of IST1 and CHMP4C in the context of the Aurora B-dependent abscission pathway . As shown in Figure 7G , the lowest mobility IST1 species observed in mitotically arrested cells was eliminated upon treatment with Aurora B inhibitor  , whereas the intermediate mobility species was not altered by this treatment . These effects are similar to those observed for the IST1R 4SA mutant or upon ULK3 depletion . These observations suggest that the low-mobility species is required for abscission checkpoint function and that additional site  on IST1 could be phosphorylated by ULK3 or other mitotic kinases in an Aurora B-independent manner . We , therefore , tested whether immunoprecipitated HA-tagged CHMP4 proteins could be phosphorylated by ULK3 in vitro . CHMP4C was phosphorylated by recombinant ULK3 in these experiments , whereas CHMP4A and CHMP4B were not  . ULK3 phosphorylation was retained in a CHMP4C deletion mutant that lacked both the ALIX-binding site  and the C-terminal insertion that is phosphorylated by Aurora B23 , 24  . However , ULK3 phosphorylation was lost upon further deletion of the MIM2 element  . These results show that ULK3 and Aurora B target different residues in CHMP4C and indicate that ULK3-dependent phosphorylation requires the MIM2 region . In agreement with the in vitro data , CHMP4C phosphorylation was also observed in cells co-transfected with Myc-CHMP4C and OSF-ULK3  as was observed for other ULK3 ESCRT-III substrates . We have previously shown that CHMP4C is phosphorylated at the start of mitosis and dephosphorylated as mitosis progresses  . This phosphorylation induces a mobility shift that can be followed by Western blot of cells expressing HA-CHMP4C at functional levels   . Importantly , mitotic CHMP4C phosphorylation was also observed for a HA-CHMP4C mutant that lacked the Aurora B target residues   . Thus , Aurora B-independent phosphorylation of CHMP4C occurs during cell division . Quantitative Western blot revealed that mitotic arrest increased the fraction of phosphorylated CHMP4C  to 81% vs 7% in asynchronous cells  . However , depletion of ULK3 reduced the mitotic fraction of P-CHMP4C to just 30%  . These differences could not be attributed to gross changes in mitotic arrest because P-H3 levels remained constant upon ULK3 depletion . Similarly , the fraction of phosphorylated CHMP4CδINS increased in mitotic cells  , and phosphorylation levels were again reduced by ULK3 depletion , albeit not as dramatically as in the case of WT CHMP4C  . Hence , ULK3 contributes to mitotic CHMP4C phosphorylation , and ULK3-dependent phosphorylation and Aurora B-dependent phosphorylation of CHMP4C are separate events . Our study reveals that ULK3 is an essential component of the abscission checkpoint . ULK3 provides inhibitory signals to the abscission machinery that are sustained in response to defective nuclear pore complex assembly or the presence of lagging chromosomes within the midbody , thereby ensuring faithful cytokinesis progression . ULK3 is also the first identified component of a pathway that delays abscission in response to midbody tension . Both ULK3 kinase and ESCRT-III-binding activities are required for abscission regulation and our data support a model in which ULK3 phosphorylates ESCRT-III proteins , and thereby , delays the membrane cleavage step of abscission . Consistent with this model , we have identified a subset of ESCRT-III proteins , particularly IST1 , which are bound and phosphorylated by ULK3 . The MIT2 domain of ULK3 binds the MIM1 of IST1 with unusually high affinity . In contrast , both MIT domains contribute significantly to CHMP1A/B binding , suggesting that MIM1 elements of CHMP1 and IST1 proteins bind ULK3 in distinct ways . Both MIT domains contribute to ULK3 functions in the abscission checkpoint . These observations suggest that IST1 engages the ULK3 MIT2 domain , whereas the other MIT site is occupied by other ESCRT-III proteins and/or by yet unidentified binding partners . IST1 phosphorylation is required to mediate the abscission checkpoint and an IST1 phosphomimetic mutant failed to support abscission , indicating that phosphorylation inhibits at least one IST1 abscission function . We can envision different , non-exclusive mechanisms by which ULK3 phosphorylation of ESCRT-III proteins could delay abscission . In one model , ULK3 phosphorylation could directly prevent extension of ESCRT-III filaments to the abscission site either because phosphorylation stabilizes the auto-inhibited ESCRT-III conformation  or inhibits essential interactions within the polymer . ESCRT-III phosphorylation could also modulate interactions with other components of the abscission machinery . Overexpression of catalytically active ULK3 induced both IST1 and CHMP4B to form single rings within the Flemming body , a phenotype rarely observed in control cells . Intriguingly , both endogenous ULK3 and functionally active CHMP4C also localize to the Flemming body  , suggesting that ULK3 may promote association of ESCRT-III subunits with abscission checkpoint regulators to form a cytokinetic inhibitory complex at the central region of the midbody . We also observed that phosphomimetic mutations enhanced IST1 interactions with the late-acting VPS4 protein and its activator LIP5 in cells . We speculate that these enhanced interactions are mediated by unidentified bridging factor  because the IST1 phosphorylation sites lie outside of the VPS4- and LIP5-binding sites . The Abscission/NoCut Checkpoint Regulator  protein delays abscission by retaining VPS4 at the Flemming body  , and it is , therefore , possible that phosphorylated IST1 may collaborate with ANCHR . Moreover , IST1 can also inhibit VPS4 ATPase activity by forming an inactive IST1-VPS4 heterodimer  , and phosphorylated IST1 could , therefore , delay abscission by inhibiting VPS4 ATPase activity or by inhibiting productive VPS4 recruitment by ESCRT-III proteins , including CHMP1 and IST1 , which help localize VPS4 to the midbody late in cytokinesis  . We have shown that ULK3 acts in concert with Aurora B to regulate abscission through CHMP4C . We favor a model in which ULK3 is activated during mitosis and functions downstream of Aurora B and CHMP4C . This would explain why mitotic phosphorylation of IST1 requires ULK3 and CHMP4C and why ULK3 overexpression can partially overcome the requirement for CHMP4C in abscission delay . Given that ULK3 phosphorylates multiple ESCRT-III subunits , the initial phosphorylation of CHMP4C by Aurora B could be subsequently ‘amplified’ by ULK3 . Our data further show that ULK3 and Aurora B phosphorylate CHMP4C at different sites  . This is consistent with the functional interdependence of ULK3 and CHMP4C in the abscission checkpoint and could contribute to creating a feedback loop that sustains the inhibitory signal . Mitotic phosphorylation of CHMP4C then decreases at  the time of abscission , suggesting that a checkpoint-dependent phosphatase may override ULK3 activity and provide an ‘all clear’ signal to complete abscission . Finally , the recent identification of CHMP4C variants as risk factors for ovarian cancer suggests that abscission checkpoint defects may increase the tumorigenic potential of the daughter cells  . The identification of ULK3 as an essential component of the abscission checkpoint , thus , opens a new avenue in the emerging relationship between the abscission checkpoint and tumor formation . Yeast Y190 cells were co-transformed with 1 µg of each plasmid encoding the indicated proteins fused to the VP16 activation domain  or the Gal4 DNA-binding domain  . For live-cell imaging experiments , imaging was performed between 4 and 10 days after selection was added to the transduced cells . For all siRNA assays , cells were transfected twice with 100 nM of siRNA using Dharmafect-1  . For IST1 rescue experiments in Figure 6A , B , cells were transfected once with 100 nM of siRNA and fixed/imaged 12–16 hr after transfection . To trigger the abscission pathway by using partial depletion of NUP153 , cells were co-transfected with 10 nM of NUP153 siRNA  . Two sets of guide RNA targeting the ULK3 locus were designed using the Zhang Lab website  and cloned into a lentiCRISPRv2 plasmid   . Stable cell lines were generated by transfecting a 10-cm dish of 293T cells per construct , using 7 . Pelleted virions were re-suspended in serum free media overnight and used to transduce HeLa cells in 6-well per plate by spinoculation for 2 hr . After confirmation of efficient ULK3 knockout by Western blot , two δULK3 clones were selected and used for functional experiments . For the experiment shown in Figures 1A , 2 × 106 293T cells were seeded in 10-cm dishes and each dish was singly transfected 18–24 hr later with plasmids encoding Myc-tagged ESCRT-III proteins or OSF-ULK3  using PEI . To equalize expression levels , the following amounts of plasmids encoding Myc-tagged ESCRT-III proteins were transfected  : 10 µg each of CHMP2A-Myc , CHMP2B-Myc , CHMP4B-Myc , CHMP4C-Myc , and CHMP6-Myc; 5 µg of CHMP4A-Myc; 1 . 5 µg of CHMP1A-Myc and Myc-IST1; 0 . 25 µg of CHMP1B-Myc , CHMP3-Myc , CHMP5-Myc , and CHMP7-Myc . Lysates expressing ESCRT-III proteins were further diluted with lysate from untransfected cells to match expression levels and mixed with lysates prepared from cells expressing OSF-ULK3 . For co-precipitation experiments , 293T cells from 6-well plates were transfected with 1 µg of plasmids encoding the indicated pCAGGS/GST and pCR3 . 5 × 106 293T cells were transfected with 20 µg of plasmids encoding HA-tagged proteins . Bead-bound complexes were washed four times in wash buffer  , and bead-bound proteins were eluted by boiling in 80 µl of sample buffer , and examined by SDS-PAGE and Western blot . This approach is based on the fusion of ULK3 to the Escherichia coli modified biotin protein ligase BirA-113G , which can promiscuously biotinylate vicinal proteins in vivo that are later isolated with streptavidin-coated beads  . 5 × 106 HeLa cells stably expressing BirA-ULK3 were seeded in 10-cm dishes and treated overnight with 100 μM Biotin  . 100 ng of recombinant His-ULK3  was added on ice where required . Alternatively , when using ULK3 GST-fusion plasmids , 2 . IST1  and GST-fusions of ULK3  2   and ULK3 MIT2  were each expressed in 1 L cultures of BL21-Codon Plus  RIPL cells  in ZYP-5052 auto-induction media  . For crystallographic studies , ULK3  2 was additionally expressed in 2 L auto-induction PA-5052 media containing selenomethionine   . For GST-fusions , cells were resuspended in lysis buffer  containing 50 mM Tris pH 8 . Cells were lysed by sonication , and the cell lysate was clarified by centrifugation for 45 min at 32 , 000×g . 0 , 150 mM NaCl , 2 mM DTT , and washed with 10 column volumes of binding buffer containing 500 mM NaCl and 10 column volumes of 150 mM NaCl-containing binding buffer . GST-affinity tags were removed from resin-bound ULK3 proteins by overnight incubation with PreScission Protease  in 40 ml of GST-binding buffer at 4°C . Fractions containing ULK3 were pooled and dialyzed against gel filtration buffer  and further purified by Superdex-75 size exclusion chromatography  . Cells expressing His-SUMO-IST1316-366 were lysed by sonication in buffer  containing 50 mM Tris , pH 7 . Clarified cell lysate was incubated with 10 ml of cOmplete His-Tag purification resin  for 20 min , washed with 10 column volumes of wash buffer: 50 mM Tris , pH 7 . The His-SUMO affinity tag was removed from resin bound IST1 peptide by overnight incubation with UPL1 protease  in 40 ml of the 150 mM NaCl wash buffer at 4°C . The cleaved IST1 peptide was collected from the column flow through and further purified by anion exchange and gel filtration chromatography as described above for ULK3 proteins . Typical IST1 peptide yields were 4 . Purified IST1 and ULK3 proteins contain non-native ‘GC’ and ‘GPHM’ residues at their N-termini , respectively . Masses of purified proteins were confirmed by ESI/MS as follows: IST1313-366 calculated = 5733 Da and experimental = 5732 Da; ULK3  2 calculated = 19 , 355 Da and experimental 19 , 355 Da; ULK3  2 M434D calculated = 19 , 399 Da and experimental = 19 , 399 Da; ULK3  2 V338D calculated = 19 , 371 Da and experimental = 19 , 371 Da; ULK3 MIT2 calculated = 10 , 535 Da , and experimental = 10 , 535 Da . Uniformly enriched 13C , 15N-IST1303-366 was expressed as a TEV-cleavable GST fusion protein in 1 L of M9 minimal medium containing 2 g each of 15N-ammonium chloride and 13C-glucose . 0 , 100 mM NaCl , 1 mM DTT , and bound protein was eluted in wash buffer containing 20 mM reduced l-glutathione . Eluted 15N , 13C-IST1303-366 was dialyzed against 20 mM Tris , pH 8 . Following TEV cleavage , the IST1 peptide was dialyzed into Q-sepharose buffer: 20 mM Tris pH 8 . Fractions containing 15N , 13C-IST1303-366 were exchanged into 20 mM sodium phosphate pH 6 . The yield of purified 15N , 13C-IST1303-366 peptide was ∼1 . IST1303-366 backbone resonances were assigned using standard triple resonance experiments  from a sample containing 0 . 4 mM uniformly 13C- and 15N-enriched IST1 in 20 mM sodium phosphate pH 6 . The chemical shifts for IST1 have been deposited in the Biological Magnetic Resonance Bank under accession number 25393 . Chemical shift perturbations induced by ULK3 binding to IST1 were identified by titrating 0 . 4 mM uniformly 13C- and 15N-enriched IST1 with increasing amounts of unlabeled ULK3 to final stoichiometries of  : 0 , 0 . Chemical shifts were analyzed in NMRViewJ  , and IST1 resonances that were shifted more than ½ peak width in the bound complex were given a score of ‘+1’ . IST1 MIMs peptide  was expressed and purified as a His-SUMO fusion protein as described above . MIM1  and MIM2  peptides were synthesized , purified , and fluorescently labeled in the University of Utah Peptide Synthesis Core . Briefly , MIM1 and MIM2 peptides were synthesized on an ABI 433 synthesizer  with a cysteine at the N-terminus using Fmoc solid phase technology , common protecting groups , and HBTU chemistry on an ABI 433 synthesizer  . Labeled peptide masses were measured by MALDI-TOF-MS at the University of Utah Mass Spectrometry Core facility: dye-labeled MIMs , calculated = 6196 Da and experimental = 6192 Da; dye-labeled MIM1 , calculated = 3298 Da and experimental = 3296 Da; and dye-labeled MIM2 , calculated = 3483 Da and experimental = 3480 Da . 01% Tween-20 , and 1 mM Dithiothreitol  using 250 pM fluor-labeled IST1 peptides and twofold dilutions of ULK3 proteins . IST1 protein was mixed in a 1:1 molar ratio with native or SeMet-substituted ULK3 MIT2 protein to a final concentration of 10 mg/ml in 20 mM Tris , pH 8 . ULK3:IST1 complexes were crystallized at 21°C in sitting drops by mixing equal volumes  of protein complex solution and precipitant solution  . Initial attempts to crystallize ULK3  2  in complex with both IST1 MIMs  yielded crystals of a proteolytically truncated complex comprising ULK3 MIT2 and IST1 MIM1 fragments . The structure of this complex was determined using a data set derived from a crystal of SeMet-substituted ULK3  2 in complex with IST1 MIMs , in which both components had undergone proteolysis . The SeMet ULK3/IST1 complex was solved in space group P3121  with single-wavelength anomalous dispersion data at 0 . PHENIX   was used to locate and refine the positions for 3 of 4 possible SeMet sites in ULK3 MIT2 . Models for the three MIT molecules in the asymmetric unit were initially built into the electron density and the ULK3:IST1 models were rebuilt de novo in Coot  and refined in PHENIX . ULK3 MIT2 was expressed and purified as a recombinant protein  , and IST1 MIM1 was synthesized by the University of Utah Peptide Synthesis Core . The complex of the shorter constructs crystallized in space group R32  with a single ULK3 MIT2:IST1 MIM1 complex in the asymmetric unit and the crystal diffracted to 1 . For experiments shown in Figure 5B , Figure 5—figure supplement 1A , and Figure 7—figure supplement 1C , 293T cells were co-transfected with PEI and plasmids encoding Myc-tagged ESCRT-III proteins and OSF-ULK3 WT , or OSF-ULK3-K44H or empty vector . For IST1 , CHMP1A , CHMP1B , and CHMP3 experiments , transfections were performed in a 6-well plate seeded 18–24 hr earlier with 0 . 25 × 104 293T cells/well with the following plasmid amounts: 500 ng of OSF-ULK3 WT , 1 . 5 µg of OSF-ULK3 K44H , 1 . 5 µg Myc-IST1 , 1 µg CHMP1A-myc , 1 µg CHMP1B-myc , and 1 µg CHMP3-Myc . CHMP4C and CHMP2A experiments were performed using cell lysates from 10-cm dishes seeded at 2 . Transfections contained the following plasmid quantities: 6 µg CHMP4C-Myc , 6 µg CHMP1A-Myc and 3–4 µg OSF-ULK3 , 6 µg of OSF-ULK3 K44H , or 6 µg of empty vector . Cells were harvested 48 hr post-transfection and lysed in buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 7 . Ten 10-cm dishes of 293T cells were co-transfected  with 6 µg of plasmids expressing OSF-ULK3 or OSF-ULK3 K139R  , and 6 µg of Myc-IST1 . Transfected cells were harvested after 48 hr and lysed by sonication in 50 mM Tris pH 7 . Bound ULK3/IST1 complexes were washed once with lysis buffer containing 500 mM NaCl , three times with lysis buffer  , and eluted with lysis buffer containing 10 mM d-desthiobiotin . The OSF-ULK3 K139R/IST1 elution was additionally incubated with CIP  at 37°C for 1 hr . To identify phosphorylation sites , co-purified IST1 and ULK3 proteins were digested in solution with a TPCK-modified trypsin and Lys-C protease mixture  or chymotrypsin  . Sequence coverage of Myc-IST1 was 94% , with identified peptides encompassing 39 out of the 40 Ser and Thr residues . IST1 S4 , S99 , S153 , and S214 phosphorylations were identified in 1 , 2 , 4 , and 1 unique peptides , respectively . Phosphorylation sites were mapped onto the structure of IST1   using PyMOL  . Cells were incubated in 2 mM thymidine DMEM for 18 hr , washed with PBS , released into complete DMEM for 4 hr , and arrested in mitosis using DMEM containing 50 ng/ml nocodazole . HeLa cells stably expressing KSHV-K3  were a kind gift from Prof Paul Lehner  . HeLa KK3 cells  were seeded in a 12-well plate and transfected with siRNA  as described above . Cells were seeded in 12-well plates and transfected with siRNA  as described above . Total Tetherin-HA levels were analyzed by Western blot using α-HA and α-HSP90 antibodies , and visualized using Li-Cor secondary antibodies . 48 hr later , cells were co-transfected with an additional 100 nM of siRNA and 300 ng of HIV pNL/HXB provirus using Lipofectamine 2000 . After 48 hr , indicator HeLa-TZM-bl cells  were infected with 100 µl of harvested supernatant from 293T cells . Viral protein contents in cells and particle lysates were analyzed by Western blot using α-Gag antibody . Cells connected by midbodies were identified following tubulin staining , excluding multinucleated cells . HeLa cells stably expressing YFP/mCherry-Tubulin and/or YFP-LAP2β were seeded on poly-L-lysine coated glass-bottomed 24-well plates  and transfected with siRNA as specified . Frame-by-frame analysis was performed within NIS-Elements , where abscission time was quantified as the period between midbody formation and severing . Midbody formation was scored as the first frame where two separate cells connected by a compacted bundle of tubulin and fully reformed nuclei were observed . YFP-LAP2β expressing cells were imaged for 72 hr , and chromatin bridge resolution time was scored as the time between nuclear envelope reassembly and bridge resolution . For experiments with Aurora B inhibitor , cells at midbody stage were identified prior to treatment with 1 μM ZM447439  , when imaging was initiated . Only cells at midbody stage where followed and time to abscission was scored following the same criteria as above . "
"A process of global importance in carbon cycling is the remineralization of algae biomass by heterotrophic bacteria , most notably during massive marine algae blooms . Such blooms can trigger secondary blooms of planktonic bacteria that consist of swift successions of distinct bacterial clades , most prominently members of the Flavobacteriia , Gammaproteobacteria and the alphaproteobacterial Roseobacter clade . We investigated such successions during spring phytoplankton blooms in the southern North Sea  for four consecutive years . Dense sampling and high-resolution taxonomic analyses allowed the detection of recurring patterns down to the genus level . Metagenome analyses also revealed recurrent patterns at the functional level , in particular with respect to algal polysaccharide degradation genes . We , therefore , hypothesize that even though there is substantial inter-annual variation between spring phytoplankton blooms , the accompanying succession of bacterial clades is largely governed by deterministic principles such as substrate-induced forcing . Still , planktonic microbial communities are simple in comparison to benthic or terrestrial soil communities and thus particularly suitable for the study of microbial community composition dynamics . In recent years , continuous biodiversity studies at long-term sampling stations have started to reveal discernible deterministic patterns within marine microbial plankton communities ( see Fuhrman et al . Owing to the lack of such intensively sampled long-term time series data , our current understanding of the extent and predictability of recurring microbial biodiversity patterns for such marine habitats is still limited . A particularly important connection in the marine carbon cycle exists between marine microalgae as primary producers and heterotrophic bacteria that feed on algal biomass . Planktonic uni- to pluricellular algae such as diatoms , haptophytes , and autotrophic dinoflagellates are the most important marine primary producers . Primary production by planktonic microalgae differs from primary production by sessile macroalgae or land plants as it is much less constant , but culminates in blooms that are often massive , as occurs worldwide during spring blooms from temperate to polar regions . These blooms are highly dynamic phenomena that are time-limited by nutrients , predator grazing and viral infections . Bloom termination results in a short-lived massive release of algal organic matter that is consumed by dedicated clades of heterotrophic bacterioplankton . This trophic connection leads to synchronized blooms of planktonic bacteria during phytoplankton blooms , as has been described in various studies  . The activities of these heterotrophic bacteria impact the proportion of algal biomass that is directly mineralized and released back into the atmosphere mostly as carbon dioxide , and the algae-derived biomass that sinks out to the bottom of the sea as carbonaceous particles . However , the bulk of bacteria during phytoplankton blooms are free-living and not attached to particles or algae . The bacterial clades that respond most to phytoplankton blooms belong to the classes Flavobacteriia  and Gammaproteobacteria , and the Roseobacter clade within class Alphaproteobacteria  . This response is typically not uniform , but consists of a series of distinct clades that bloom one after another . In the year 2009 , we investigated the response of bacterioplankton to a diatom-dominated spring phytoplankton bloom in the German Bight  . Within the free-living bacteria  we observed a swift succession of bacterial clades that were dominated by Flavobacteriia and Gammaproteobacteria , with consecutively blooming Ulvibacter  , Formosa  , Reinekea  , Polaribacter  genera and SAR92  as prominent clades . Using time-series metagenome and metaproteome analyses , we demonstrated that the substrate-spectra of some of these clades were notably distinct . The succession of bacterioplankton clades hence constituted a succession of distinct gene function repertoires , which suggests that changes in substrate availability over the course of the bloom were among the forces that shaped the bacterioplankton community . Dominance of bottom-up over top-down control is assumed to be characteristic for the initial phases of spring phytoplankton blooms . When suitable temperature and sunlight conditions are met in spring , algae and subsequently bacteria can enter an almost unrestricted proliferation . Hence , top-down control by predation sets in only during later bloom phases . This situation is distinct from summer and fall phytoplankton blooms . Pronounced differences between blooming clades were found in the gene frequencies and protein expression profiles of transporters and carbohydrate-active enzymes  , such as glycoside hydrolase  , polysaccharide lyase  , carbohydrate esterase  , or carbohydrate-binding module  containing genes . Marine algae produce large quantities of distinct polysaccharides , for example storage , cell matrix and cell wall constituents , or as part of extracellular transparent exopolymer particles  . Thus , polysaccharide-degrading bacteria specialize on dedicated subsets of polysaccharides , which is why the decomposition of algal polysaccharides during and after algal blooms is a concerted effort among distinct bacterial clades with distinct glycan niches  . In this study , we provide evidence that the succession of bacterioplankton clades that we reported for the 2009 North Sea spring phytoplankton bloom re-occurred during the spring blooms from 2010 to 2012 . We tested whether the bacterioplankton clades and their associated CAZyme repertoires differ from year to year or exhibit recurrent patterns . We analyzed spring bacterioplankton community composition via 16S rRNA catalyzed reporter deposition fluorescence in situ hybridization  and 16S rRNA gene tag sequencing , as well as gene function repertoires by deep metagenome sequencing . Our efforts have culminated into the as of yet highest resolved dataset capturing the response of planktonic bacteria to marine spring phytoplankton blooms and have allowed identification of recurring patterns that might ultimately lead to an explanatory model for bacterioplankton succession dynamics during spring algae blooms . The samples were taken at Helgoland Island about 40 km offshore in the southeastern North Sea in the German Bight at the station 'Kabeltonne'  between the main island and the minor island , Düne  . During most of the year , a westerly current transports water from the English Channel alongside the Dutch and Frisian coast to Helgoland , but water around the island is also influenced by nutrient inputs from the rivers Weser and Elbe and from the northern North Sea  . Location of Helgoland Island  and the long-term ecological research site 'Kabeltonne'  in the German Bight of the North Sea . 003 Spring phytoplankton blooms in the North Sea typically develop during March and reach highest intensities during April and May . The highest chlorophyll a concentrations are usually observed at the coastlines including the area around Helgoland Island  . North Sea spring blooms are thus large-scale phenomena that are , however , influenced by local conditions , such as riverine inputs . At Helgoland island , spring phytoplankton blooms started around mid March when water temperatures surpassed 3 to 5°C  . The diatoms Chaetoceros debilis and Chaetoceros minimus , Mediopyxis helysia , Rhizosolenia styliformis and Thalassiosira nordenskioeldii , the silicoflagellate Chattonella , the haptophyte Phaeocystis and dinoflagellates dominated these blooms in terms of cell numbers  . Relative abundances of these algae varied in no apparent order during the observed blooms , and we have yet to understand the factors that determine these variations . Considering biomass , the blooms were largely dominated by the diatoms T . Blooms of these three algae were bimodal in all years with dominance of first T . helysia followed by Chattonella in 2011  and a pronounced bimodal bloom of Chattonella species in 2012  . All blooms were accompanied by a notable decrease of silicate  , which diatoms use for frustule formation ( see Yool and Tyrrell  for the controlling effect of silicate on diatom abundance ) . Physicochemical parameters , phytoplankton composition and bacterioplankton composition as assessed by CARD-FISH . Sampling: Surface seawater samples were taken at the North Sea island Helgoland between the main island and the minor island 'Düne'  using small research vessels  and processed in the laboratory of the Biological Station Helgoland within less than two hours after sampling . Physicochemical and phytoplankton data: Physicochemical parameters and phytoplankton data were assessed in subsurface water on a weekday basis as part of the Helgoland Roads LTER time series as described in Teeling et al . The Helgoland Roads time series is accessible via the public database Pangaea  and can be used to assess long-term changes of the North Sea pelagic ecosystem . Algae with large cells and thus large biovolumes are depicted by bold solid lines and algae with small cells are represented by dotted lines . Rhizosolenia styliformis and Mediopyxis helysia feature large cells , whereas Chaetoceros minimus and in particular Phaeocystis species feature small cells . Physicochemical data are summarized in Supplementary file 1 , and data on the major phytoplankton clades in Supplementary file 2 . Total cell counts and CARD-FISH of bacterioplankton: E-H: TCC  ; red triangles depict sampling of metagenomes . M-β: Recurrent bacterioplankton clades as assessed by CARD-FISH  with the following probes: M-P  : SAR11-486 and SAR11-441: alphaproteobacterial SAR11-clade; ROS537: alphaproteobacterial Roseobacter clade; GAM42a: Gammaproteobacteria; CF319a: Bacteroidetes . Q-T  : POL740: genus Polaribacter; FORM181A: genus Formosa; ULV995: genus Ulvibacter; VIS6-814: genus-level clade VIS6 within the family Cryomorphaceae-Owenweeksia; U-X  : REI731: genus Reinekea; BAL731: genus Balneatrix; ALT1413: families Alteromonadaceae and Colwelliaceae; SAR92-627: genus-level clade SAR92 . Hel1_33_131; NS3a-840: NS3 marine group; NS5/VIS1-575: VIS1 genus-level clade within the NS5 marine group; NS9-664: NS9 marine group; CYT-734: Cytophagia clade Marinoscillum . 005 Bloom maximum intensities decreased from 2009 to 2012 with chlorophyll a maxima  reaching 28 mg m-3  , 18 mg m-3  , 15 mg m-3  , and 11 mg m-3  in each respective year  . In 2010 , the peak in Chl a was broader and only four days ahead of the bacterioplankton peak abundance of 2 . In 2011 , the Chl a peak was only two days ahead of the bacterioplankton peak abundance of 2 . DAPI and CARD-FISH cell staining  showed that SAR11 dominated the bacterioplankton community in winter , but with the onset of each spring bloom relative abundances of Bacteroidetes followed by Gammaproteobacteria increased and finally surpassed those of the SAR11  . Bacteroidetes reached higher maximum relative abundances than Gammaproteobacteria , 40%  to 60%  as compared to 10%  to 30%  , respectively . Bacteroidetes genera Polaribacter , Formosa , and VIS6 , a genus-level clade within the family Cryomorphaceae  , peaked each year with relative abundances well above 5% , reaching relative abundances of up to 25% sometimes within less than a week  . Within Gammaproteobacteria the genus-level SAR92 clade responded notably in all years increasing from background levels below 1% to relative abundance of 8% to 16% . Members of the Alteromonadales families Alteromonadaceae and Colwelliaceae bloomed in three  , and genus Reinekea in two  of the years  . Some less abundant , but nevertheless recurrent taxa included the genus Balneatrix within Gammaproteobacteria with relative abundances up to 2%  . Minor recurring groups of Bacteroidetes  included the NS3a marine group  , the genus-level VIS1 clade within the NS5 marine group detected before the Chl a peaks of 2011  and 2012  , and the Cytophagia clade Marinoscillum that reached 1–3% abundance most years after initial blooms . We used complementary 16S rRNA gene tag sequencing for the detection of bacterioplankton clades that were not recovered by CARD-FISH probes  . Relative proportions of 16S tags from distinct clades correlated for the most part those inferred from CARD-FISH cell counts  , but members of SAR11 were substantially underreported - a known limitation of the 806R primer used in V4 amplification for 2010 to 2012 samples  . Additional abundant clades detected in the 16S amplicon data comprised the Flavobacteriia genus Tenacibaculum  that bloomed in 2010  and 2011  . Within Gammaproteobacteria , clades with read frequencies ≥5% in at least one year comprised the genera Aeromonas , Glaciecola , Pseudoalteromonas , Pseudomonas , Psychrobacter and the SAR86 and ZD0405 clades  . Within the alphaproteobacterial Rhodobacteriaceae , high abundances of 'Candidatus Planktomarina temperata'  and the NAC11-7 clade were detected reaching 6–21% and 7–19% of the tag data , respectively  . Also within Alphaproteobacteria the genus Sulfitobacter peaked with a read frequency of ~7% in 2010  , and within Betaproteobacteria the order Methylophilales  was detected with high relative abundances of up to ~10% before blooms , which decreased with bloom progression . This decrease corresponds to decreasing bloom intensities , which supports a proposed role of Verrucomicrobia in polysaccharide decomposition  . Bacterioplankton diversity as assessed by 16S rRNA gene tag sequencing . Sampling: Surface seawater samples were taken at the North Sea island Helgoland between the main island and the minor island 'Düne'  using small research vessels  and processed in the laboratory of the Biological Station Helgoland within less than two hours after sampling . 2 µm pore sized filters after pre-filtration with 10 µm and 3 µm pore sized filters to remove large debris and particle-associated bacteria . 2–3 µm bacterioplankton fraction was used for DNA extraction and subsequent 16S rRNA gene tag sequencing . 16S rRNA gene tag sequencing: A total of 142 samples were collected for the years 2010 to 2012 . This dataset was complemented by 16S rRNA gene tags from 7 samples from our initial study on the 2009 spring bloom  . The SAR92 clade was subsequently reclassified to comply with the recently released SILVA v123 , where the SAR92 no longer belong to the order Alteromonadales . Panel A-P depict data that are analogous to the CARD-FISH data presented in Figure 3 , with addition of the Flavobacteriia genus Tenacibaculum  . Panels Q-X show minor Gammaproteobacteria clades  and Roseobacter clades together with miscellaneous other minor clades  that were not tested by CARD-FISH probes . 006 Within Bacteroidetes , Gammaproteobacteria and Rhodobacterales a total of eleven clades peaked during at least two of the four spring blooms with relative cell abundances or , for those clades that were not assessed by CARD-FISH , relative read frequencies ≥5% . These were six Flavobacteriia clades  , three Gammaproteobacteria clades  , and two Roseobacter clades  . Each year a succession was observed within the Flavobacteriia and Gammaproteobacteria clades . The succession in the Flavobacteriia was more pronounced than in the Gammaproteobacteria , but the sequence of clades varied . Spearman rank correlation analyses revealed that the abundances of the most prominent Flavobacteriia clades were for the most part correlated with multiple algae groups and physiochemical factors  . Such limitations notwithstanding it is noteworthy that in no case a simple one-to-one relationship between specific algae and specific bacterioplankton groups was detected . The strongest significant  correlations were obtained for the Ulvibacter clade that was positively correlated with diatoms and haptophytes and negatively correlated with silicoflagellates . Further results comprised an opposite trend for the VIS1 clade of the NS5 marine group , and a correlation of Polaribacter and Chattonella abundances  . In total , 16 metagenomes of free-living bacterioplankton  were generated from time points before , during and after spring phytoplankton blooms , six during 2009 using the 454 FLX Ti platform that were published previously  and ten during 2010–2012 using the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform . Taxonomic classification of the metagenome contigs resulted in identification of major bloom-associated clade sequence bins  , including Formosa , Polaribacter , the NS3a and NS5 marine groups , and Cryomorphaceae of the Flavobacteriia and Alteromonadales , Reinekea , Glaciecola and the SAR92 clade of the Gammaproteobacteria . Clone libraries from 2009  indicated 16S rRNA similarities of only 94% and 91% , respectively , for these two clades . Other abundant clades comprised the betaproteobacterial Burkholderiales and Methylophilales  , the alphaproteobacterial SAR116 and Roseobacter NAC11-7 clade , and the gammaproteobacterial SAR86 and ZD0405 clades . Lower abundant clades comprised , amongst others , the OM60  group , the AEGEAN-169 group , and Sulfitobacter . We plotted contig GC contents versus coverage to evaluate our taxonomic classification , which in some cases allowed to assess the coherence of some of the clades  . For example , Reinekea  and the NS5 marine group  were mostly represented by distinct clusters , whereas Polaribacter  was almost always represented by at least two clusters indicating the presence of sub-populations . In general , the number of clusters increased from pre-bloom to mid-bloom situations and decreased slightly towards late bloom situations and notably towards post-bloom situations . This tendency was more evident in 2009 , the year with the highest bloom intensity and the largest number of metagenome samples spanning a broader timespan  . SAR11 for example , while highly abundant in all metagenome datasets , yielded few large contigs , possibly due to population heterogeneity and presence of hyper-variable regions described in sequenced SAR11 genomes  . Taxonomic classification of bacterioplankton metagenomesSampling: Surface seawater samples were taken at the North Sea island Helgoland between the main island and the minor island 'Düne'  and processed in the laboratory of the Biological Station Helgoland within less than two hours after sampling . 2 µm pore sized filters after pre-filtration with 10 µm and 3 µm pore sized filters to remove large debris and particle-associated bacteria . Sequencing: Community DNA was extracted and sequenced; 2009 samples were sequenced on the 454 FLX Ti platform , and 2010-2012 samples on the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform  . Reads were assembled using Newbler  or a combination of SOAPdenovo and Newbler  and the resulting contigs were taxonomically classified  . Colors are restricted to selected abundant taxa  to highlight distinct clusters , mostly from the Bacteroidetes , Alphaproteobacteria , Betaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria . The 16 metagenomes are shown arranged in order on yearly timescales that depict chlorophyll a contents as proxies for phytoplankton abundance . 007 Analyses of functional genes identified in the bacterioplankton metagenomes revealed that increases in Flavobacteriia relative abundance during blooms was always accompanied by an increase in community-wide CAZyme gene frequency as well as an increase in the diversity of CAZyme families  . As blooms subsided , CAZyme frequencies also declined . In 2012 the decline in CAZymes was not captured as the last metagenome sample was taken before the bloom decline  . Metagenome functional analyses: CAZyme , sulfatase and transporter gene frequencies . Sampling: Surface seawater samples were taken at the North Sea island Helgoland between the main island and the minor island Düne'  and processed in the laboratory of the Biological Station Helgoland within less than two hours after sampling . 2 µm pore sized filters after pre-filtration with 10 µm and 3 µm pore sized filters to remove large debris and particle-associated bacteria . 2009 samples were sequenced on the 454 FLX Ti platform , and 2010–2012 samples on the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform  . Reads were assembled using Newbler  or a combination of SOAPdenovo and Newbler  and the resulting contigs were taxonomically classified  . 1 Mbp *sums of assembled bases Data Analysis: CAZymes were predicted as consensus of searches against the CAZy , dbCAN and Pfam databases with custom E-value cutoffs  . CAZyme repertoire within the family Cryomorphaceae  at dates with high Cryomorphaceae abundances . GH and CBM frequencies were low compared to those of other abundant Flavobacteriia clades  , indicating that these Cryomorphaceae might have a distinct ecophysiological niche in which polysaccharide degradation plays a lesser role . CAZyme repertoire within the order Alteromonadales  at dates with high abundances of Alteromonadales . Nonetheless , the obtained pattern was relatively consistent across all four studied years and at some dates notably enriched in CAZymes that play a role during phytoplankton blooms such as GH13 and GH16DOI: http://dx . 010 The 20 glycoside hydrolase families with the highest mean abundances during bloom dates were , in descending order , GH3 , 23 , 13 , 16 , 103 , 73 , 92 , 2 , 17 , 30 , 5 , 20 , 36 , 65 , 29 , 1 , 42 , 31 , 81 , and 18  . The abundant families GH3 , 16 , 17 and 5 comprise β-1 , 3-glucanases and the family GH30 β-1 , 6-glucanases . The ten families of carbohydrate-binding modules with the highest mean abundances during blooms were , in descending order , CBM50 , 32 , 6 , 9 , 48 , 11 , 22 , 57 , 20 , and 4  . This suggests a pronounced specialization of the bacterial community in the acquisition of storage polysaccharides  and cell wall polysaccharides  of both algae and bacteria . Among carbohydrate esterase families , CE11 , 4 , 1 , and 14 exhibited the highest mean abundances during blooms  . Finally , the polysaccharide lyase families PL6 , 7 , 17 and 5 constituted the most abundant PL families during bloom dates  . However , gene frequencies of these PL families were an order of magnitude below those of abundant GHs , CBMs , and CEs , indicating that alginate degradation does not play a vital role in North Sea spring phytoplankton blooms . Alginate is a cell wall constituent in brown macroalgae , however , the microalgae that dominate North Sea spring blooms are devoid of alginate . For all of these GH , CBM , PL , and CE families , we observed remarkably similar gene frequency patterns during all four spring blooms , often with peaks in the same families  . Alongside CAZymes , sulfatase and TonB-dependent transporter  gene frequencies also increased during blooms while tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic  transporter genes showed an almost opposite trend  . This is in agreement with our study on the 2009 spring bloom  and furthermore demonstrates recurrence of this phenomenon during four consecutive years . Class-level analyses of the most abundant GH and CBM families  showed that Flavobacteriia not only contributed more total CAZymes to the microbial community than Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria , but also exhibited a tighter coupling between GH and CBM genes with highly similar abundance profiles  . The distribution of families was also more uneven in Flavobacteriia , indicative of a more pronounced substrate specialization compared to Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria . GH92  and GH16  genes , for example , were predominantly found in Flavobacteriia , possibly indicating more readiness to decompose mannans and chrysolaminarin . Metagenome taxonomic classification provided sufficient data for analysis of CAZyme repertoires of the flavobacterial NS5 marine group , NS3a marine group , Formosa , Polaribacter , and Cryomorphaceae , and the gammaproteobacterial Alteromonadales and Reinekea clades  . For most of these clades , the analyses revealed fingerprint-like patterns , which corroborates the hypothesis that these clades have distinct glycan niches that are relatively stable across years . For example , the NS5 marine group  was rich in GH3 , 20 and 29  , but notably devoid of GH92  . By contrast , Formosa and Polaribacter clades  contained higher abundances of GH92 genes . The Formosa CAZyme profile was also characterized by high proportions of GH16 , 17 , and 30 families , which all contain enzymes that can decompose chrysolaminarin . Polaribacter contained a broader set of CAZymes that included all families found in Formosa , however , Polaribacter was richer in GH13  and poorer in GH92  than Formosa . Likewise , the GH repertoires of the NS3a and NS5 marine groups were similar  , but the NS3a marine group was richer in GH13 and 32 and devoid of GH29 family fucosidases . The high number of CAZyme families in Polaribacter corroborated metagenome bin analyses that suggested a higher diversity within this clade . CAZyme gene frequencies were much lower in the Cryomorphaceae than in the other investigated Flavobacteriia clades with GH frequencies barely exceeding 0 . This suggests a different ecophysiological niche and a distinct role of the Cryomorphaceae during phytoplankton blooms . For Gammaproteobacteria , recurring patterns were detected for the prominent Alteromonadales and Reinekea clades . Alteromonadales contained some of the GH families that play important roles during phytoplankton blooms , such as GH13 and 16 , but were notably poor in or even devoid of others , such as GH29 and GH92 , respectively  . In contrast to other prominent clades , we did not obtain sufficient metagenome sequences for Reinekea for all four years , but only for 2009 and 2010  . However , the Reinekea CAZyme patterns of 2009 and 2010 were well conserved with high proportions of GH23 and 13 , and CBM48 , 20 , 41 , 21 , and 25 . The GH23 family comprises peptidoglycan lyases and the GH13 family contains α-1 , 4-glucanases  . Bacterioplankton communities during spring phytoplankton blooms in the coastal North Sea undergo swift and dynamic composition changes and thus are difficult to investigate . Nonetheless , we found clades that recurrently reached high abundances among Flavobacteriia  , Gammaproteobacteria  and Roseobacter clade Alphaproteobacteria  . Recurrence was not only detectable on the taxonomic but also on the functional level with a highly predictable increase in TonB-dependent polysaccharide uptake systems and distinct CAZyme patterns . The niches of abundant bacterioplankton clades are more complex and manifold than the glycan niches that we explore in this study . Our results suggest that besides stochastic also deterministic effects influence phytoplankton-bacterioplankton coupling during blooms . They indicate that during spring phytoplankton blooms similar principles of resource partitioning and specialization are at play as within human gut microbiota that decompose fiber-rich plant material , albeit at a much larger scale . Rather the availability of substrates commonly occurring in microalgae than one-to-one interactions of particular phytoplankton and bacterioplankton species caused the succession of free-living bacterioplankton clades . Physicochemical parameters  and phytoplankton data  were assessed in subsurface water on a weekday basis as part of the Helgoland Roads LTER time series . In brief , surface seawater samples were taken at the long-term ecological research station 'Kabeltonne'  at the North Sea island Helgoland using small research vessels  and processed in the laboratory of the Biological Station Helgoland within less than two hours after sampling . 2 µm pore sized filters after pre-filtration with 10 µm and 3 µm pore sized filters to remove large debris and particle-associated bacteria . Assessment of absolute cell numbers and bacterioplankton community composition was carried out as described previously  . Likewise , bacterioplankton community composition was assessed by catalyzed reporter deposition fluorescence in situ hybridization  of formaldehyde fixed cells on 0 . 50 µl aliquots of each sample were pipetted into 96-well plates and sent to the Department of Energy  Joint Genome Institute  for amplification and sequencing as follows: Sample prep was done on a PerkinElmer  Sciclone NGS G3 Liquid Handling Workstation capable of processing 96 plate-based samples in parallel , utilizing the 5 PRIME  HotMasterMix amplification kit and custom amplification primers targeting the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene using 515F  and 806R   . The resulting sequences are available from the DOE-JGI GOLD database  as part of the COGITO project  and from the NCBI short read archive   . Roche 454 16S rRNA gene tags from 2009 MIMAS  project  were reanalyzed for comparison with the Illumina-based COGITO extension project from subsequent years 2010–2012 . For 2010–2012 , raw MiSeq paired-end reads  were merged and filtered using illumina-utils  to retain only read pairs without mismatches in the overlapping regions . These high-quality Illumina tags and the 454 tags were then processed separately but with the same methods via the SILVAngs pipeline  , which includes additional quality filtering steps via alignment as well as length , ambiguity and homopolymer filters . Representative OTUs were classified to genus level against the SILVA  v119 database using BLAST with a similarity threshold =  / 2 >=93% . The SAR92 clade was reclassified according to SILVA v123 . For MIMAS samples , we retained a total of 110 , 995 454 reads across 7 samples with an average of 16 , 000 per sample . The final abundance matrix collapsed on shared taxonomy no higher than the genus level contained 1995 unique taxa  . Total community DNA of 2009 samples  was sequenced on the 454/Roche FLX Ti platform as described previously  . Metagenome sequencing of 2010–12 samples  was performed at the DOE Joint Genome Institute on the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform . Libraries were created from 100 ng environmental DNA per sample that was sheared to 270 bp using a Covaris E210  and size selected using SPRI beads  . The quantified libraries were then prepared for sequencing on the Illumina HiSeq sequencing platform utilizing a TruSeq PE Cluster Kit v3 , and Illumina’s cBot instrument to generate a clustered flowcell for sequencing . Sequencing was performed on the Illumina HiSeq2000 sequencer using TruSeq SBS sequencing Kits , v3 , following a 2x150 bp indexed run recipe . Contigs <1800 bp were re-assembled using Newbler  in attempt to generate larger contigs  . Contigs >1800 bp as well as the contigs from the Newbler assembly were combined using minimus 2  from the AMOS package  . CAZymes were automatically annotated based on HMMER searches against the Pfam v25 and dbCAN  databases and BLAST  searches against the CAZy database  using E-value cut-offs that were specifically adjusted for each CAZyme family  . Genes were only annotated as CAZymes when at least two of the search results were congruent , and CAZymes were only analyzed for contigs ≥500 bp . Taxonomic classification of the metagenome sequences into taxonomically coherent bins  was carried out with a modified version of the Taxometer approach described in  . Taxometer consolidates predictions of a set of individual sequence classification tools into a consensus using a weighted assessment on seven selected ranks  of the NCBI taxonomy  . We combined taxonomic information inferred from  Pfam hits using the CARMA3 approach  ,  BLASTp hits using the KIRSTEN approach  , and  mapping of quality-filtered  Illumina reads to selected reference sequences . In contrast to the original Taxometer approach we omitted signature-based classification with Self-Organizing Maps and mapping of reads containing partial 16S rRNA gene sequences . The prediction tools that were used are outlined below: We used the HMMER-based module of CARMA3  that infers taxonomy of sequences by post-processing genes with HMMER3 hits to the Pfam database . KIRSTEN  infers taxonomy of sequences by post-processing BLASTp hits to the NCBI nr database by means of rank-based evaluations on all levels of the NCBI taxonomy with an increasing stringency from the superkingdom down to the species level . SMALT  was used to map metagenome reads on a manually compiled set of 49 reference genomes and a streamlined version of the NCBI nr database . This was done manually for the reference genomes and automatically for the NCBI nr database as follows: Each of the hits from the UBLAST search during KIRSTEN analysis can be associated with multiple taxa , since in nr redundant sequences from different taxa are merged . We used this information to extract all taxa associated with a given hit , then combined the taxa of all hits and finally extracted all sequences of these taxa from Genbank . Only metagenome reads with at least 95% identity to any sequence in the sample-specific sequence database were used . Since contigs consist of many reads , this way , contigs were associated with multiple taxonomic paths . The Spearman rank correlation test  was used to test for correlations between Bacteroidetes clade abundances and environmental variables  and phytoplankton abundances  . Linear regressions  were done using stepwise forward regression model by using the log transformed Bacteroidetes and phytoplankton abundances . "
"Spike activity and local field potentials were recorded during task performance simultaneously from VTA and mPFC , two reciprocally connected regions implicated in reward-seeking and aversive behaviors . At the single unit level , we found that ensembles of putative dopamine and non-dopamine VTA neurons and mPFC neurons encode the relationship between action and punishment . At the network level , we found that coherent theta oscillations synchronize VTA and mPFC in a bottom-up direction , effectively phase-modulating the neuronal spike activity in the two regions during punishment-free actions . This synchrony declined as a function of punishment probability , suggesting that during reward-seeking actions , risk of punishment diminishes VTA-driven neural synchrony between the two regions . In a causally and socially complex world , appropriate representation of punishment that lurks around during reward-seeking actions is critical for survival and optimal action selection . How is risk of punishment associated with reward-seeking actions represented by the brain ? Neurons in the VTA including dopamine  and non-dopamine neurons are critical components of the reward circuitry including reward-mediated actions  . We , therefore , hypothesized that ensembles of VTA neurons represent risk of punishment associated with reward-guided behavior . Importance of VTA notwithstanding , the mPFC is also implicated in reward representation and reward-guided action selection  , as well as control of aversive and anxiety-like behavior  . Furthermore , photostimulation of the VTA DA input to the mPFC elicits anxiety-like behavior  , suggesting a more causal role for this neural circuit in aversive behavior . Given this , we further hypothesized that the interaction between VTA and mPFC provides a dynamic representation of punishment risk during reward-seeking actions . To test these hypotheses , we first designed and validated a task that allowed us to assess reward-guided actions in the absence or presence of punishment risk in the same recording session . The task was designed so that an instrumental action always procured a reward , but the same action probabilistically led to punishment with blockwise varying degrees of contingency . Thus , different blocks had varying risk of punishment associated with an action while action-reward contingency remained constant . We then recorded single unit activity and local field potentials  from the VTA and mPFC simultaneously during this task . At the single unit level , we found that VTA and mPFC neurons encode risk of punishment and blockwise/trial-by-trial behavioral modulation during action execution . At the network level , we found that coherent theta oscillations synchronize the VTA and mPFC in a bottom-up direction , effectively phase-modulating the neuronal spike activity in the two regions during punishment-free actions . This oscillation-mediated neural synchrony declined as a function of punishment risk , suggesting that desynchronization of coordinated activity in these two regions signals punishment . These increases reflect a state anxiety but not diminished motivation to obtain reward as the latency for reward retrieval  remained similar across blocks regardless of punishment  . This increase was associated with shock occurrences , since the RT varied as a function of the trial lag  from the previous shock  indicating that animals adjusted their behavior across trials even within the same block in the face of punishment risk . To examine whether the increase in RT reflected learning of action-punishment contingency or merely an immediate impact of shock , we compared RTs of early trials in block 2 and 3 , before the delivery of the 1st shock . Rats displayed a subtle but significant increase in RT in block 2 , and robust increase in block 3 before the first shock  , suggesting that there is learning of action-punishment contingency from previous experiences . During the no-shock control session , when animals performed the same number of trials and blocks in the absence of punishment , the mean RT and the variance RT did not differ across blocks  . We first examined the trial-averaged neuronal activity of mPFC , VTA putative DA , and non-DA units to compare their general tuning properties during task events – cue onset , action , and reward delivery . The majority of VTA putative DA units displayed phasic excitatory responses at each task event as has been previously reported  , whereas non-DA and mPFC units showed weaker and temporally diffuse responses  . Some of the mPFC , VTA putative DA , and non-DA single units appeared to have modulated their peri-event firing rates across blocks as a function of punishment risk . The most robust punishment encoding occurred during the peri-action epoch  given that ωPEVs during this period was greater than that of the peri-cue or peri-reward epochs  . There was a significant interaction between time and unit groups in the peri-action ωPEV  , indicating distinct time-varying patterns in representation of punishment by different unit groups . To examine the time course of individual neuronal encoding in the peri-action epoch , we recalculated the peri-action ωPEV using a narrower moving window  to reveal time points of individual neuronal representation of punishment at a higher temporal resolution . Response of VTA putative DA neurons appeared to be concentrated specifically around the time of the action , whereas non-DA and mPFC units displayed temporally diffuse patterns  . This result suggested that DA units may be involved in more precise signaling of action and punishment risk , whereas the mPFC and VTA non-DA units may represent more persistent effects of punishment on motivational/emotional states . Consistent with this function , substantial proportions of mPFC  and non-DA  units significantly modulated their baseline firing rates across blocks , suggesting that they represent punishment on a longer temporal scale  . Similar proportions of mPFC units encoded punishment with bidirectional modulation of activity  , which resulted in the lack of net excitation or suppression of activity across blocks  . The majority of VTA putative DA units encoded punishment risk with an excitatory response  specifically at the time of the action  , but not during other task events . Similarly , a greater number of non-DA punishment-encoding units displayed an excitatory modulation of activity  with a trend toward a net excitatory effect of the block  . To distinguish neuronal encoding of punishment risk from other confounding factors that may cause block-dependent changes in neuronal activity  , we performed a control experiment recording from 126 mPFC and 57 VTA single units  during performance of three consecutive punishment-free blocks . Taken together , these data indicate that both VTA and mPFC single neurons convey information about punishment risk during reward-seeking behavior . Moreover , we observed distinct temporal and directional tuning properties from mPFC , VTA putative DA , and non-DA neuronal subpopulations . This heterogeneity may enable the VTA-mPFC circuit to represent diverse motivational/emotional aspects of punishment risk . Our behavioral data indicated remarkable trial-to-trial variability of RT in the face of punishment risk  . To better understand the relationship between the behavioral and neural data , we examined whether , and to what extent , RT variability is related to mPFC and VTA neuronal activity . As an alternative approach , we used a neuronal population state space analysis that detected patterns of activity co-modulation in simultaneously recorded mPFC or VTA populations  . Examining the correlation between the neural population trajectory and the RT across trials revealed that mPFC and VTA population trajectories track trial-to-trial variation in RT  . Significant correlations were observed specifically in the riskiest block in two of the four mPFC populations  , indicating that the neural and behavioral correlation emerged as the behavioral variability arose along with risk of punishment . Consistent with the lack of correlation observed in the absence of risk , there was no significant correlation between mPFC and VTA population activity and RT  . These results indicate that distinct neuronal population activity track trial-to-trial variation of reward-seeking behavior in the presence , but not the absence , of punishment risk . We , therefore , examined oscillation-mediated neural synchrony during reward-seeking behavior in the absence and presence of punishment risk . During punishment-free performance in block 1 , theta oscillations in the frequency band of 5 to 15 Hz emerged in mPFC and VTA before and during action execution  . Theta oscillations appeared to be coherent between the two regions during the punishment-free action , but the coherence significantly decreased as a function of punishment  . To examine mutual influences  of LFP time series between the two regions , we quantified Granger causal influences  in VTA-to-mPFC and mPFC-to-VTA directions  . During punishment-free action in block 1 , the theta oscillation was driven by VTA , as mPFC was GC influenced by VTA significantly greater than the GC influence in the other direction  . Importantly post hoc analysis revealed significantly greater VTA-to-mPFC directionality in frequency bands including the theta band in block 1 , and the directionality became less apparent in blocks 2 and 3  . Taken together , these results suggest that the VTA-driven theta oscillation entrains the VTA-mPFC circuit during punishment-free action . Decline in this entrainment may represent punishment risk , since power , coherence , and directionality of the theta oscillation declined as a function of punishment risk . Analyses of no-shock control data revealed that these punishment-dependent changes in the VTA-mPFC theta oscillations do not occur in the absence of punishment  . Within each region , substantial proportion of single units  showed significant phase-locking to local theta oscillation in the punishment-free block 1 . To examine the modulation of LFP-spike phase-locking by punishment , we compared PLVs across different blocks . A trend toward reduction in PLV was found in block 3 compared with block 1 in mPFC  , and a significant reduction was found in VTA  . Likewise , a trend toward reduction in the proportion of phase-locked units was observed in block 3 compared with block 1 in mPFC  , and a significant reduction was found in VTA  . We next examined VTA putative DA and non-DA neuronal phase-locking separately . The DA neuronal PLV in block1 significantly declined as a function of punishment contingency in block 2 and 3  , whereas non-DA neuronal PLV did not differ across blocks  . These indicated that the punishment risk-induced reduction in the VTA neuronal phase-locking was predominately due to the reduction in DA neuronal synchrony . Next we examined LFP-spike phase-locking between VTA and mPFC . Based on the Granger causal influence indicating VTA-to-mPFC directionality in theta oscillations , we anticipated a stronger mPFC neuronal synchrony to VTA than that of the other direction . Consistent with this , we found that a substantial proportion of mPFC units  were phase-locked to VTA theta oscillation in block 1 . These indicate that mPFC neurons are entrained by the preceding VTA theta oscillatory cycles suggesting VTA-to-mPFC directionality . When compared across blocks , the mPFC neuronal entrainment by the VTA theta oscillation declined as a function of punishment contingency  . Finally , we examined VTA neuronal phase-locking to the mPFC theta oscillation . The degree of VTA neuronal phase-locking to mPFC theta oscillation was weaker than the mPFC neuronal phase-locking to the VTA theta oscillation  , indicating VTA-to-mPFC directionality in the theta oscillation-mediated spike phase modulation  . Collectively , these analyses indicate that a coherent theta oscillation transiently synchronizes the VTA-mPFC neural network during reward-guided actions and that this synchrony declines when there is a risk of punishment associated with those actions  . Using a novel behavioral paradigm that assessed punishment risk during reward-guided behavior , we found that the majority of VTA and mPFC neurons respond to punishment risk by modulating their firing rates . This suggests that neurons in both structures preferentially encode risk of punishment during reward-seeking actions . Given the relatively low probability and modest experience of punishment in the present task , one may wonder to what extent animals were cognizant of the punishment contingency on the action . Our data suggest that the punishment based behavioral changes is due to both learning of action-punishment contingency and state-dependent effects of punishment . These suggest that pronounced changes in neural activity within the peri-action epoch may reflect changes in action-punishment contingency . We also observed a correlation between behavior and neuronal responses as behavioral variability increased with risk of punishment suggesting that the direct impact of shock experiences may contribute , in part , to behavioral and neural changes irrespective of learned contingency . On short timescales , real-time neural processing of punishment may be important to signal contingency of punishment on a specific event in order to promote rapid behavioral adaptation . Importantly , the DA neuronal encoding of punishment was concentrated around the time of the action compared with other task epochs , suggesting that DA neuronal signaling of punishment may primarily reflect the action-punishment contingency . We found that mPFC and VTA non-DA neurons display temporally diffuse encoding of punishment within the peri-action window . Likewise , many of the mPFC and non-DA neurons showed significant modulation of their baseline firing rates , suggesting that these neurons may encode punishment with persistent changes in activity . Subpopulations of VTA putative DA , non-DA , and mPFC neurons responded to punishment risk by increasing or decreasing their peri-action firing rates . While heterogeneous response patterns have been widely observed in PFC neurons that respond to punishment  , there is some debate on whether the VTA DA neurons respond to punishment with excitatory or inhibitory responses  . These neurons responded to punishment-free  actions with phasic excitation , which decreased as a function of punishment risk . In contrast , a greater proportion of putative DA neurons showed excitatory responses to punishment; that is , they treated appetitive and aversive components in the same direction , and responded to actions prone to punishment with further excitation . We observed that excitatory representation of punishment risk was predominant among DA neurons , suggesting that risk of punishment is not simply encoded as reduced value of the action . Combination of these factors may comprise the excitatory DA neuronal encoding of punishment-prone actions we observed . These patterns of state dependency in DA neural responses to aversion are in line with our observation of excitatory encoding of punishment when risk was taken for reward in a highly rewarding context . At the network level , we observed that coherent theta oscillation synchronizes VTA and mPFC specifically during punishment-free actions , effectively phase-modulating the neuronal spike activity in the two regions . That is , VTA-driven theta oscillation entrained mPFC LFPs and neuronal spike activity during punishment-free actions . The theta oscillation preferentially entrained putative DA neurons but much fewer non-DA neurons in the VTA . Considering the phasic excitatory responses of DA neurons during action , the theta oscillation-mediated neural synchrony may promote phase-coupling between VTA DA and mPFC neurons selectively during reward-seeking behavior when there is no risk of punishment . Thus , prediction of punishment can be inferred by dual alterations in the phase and the rate of the DA neurotransmission in the mPFC  . Our data showing preferential DA  neuronal phase-locking with VTA and mPFC theta oscillations supports the theoretical model suggesting that the VTA DA input may play a crucial role for cortical theta oscillations  . Establishing the causality of VTA DA neuron driving mPFC theta oscillation , however , would require future experiments with pharmacological or optogenetic manipulation of specific cell types . While somewhat out of the scope of the present study , it is noteworthy that theta oscillations in the mPFC and/or VTA have been related to the hippocampal theta oscillation  . Local infusion of DA in mPFC enhances theta oscillations and coherence between mPFC and hippocampus  , while both mPFC and VTA neurons exhibit phase coherence to the hippocampal theta oscillation  . Thus , the theta-mediated neural synchrony we observed in the VTA-mPFC circuit may be coupled with the hippocampal theta oscillation , including the possibility that the theta oscillation are led by the hippocampus and/or a third structure . The distinct behavioral states associated with 4 Hz oscillations in these studies taken together with theta oscillations observed in our study may suggest that mPFC is entrained by different bands of oscillations in appetitive vs aversive states . However , the 4 Hz oscillation in the VTA-mPFC circuit has also been associated with working memory  . The fast vs slow mPFC oscillations occurring in appetitive vs aversive states may arise in preferential synchrony with VTA or amygdala in appetitive vs aversive states , thereby the bottom-up information transfer from the two subcortical regions can be routed depending on the behavioral context . This scenario would predict that the theta-oscillation-mediated VTA-mPFC synchrony decreases in the presence of punishment while 4 Hz oscillation increases in the mPFC . Consistent with this , we observed that mPFC theta-oscillation-mediated synchrony significantly declined as a function of action-punishment contingency . Likewise , our data may reflect the rise and fall of coherent VTA and mPFC neuronal ensembles that may promote a flexible control of instrumental behavior as a function of punishment contingency . Our data reveal dynamic coding schemes of the VTA-mPFC neural networks in representing risk of punishment and punishment-based modulation of rewarded actions . Microelectrode arrays were surgically implanted in ipsilateral mPFC and VTA  or bilateral mPFC  of isoflurane-anesthetized rats  . After completion of three FR1 sessions consisting of 150 trials in 60 mins , rats underwent a no-shock control recording session , in which they performed 150 trials of nose pokes divided into three blocks in the absence of punishment risk  . To minimize generalization of the action-punishment contingency across blocks , they were organized in an ascending shock probability order – Block1: 0 , Block2: 0 . Also , animals completed two sessions of this task before the recording session , thus the shock occurrence and the task design including the ascending punishment contingency were not novel to them at the time of the recording session . "
"Amines are also potent odors , with some activating olfactory trace amine-associated receptors  . Here , we report that teleost TAARs evolved a new way to recognize amines in a non-classical orientation . Chemical screens de-orphaned eleven zebrafish TAARs , with agonists including serotonin , histamine , tryptamine , 2-phenylethylamine , putrescine , and agmatine . Receptors from different clades contact ligands through aspartates on transmembrane α-helices III  or V  , and diamine receptors contain both aspartates . Non-classical monoamine recognition evolved in two steps: an ancestral TAAR acquired Asp5 . In vertebrates , biogenic amines include adrenaline , serotonin , acetylcholine , histamine , and dopamine , and these biogenic amines can be detected by G Protein-Coupled Receptors  expressed on the plasma membrane of target cells . The biochemical and structural basis for biogenic amine recognition by GPCRs is well understood and involves an essential salt bridge between the ligand amino group and a highly conserved aspartic acid on the third transmembrane α-helix of the receptor   . 32 in adrenaline , serotonin , acetylcholine , histamine , and dopamine receptors eliminates amine recognition  , and GPCRs that recognize amines through another motif have not been identified . Trace amine-associated receptors  are a family of vertebrate GPCRs distantly related to biogenic amine receptors  . There are 15 TAARs in mouse , 6 in human , and 112 in zebrafish , and in these or related species , all TAARs except TAAR1 function as olfactory receptors  . All human TAARs  , most mouse TAARs  , and some zebrafish TAARs  retain Asp3 . 32 , suggesting that many TAARs would recognize amines . High throughput chemical screens yielded ligands for TAAR1  and many olfactory TAARs that retain Asp3 . 32 , including TAAR3 , TAAR4 , TAAR5 , TAAR7s , TAAR8s , TAAR9 , and TAAR13c  . In mouse , TAAR4 detects the aversive carnivore odor 2-phenylethylamine  , while TAAR5 detects the attractive and sexually dimorphic mouse odor trimethylamine  . Knockout mice lacking TAAR4 and TAAR5 lose behavioral responses to TAAR ligands identified in cell culture studies  . The selectivity of olfactory TAARs for particular amine odors suggests structural variability within the ligand-binding pocket across the TAAR family . One clade of TAARs  detects primary amines derived by amino acid decarboxylation , while a second clade  prefers tertiary amines  . Structural models and mutagenesis studies of TAAR1 , TAAR7e , and TAAR7f predicted that ligand binding occurs in the membrane plane , Asp3 . A third TAAR clade  arose in fish , and includes the majority  of zebrafish TAARs  . Most clade III TAARs lack Asp3 . More generally , ligands are known for only one zebrafish TAAR , TAAR13c , which retains Asp3 . Structure-activity analysis revealed that TAAR13c preferentially recognizes odd-chained , medium-sized diamines , and likely contains two distinct cation recognition sites within the ligand-binding pocket  . However , the structural basis for diamine recognition by TAAR13c was unknown . Here , we find that TAAR13c recognizes cadaverine through two remote transmembrane aspartic acids , Asp3 . A TAAR13c variant with a charge-neutralizing mutation at Asp5 . 42 together form a general di-cation recognition motif , and note this motif to be present in several zebrafish , mouse , and human TAARs . 42 is retained in 84 out of 85 zebrafish TAARs that lack Asp3 . 32 , raising the possibility that these receptors recognize amines positioned in a non-canonical inverted orientation with the amino group pointing towards transmembrane α-helix V . Using a high throughput chemical screening approach , we identified ligands for eleven additional zebrafish TAARs , and found that different receptors detect amines through salt bridge contacts at Asp3 . TAAR10a , TAAR10b , TAAR12h , and TAAR12i are Asp3 . 32-containing clade I TAARs that detect serotonin , tryptamine , 2-phenylethylamine , and 3-methoxytyramine , while TAAR16c , TAAR16e , and TAAR16f are Asp5 . 42-containing clade III TAARs that detect N-methylpiperidine , N , N-dimethylcyclohexylamine , and isoamylamine . TAAR13a , TAAR13d , TAAR13e , and TAAR14d have both Asp3 . Furthermore , new TAAR ligands include several biogenic amines for which other receptors were identified , including serotonin , histamine , and 2-phenylethylamine . To gain structural insights into diamine recognition by the cadaverine receptor TAAR13c , we generated a TAAR13c homology model  based on the X-ray crystal structure of agonist-bound β2 adrenergic receptor   . The β2 adrenergic receptor is the closest homolog  of TAAR13c for which an active-state structure is currently available . The homology model of TAAR13c indicated a canonical fold of seven transmembrane α-helices with ligand bound at the core . One cadaverine amino group of the docked ligand was located near Asp1123 . 32 , which corresponds to the highly conserved amine-contact site in biogenic amine receptors . The other cadaverine amino group was positioned at the opposing end of the ligand-binding pocket , 3 Å away from another aspartate , Asp2025 . 42 in several other GPCRs directly contacts ligands through hydrogen bonds , salt bridges , or van der Waals interactions  , and our homology model suggests a role for this amino acid in ligand recognition by TAAR13c . Diamine recognition sites in the cadaverine receptor TAAR13c . Structural modeling of zebrafish TAAR13c bound to cadaverine  reveals two aspartates  with carboxylates  predicted to form salt bridges to ligand amino groups  . Cartoon of zebrafish TAAR13c topology depicts the location of D1123 . 42 abrogates cadaverine responsiveness of zebrafish TAAR13c expressed in HEK-293 cells  . 42 mutation transforms TAAR13c from a diamine receptor into a monoamine receptor  . Functional analysis and structural modeling of TAAR13c mutants . Structural modeling of TAAR13c bound to cadaverine  reveals residues within 5 Å of the amino group pointing towards transmembrane α-helix 5 . 32 eliminates cadaverine responsiveness in TAAR13c . 32 mutant of TAAR13c , incubated with cadaverine or 3-methoxytyramine at various concentrations , and assayed for phosphatase activity  . Structural modeling of wild type TAAR13c bound to cadaverine  and the TAAR13c D202A5 . 004 We used an established reporter gene assay  to query the response properties of TAAR13c variants with charge-neutralizing mutations at Asp3 . HEK-293 cells were co-transfected with plasmids encoding TAARs and a cAMP-dependent reporter gene encoding secreted alkaline phosphatase  . As previously published with this paradigm  , cadaverine robustly activated TAAR13c , with a half maximal response occurring at ~10 μM . In contrast , cadaverine failed to activate either the TAAR13cD112A or TAAR13cD202A mutant at any concentration tested , up to 1 mM  . We tested 50 chemicals for the ability to activate TAAR13cD202A , and identified the monoamine 3-methoxytyramine as an agonist  . 3-methoxytyramine failed to activate wild type TAAR13c at any concentration tested . 42 transformed TAAR13c from a diamine receptor into a monoamine receptor . The altered ligand-binding preference of the TAAR13cD202A mutant suggests that Asp5 . 42 contributes directly to the ligand-binding pocket , and homology modeling of TAAR13cD202A bound to 3-methoxytyramine  supports a direct interaction between this site and ligand . 42 in TAAR13c forms a salt bridge to a cadaverine amino group . Biogenic amine receptors use Asp3 . 32 to contact primary amines  , and Asp5 . 32 is also observed in all 4 mouse histamine receptors , while Asp5 . Histamine is di-cationic at low pH , and the polar imidazole group of the histamine ligand is predicted to contact a transmembrane α-helix 5 asparagine in histamine receptor H1  and transmembrane α-helix 5 anions in histamine receptors H2  , H3  , and H4   . 42 is highly conserved in clade III TAARs . 42  across various biogenic receptor subfamilies in mouse , as well as TAARs in mouse , rat , humans , and zebrafish . Two mouse , rat , and human TAARs have Asp5 . Phylogenetic analysis of the TAAR family in zebrafish  , mice  , rats  , and humans  ; scale bar = 0 . TAARs containing only Asp3 . Mammalian TAARs with Asp3 . 32-containing rodent TAARs and the one zebrafish TAAR , TAAR19f , that lacks both Asp3 . Phylogenetic analysis of the TAAR family in fish  and tetrapods  ; scale bar = 0 . TAARs containing only Asp3 . Using the phylogenetic tree in Figure 2—figure supplement 1B as a template , TAARs are highlighted from individual fish species indicated  , as well as from zebrafish and tetrapods  ; scale bar = 0 . TAARs containing only Asp3 . 007 Most mammalian TAARs retain Asp3 . 32 , including 6/6 human TAARs , 13/15 mouse TAARs , and 15/17 rat TAARs . In mouse and rat , two TAAR7s have conservative changes of Asp3 . 42 of TAAR13c , and Asp5 . These mammalian TAARs are candidates to function as diamine receptors; however , ligands have not been identified for these receptors , perhaps due to difficulties in achieving their functional expression in heterologous cells . Mice lack a TAAR13c ortholog , yet a role for other TAARs in diamine recognition is supported by the finding that mice lacking all olfactory TAARs fail to avoid cadaverine odor  . Analysis of the zebrafish TAAR repertoire surprisingly revealed that in contrast to mammalian TAARs and biogenic amine receptors , the vast majority of zebrafish TAARs  have an aspartate at position 5 . 32 , including TAAR13c , while most  have lost Asp3 . In several other fish species such as medaka , stickleback , fugu , and salmon , most TAARs also contain Asp5 . Phylogenetic analysis indicates that TAARs containing Asp5 . 32 are clade III TAARs found in teleosts , and constitute a large branch of the TAAR family tree  . Zebrafish lack clade II TAARs , and the teleost TAAR family evolved differently from mammalian TAARs by forming the large cohort of clade III TAARs . Several TAARs with both Asp5 . 32 reside between clade I TAARs and clade III TAARs phylogenetically  , suggesting that clade III TAARs derived from clade I TAARs by first gaining Asp5 . Ligands for clade III TAARs were unknown , and since they lack the canonical amine recognition site , were proposed to detect chemicals other than amines  . 42 in clade III TAARs lacking Asp3 . 32 raised the possibility that the corresponding 84 olfactory receptors in zebrafish indeed detect amines , but do so with ligands positioned in a non-classical orientation . We used the high throughput reporter gene assay to identify agonists for additional zebrafish TAARs  . Responses of 63 zebrafish TAARs were examined , including at least one representative from each TAAR subfamily in the zebrafish olfactory system  . Zebrafish TAARs were expressed as fusion proteins containing the N-terminal 20 amino acids of bovine rhodopsin , which enhances cell surface expression of some chemosensory receptors in heterologous cells  . As above , HEK-293 cells or Hana3A cells   were transfected with plasmids encoding zebrafish TAARs and Cre-Seap , incubated with test chemicals , and assayed for reporter phosphatase activity . TAAR ligand identification in heterologous cells has been extensively validated; TAAR ligands identified by this technique also activate TAAR-containing neurons in vivo  , and behavioral responses to identified TAAR ligands are lost in TAAR knockout mice  . Here , we used the heterologous expression approach to identify the first ligands for zebrafish TAAR10a , TAAR10b , TAAR12h , TAAR12i , TAAR13a , TAAR13d , TAAR13e , TAAR14d , TAAR16c , TAAR16e , and TAAR16f . Identifying the first ligands for several zebrafish TAARs . HEK-293 cells were cotransfected with Cre-Seap and plasmids encoding zebrafish TAARs , incubated with test chemicals  , and assayed for phosphatase activity using a fluorescent substrate  . Zebrafish TAAR10a and TAAR12h are clade I TAARs containing Asp3 . 42  , zebrafish TAAR13a , TAAR13c , TAAR13d , and TAAR13e , and TAAR14d contain both Asp5 . 32  , and zebrafish TAAR16c is a clade III TAAR containing Asp5 . Functional expression of TAAR10b , TAAR12i , and TAAR16e in Hana3A cells . Hana3A cells were co-transfected with Cre-Seap and TAAR-encoding plasmids , incubated with ligands , and assayed for phosphatase activity  . Structure-function studies of zebrafish clade I TAARs: TAAR10a and TAAR12h . HEK-293 cells were co-transfected with Cre-Seap and TAAR-encoding plasmids , incubated with ligands , and assayed for phosphatase activity . 010 Ligands for clade I TAARs . TAAR10a , TAAR10b , TAAR12h , and TAAR12i are clade I TAARs that retain Asp3 . TAAR10a sensitively detects serotonin  , has significantly reduced affinity for the related indole amines 5-methoxytryptamine  and tryptamine  , and does not detect other chemicals examined  . The highest affinity ligand identified for TAAR12h was 2-phenylethylamine  , and TAAR12h also detects other alkyl amines with reduced sensitivity  . TAAR10b and TAAR12i detect the primary amines tryptamine and 3-methoxytyramine respectively  . Zebrafish lack an ortholog of mouse TAAR4 , which detects 2-phenylethylamine  , and mouse TAAR4 shares 41% identity with zebrafish TAAR12h . Likewise , zebrafish TAAR10a is distantly related to mouse serotonin receptors , sharing 27–35% identity . It is thought that the TAAR family derived from an ancestral duplicate of serotonin receptor subtype HTR4  , and it is possible that either TAAR10a retains the ligand recognition properties of the ancestral TAAR or that serotonin responsiveness was lost and then re-gained in this lineage . Seven zebrafish TAARs retain both Asp3 . 42 , including all five TAAR13s and two TAAR14s  . We previously found that zebrafish TAAR13c detects the diamine cadaverine  , and now report that zebrafish TAAR13a , TAAR13d , TAAR13e , and TAAR14d also detect chemicals with two cations . TAAR13d prefers medium-chained alkyl diamines with highest affinity for putrescine  , and progressively reduced affinity for diamines with additional methylene groups  . TAAR13d has ~3 , 000-fold reduced sensitivity for diaminopropane , which is only one methylene group shorter than putrescine , indicating a strict minimal agonist length . The differing preference of TAAR13c and TAAR13d for cadaverine and putrescine respectively is consistent with cross-adaptation studies indicating that separate olfactory receptors detect these two diamines  . Structure-activity studies of zebrafish TAARs . Zebrafish TAAR13d displays highest affinity for putrescine among tested ligands , and reduced affinity for longer or shorter diamines . Zebrafish TAAR16c recognizes several structurally related amines but not oxygen-containing analogs  . Dose-dependent responses of TAAR16c for N-methylpiperidine and tetrahydropyran . Zebrafish TAAR16f recognizes isoamylamine  but not isoamyl alcohol  at 1 mM . Dose-dependent responses of TAAR16f for isoamylamine and isoamyl alcohol  . Several TAARs detect amines but not amino acids . HEK-293 cells were co-transfected with Cre-Seap and TAAR-encoding plasmids , incubated with ligands , and assayed for phosphatase activity  . Structure-function studies of the zebrafish clade III TAAR , TAAR16c . HEK-293 cells were co-transfected with Cre-Seap and plasmid encoding TAAR16c , incubated with ligands , and assayed for phosphatase activity  . 013 Histamine is an agonist for both TAAR13a  and TAAR13d  . TAAR13d recognizes other alkyl diamines of medium length  , while TAAR13a is selective for histamine among tested ligands . TAAR13a and TAAR13d share only 18–28% identity with mouse histamine receptors , and the recognition of histamine by olfactory receptors is likely due to convergent evolution within the GPCR family . Agmatine also activates multiple TAARs , including TAAR13e with higher affinity  and TAAR14d with reduced affinity  . Agmatine is derived from arginine by decarboxylation , reminiscent of several other TAAR ligands that are biogenic amines similarly derived from natural amino acids  . TAARs that detect agmatine , histamine , serotonin , 2-phenylethylamine , or isoamylamine  are not activated by the natural amino acids from which their ligands were derived  . Ligands for clade III TAARs . Next , we found ligands for three clade III TAARs that lack Asp3 . Despite the absence of the classical amine recognition motif present in all known amine-detecting GPCRs , zebrafish TAAR16c , TAAR16e , and TAAR16f detect amines . Zebrafish TAAR16c detects N-methylpiperidine  , zebrafish TAAR16e detects N , N-dimethylcyclohexylamine  , and zebrafish TAAR16f detects isoamylamine  . Removing the amino group of TAAR16c and TAAR16f ligands abolished responses  . TAAR16c also detected N-methylpyrrolidine  , and the corresponding secondary amines piperidine and pyrrolidine were partial agonists . In contrast , oxygen-containing analogs , tetrahydropyran and tetrahydrofuran did not activate TAAR16c at any concentration tested , indicating that the amine is essential for receptor agonism . Likewise , TAAR16f failed to detect isoamyl alcohol , and thus TAAR16f agonism also required a ligand amine . These studies indicate that these clade III TAARs are in fact amine receptors , and that the ligand amino group is an essential moiety recognized by the receptor . 42 are essential for cadaverine detection by TAAR13c  , and here asked if the corresponding residues are required for activation of other fish TAARs  . 32 in clade I TAARs , TAAR10a and TAAR12h , completely eliminated responses to serotonin and 2-phenylethylamine respectively , while charge-neutralizing mutation of Asp5 . 42 in clade III TAARs , TAAR16c and TAAR16f , completely eliminated responses to N-methylpiperidine and isoamylamine respectively . 42 in TAAR13a , TAAR13d , TAAR13e , and TAAR14d reduced or abolished responses to all di-cationic ligands . The asymmetric diamines histamine and agmatine could be positioned in either orientation , with the primary amine contacting either Asp3 . These mutagenesis studies reveal that clade I TAARs and clade III TAARs require different transmembrane aspartates for amine recognition . Dose-dependent responses of zebrafish TAARs and charge-neutralizing TAAR mutants . 42 in nine 'de-orphaned' zebrafish TAARs , as well as preferred ligands and corresponding EC50s , are depicted . Dose-dependent activation of TAARs and TAAR mutants by ligands indicated  . 32 is lacking in clade III TAARs  and D5 . 014 Homology models of serotonin-bound TAAR10a and N-methylpiperidine-bound TAAR16c were generated  , as described previously for cadaverine-bound TAAR13c  . TAAR10a is a clade I TAAR and homology modeling indicated proximity of the serotonin amino group to Asp1173 . In contrast , TAAR16c is a clade III TAAR , and homology modeling indicated ligand inversion with the N-methylpiperidine amino group near Asp1925 . Inverting the ligand orientation in clade III TAARs would be expected to impact other ligand-receptor contacts; to test this model , we attempted to engineer such a ligand inversion in a canonical biogenic amine receptor , serotonin receptor 6  . We analyzed the ligand preference of an HTR6 double mutant  in which the canonical amine recognition site at Asp3 . 32 was neutralized and a non-canonical amine recognition site at Asp5 . Ligand-identification studies revealed that the HTR6 double mutant no longer recognized serotonin , but instead recognized a different amine , ethanolamine  . Re-orienting the ligand amine towards Asp5 . 42 forms a non-classical amine interaction site in GPCRs , and this site is present throughout a large clade of olfactory receptors . Structural modeling of zebrafish TAAR10a and TAAR16c bound to serotonin and N-methylpiperidine  respectively . A model for the birth of a large clade of olfactory receptors with non-classical amine recognition . We propose that clade III TAARs evolved a non-classical mode of amine recognition in two steps . First , an ancestral TAAR gained the ability to recognize diamines by acquiring Asp5 . Subsequently , a diamine-detecting TAAR lost the canonical amine recognition site , Asp3 . Extensive gene duplication and mutation expanded and diversified clade III TAARs , leading to a large clade of olfactory receptors with non-canonical amine-detection properties . In some lineages , receptor families can be reduced or die out , such as vomeronasal receptors in humans  or sweet receptors in carnivores  , while in other lineages new receptor families can be born , such as formyl peptide receptors in rodents  . Zebrafish generally use the same families of olfactory receptors as other vertebrates , including odorant receptors , vomeronasal receptors , and TAARs  . The TAAR repertoire in mice and humans is relatively small , representing 1–2% of all main olfactory receptors . However , zebrafish have comparable numbers of TAARs  and odorant receptors  , and expansion of the teleost TAAR family suggests a relatively expanded role for TAARs in fish chemosensation . However , prior to this study , ligands were known for only one fish TAAR  . Moreover , the vast majority of zebrafish TAARs lack the canonical amine recognition motif , and the classes of ligands they might detect were unknown . Here , we show that almost all zebrafish TAARs  contain either a canonical amine-detection site on transmembrane α-helix III  , a non-canonical amine-detection site on transmembrane α-helix V  , or both . Thus , teleost TAARs likely represent a very large family of diverse amine receptors . Several zebrafish TAAR ligands are biogenic amines produced during tissue decomposition  . Future studies are needed to examine the roles of each TAAR and its ligands in fish behavior . Here , we propose a two-step model for the functional evolution of clade III TAARs that is based on phylogenetic analysis , ligand identification studies , structural modeling , and mutagenesis  . First , an ancestral clade I TAAR gained Asp5 . Ligands were identified for five zebrafish TAARs that retain Asp3 . Second , a diamine receptor lost Asp3 . 32 , leading to clade III TAARs that display non-classical monoamine recognition through a transmembrane α-helix V salt bridge to Asp5 . Flipping the amine orientation dramatically changes GPCR-ligand contacts , and presumably allows clade III TAARs to sample a distinct repertoire of structurally divergent amine odors . Once the new amine recognition motif was established , clade III TAARs dramatically expanded through a pattern of gene duplication and subsequent mutation . It seems likely that the massive expansion of this olfactory receptor clade increased the capacity of the fish olfactory system to detect amines , which are water-soluble and ecologically important stimuli for aquatic animals . Zebrafish Taar genes were cloned from zebrafish genomic DNA  , and inserted into a modified pcDNA3 . Sequencing Taar genes revealed several AB strain polymorphisms as compared with Tübingen strain-derived genomic sequences deposited at NCBI . Amino acid-altering polymorphisms identified were as follows: Taar10a  : A467G  and G545A  ; Taar10b  : A338G  , G496A  , G544A  , and G775A  ; Taar12h  : A23G  , T26C  , C62T  , C285A  , T743A  , C874T and G875A  ; Taar12i  : T23C  , G313T , T314A  , and T583G  ; Taar13a  : C427G  , T680A  , T803G  , T882C  , and T948C  ; Taar13d  : A112G  , A196C  , G382A  , and G559A  ; Taar13e  : A643G  and G796A  ; Taar16c  : A797C  ; Taar16e  : T103C  , G711A , C712T  , and C844T  ; Taar16f  : A23T  , A59G  , C190A  , A202T  , and A951C  . Taar mutants were generated by overlap extension PCR and the Htr6 mutant was generated using TagMaster site-directed mutagenesis kit  . To identify TAAR agonists , chemicals were simultaneously tested in mixtures  . Mix 1 contained GABA , β-alanine , 2-aminopentane , benzylamine , butylamine , and cystamine; mix 2 contained dibutylamine , dimethylamine , N , N-dimethylcyclohexylamine , ethylamine , ethyleneamine , and ethanolamine; mix 3 contained hexylamine , isoamylamine , isobutylamine , isopropylamine , indole , and cadaverine; mix 4 contained methylamine , N-methylindole , N-methylpyrrolidine , N-methylpiperidine , pyrrolidine , and putrescine; mix 5 contained hexanal , ethyl butyrate , tryptamine , histamine , 2-phenylethylamine , and trimethylamine; mix 6 contained 2-methylbutylamine , cysteamine , 1-amino propan-2-ol , 3-methylthiopropylamine , and agmatine; mix 7 contained tyramine , N , N-dimethylethanolamine , octopamine , N , N-dimethylglycine , 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid , and 3-methoxytyramine; mix 8 contained 5-methoxytryptamine , 4-methoxy phenethylamine , N , N-dimethylphenethylamine , 5-methoxy-N , N-dimethyltryptamine , N , N-dimethylaniline , N , N-dimethylisopropylamine; mix 9 contained 1-dimethylamino propanol , 2-dimethylaminoethanethiol , and 1-  -pyrrolidine; mix 10 contained 1 , 7-diaminoheptane , 1 , 8-diaminooctane , 1 , 6-diaminohexane , 1 , 10-diaminodecane , 1 , 3-diaminopropane; and mix 11 contained spermine , spermidine , dopamine , serotonin , and adenine . TAARs were tested with all 11 chemical mixtures , except TAAR14 , TAAR15 , and TAAR16 family members which were tested with mixes 1–10 . Amino acid sequences of 112 zebrafish TAARs , 15 mouse TAARs , 17 rat TAARs , 6 human TAARs , 12 biogenic amine receptors  and 5 odorant receptors  were aligned with MAFFT v7 . For Figure 2—figure supplements 1 , 2 , published TAAR amino acid sequences from opossum , cow , chicken , frog , coelacanth , medaka , stickleback , tetraodon , fugu , Atlantic salmon , and elephant shark , as well as sea lamprey aminergic receptors , were analyzed  . The TAAR13c structural model was generated using SWISS-MODEL workspace   and based on the X-ray crystal structure of agonist-bound human β2 adrenergic receptor   . Homology models for TAAR10a  and TAAR16c  were prepared similarly using the same template . "
"Animals have evolved intricate search strategies to find new sources of food . Here , we analyze a complex food seeking behavior in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans  to derive a general theory describing different searches . elegans , like many other animals , uses a multi-stage search for food , where they initially explore a small area intensively  before switching to explore a much larger area  . We demonstrate that these search strategies as well as the transition between them can be quantitatively explained by a maximally informative search strategy , where the searcher seeks to continuously maximize information about the target . Although performing maximally informative search is computationally demanding , we show that a drift-diffusion model can approximate it successfully with just three neurons . Our study reveals how the maximally informative search strategy can be implemented and adopted to different search conditions . In considering animal behavior and decision-making , it is exciting to consider the proposal  that animals may be guided by fundamental statistical quantities , such as the maximization of Shannon mutual information  . The fact that mutual information can be used with different types of probability distributions makes it possible to quantitatively compare the efficiency of behavioral decisions across species , sensory modalities , and tasks . Both these patterns of behavior can be accounted for by adapting a maximally informative search strategy to the appropriate behavioral context . Among the multitude of decisions that animals make throughout the day , foraging for food is perhaps the most challenging and critical for survival . Interestingly , a number of species have been reported to spend more time in areas where they have recently observed food  , suggesting that there might be an underlying logic to search that generalizes across species . After removal from food , the animal first performs an intense search around the area where it believes food is likely to be located  . This period is characterized by an increased number of abrupt turns allowing the animal to stay in the proximal area  and is termed ‘local search’ . elegans is traditionally considered to be a chemotactic searcher  , moving up or down chemical gradients to find the source of an odorant , in these conditions animals have no chemical gradient to follow . We set out to explore whether a single underlying strategy could explain the different aspects of food search behavior in this well-studied model . Transition between local and global search in C . elegans foraging trajectories following their removal from food . Animals search the local area by producing a large number of turns before abruptly transitioning to a global search . elegans performs a food search even in the absence of a gradient  , they must have a prior belief about how food is distributed in the environment . For the sake of simplicity , we assume that the probability of finding food is initially distributed as a two-dimensional Gaussian distribution , which imposes the minimal structural constraint beyond the variance of the spatial distribution  . When searching through this space , an animal using the maximally informative trajectory should move in the direction that maximizes its information about the location of food . This can be calculated by taking into account the probability that the nearby environment would emit food odor and then estimating the change in information the animal expects will result from any detection or non-detection events  . This means that even a non-detection of a food odorant is informative as it lessens the likelihood that food is nearby . Ultimately , the probability of detecting an odorant depends on the likelihood of food sources across the environment  . Analyzing these solutions , we find that the maximally informative trajectories first take the searcher towards the peak in the maximum likelihood of food distribution  and then follow an outward motion  . This intensive search of a small area is qualitatively consistent with the local search performed by C . Maximally informative trajectories exhibit abrupt transitions between spiral-like and straight motion towards the boundary . Initial trajectories of the model head directly towards the peak probability of finding an odor source . The log probability that the food is elsewhere consistently increases as the search progresses . The transition between local  and global  search occurs when this probability approaches 1 . However as the search progressed , and no odorants were detected , this probability decreased according to the Bayesian rule:  pt+1  =pt  P  P  , where pt+1  =pt+1  is the updated probability given that n = 0 odor detections were observed . We found that allowing the probability to decrease during the search causes the local search to consistently end abruptly at locations that were very far from the boundaries of modeled area A  . After the transition , the search trajectory would then follow a straight path to the boundary of the modeled area  . elegans transitioning between local and global search . One interesting feature of this maximally informative search strategy is the abruptness of the transition . The transition from local to global search corresponds , at least in the model , with the searcher's estimate that the probability that food is located elsewhere equals 1  . As described above , in the maximally informative model , the transition between the local and global states of the search occurs abruptly . To investigate the sharpness of this transition within individual worm trajectories , we applied a Hidden Markov model framework  to experimentally recorded trajectories . If segments of single-animal trajectories represent mixtures of states corresponding to local and global parts of the search , then the probability of observing global search patterns will increase gradually . However , analysis of experimental traces revealed a sharp transition between local and global search states on the order of a few minutes  . Thus , the search trajectories both in experiment and theory exhibit a sharp transition between the local and global parts of the search . Sharp Transition between local and global phases of the search . Example analysis based on a single trajectory shows fast  switching time between the local and global phases of the search . The distribution of transition durations across a set of trajectories from different animals . 005 Next , we examined whether the infotaxis framework could quantitatively account for the distribution of worm search trajectories . The infotaxis model contains three independent parameters: the width of the initial prior probability distribution , filter length representing physical parameters , and how close the initial values for p0  was set to 1  . Fitting these parameters of the infotaxis model , it is possible to quantitatively account for the experimental distribution of worm positions at the end of local search  . Importantly , the same set values of these parameters adjusted to match the spatial distribution  also produced  the cumulative distribution of local search duration and matched experimental measurements  . Thus , the infotaxis model can quantitatively account for the properties of worm search behavior after removal from food . Infotaxis model quantitatively accounts for the worm trajectories . The distribution of worm displacements from an initial position at the end of the local search is non-Gaussian and can be fitted using the three parameters  of the infotaxis model . The same set of parameters also accounts for the cumulative distribution for the local search duration across different individual worms . Comparison of measured local search duration times with predictions based on chemotaxis and infotaxis models . The chemotaxis model was fit by measuring the maximum and steady-state turning rates of the animal and constraining the mean turning rate . 007 One may wonder whether other search strategies could also account for food search behavior in worms . A searcher using this strategy would be expected to transiently increase its turning rate when removed from food due to a sudden , large change in food gradient . Although this explanation seems plausible , it could not quantitatively account for three properties of foraging trajectories:  the long duration of the local search ,  the rapid exit from the local search state , and  the inability of food concentration to influence local search . An explanation based on adaptation with a single time constant could be ruled out based on the juxtaposition between the relatively long duration of the local search with the fairly rapid transition between the local and global phases of the search . Adaptation with a slow time constant could explain the fairly substantial duration of the local search but not its sharp transition to a global search . On the other hand , adaptation with a short time constant could match the low number of turns during the global search but would underestimate the number of turns and the duration of the local phase of the search  . Quantitatively , adjusting the adaptation time constant to match the observed durations of the local search phase produces trajectories with much broader transitions between local and global phases of the search than is observed experimentally  . For different adaptation times , the predicted dynamics of turn rate can match either the slow decay in the beginning of the search or the small rate of turning at the end of the search , but not both . The average number of turns is unaffected by changes in food concentration  , in contrast to chemotaxis predictions  and in agreement with the infotaxis predictions  . 008 Perhaps a more striking illustration as to why chemotaxis does not fully describe the foraging trajectories comes from experiments where worms are transferred from patches of food of the same size but with different concentrations . In contrast , the infotaxis model makes predictions based not on the last odorant concentration that the animal experienced prior to its removal from food , but on the relative distribution of food in the environment . Therefore , the infotaxis model would predict that the animals will make the same number of turns regardless of the bacteria concentration within the lawn , provided the lawns have the same size . elegans behavior when removed from food cannot be explained as chemotaxis but is consistent with infotaxis . The results we have presented so far argue that the quantitative characteristics of animals' behavior match what would be expected for an optimal , maximally informative  or  Bayesian  model of search . This model continuously updates the likelihood of a food source being present throughout the duration of search . However , the animals could also approximate complex computations with empirically-tuned simple search heuristics that have only slightly smaller than maximal yields . Interestingly , as the search progresses , the log probability 1−pt  that the food is located elsewhere accumulates . When this probability reaches one , the local phase of the search ends and the global phase begins . The approximately linear increase in the log probability 1−pt  observed during most of the local search duration  suggests that the timing of the transition from the local to global search could be accounted for by a simple drift-diffusion model  . In our set-up the drift-diffusion model has effectively only one parameter—the drift rate . While in most applications drift-diffusion models are considered together with an adjustable threshold , here the lower threshold value is fixed to 0 because the dynamical variable represents probability . Similarly , the starting value of this probability  also has relatively weak influence on the duration of local search . The key property of the maximally informative foraging strategies is that they depend on the width of the initial  distribution of food in the environment . Adjusting the slope of the drift-diffusion model captures both the change in evidence-accumulation as well as the observed distribution of transition times from local to global search  . These observations suggest that animals could empirically learn the appropriate slope for different distributions of food , and in this way perform nearly optimal foraging strategies with minimum computational effort . Notably , the distribution of local search duration times produced by the chemotaxis model show the opposite dependence on the width of the prior distribution compared to the infotaxis model  . Drift-diffusion approximates maximally informative search across a range of conditions . The log probability that the food is located elsewhere has approximately linear dynamics , resembling a drift-diffusion decision variable . The drift rate  decreases with the width of the prior distribution  The distribution of local search duration times can be approximated by a drift diffusion model for a range of conditions . The chemotaxis model predicts an opposite shift in the local search duration times between wide and narrow priors compared to the infotaxis predictions . 009 The maximally informative foraging trajectories are affected not only by the width of the prior distribution but also by odorant characteristics . Perhaps fortuitously for animals with small neural circuits , we found that the changes in diffusivity primarily affected the rate of increase ln , but the overall dynamics could still be described by the that drift-diffusion model  . The slope of the drift-diffusion model increased approximately linearly  with the spatial extent L of the diffusion filter  , see also Equation 3 in ‘Materials and methods’ . These results demonstrate that maximally informative foraging trajectories can be approximated by a simple drift-diffusion model across a range of behaviorally relevant conditions . Taking the two-phase foraging circuit  that we analyzed here as an example , one may hypothesize that the initial trigger for the start of the search is provided by sensory input , likely through the AWC sensory neuron  . However , these responses are transient  and do not last long enough to account for the long duration of local search  . Instead , we hypothesize that local search is maintained based on the responses of one of the interneurons . The gradual change in state of these neurons that receive sensory input , for example the AIB and AIZ interneurons , may encode the passage of time since the start of local search . Modulating the rate at which the internal state of a neuron changes allows the animal to adjust the duration of local search after sensing aspects of the environment such as how food is spatially distributed and how far the odorant molecules diffuse from this particular food source . We hypothesize that this modulation occurs through neuromodulatory signaling , which is known to be involved in local search behavior  . In summary , a neural circuit based on just a few neurons suffices to implement foraging strategies that approximate the maximally informative , but computationally intensive , decisions . Maximally informative foraging can be approximated by a combination of local and global search phases . Finally , the duration of the local search can be modulated by the release of neuromodulators . These include chemotaxis based on local sensory cues , different types of random walks  , and computationally intensive models based on detailed memories of past experiences . However , the resulting search strategies are driven directly by changes in the gradient and do not necessarily reflect the typical size of food patches . While infotaxis and chemotaxis strategies converge under conditions of smoothly varying gradients , this is not so in cases where transitions between patches are common . In fact , we found that chemotactic trajectories exhibited not only a much weaker dependence on the patch size compared to infotaxis trajectories but also predicted the opposite relationship between patch size and search duration  . In addition , we found that worm and foraging trajectories were unaffected by the overall food concentration within the patch  , in agreement with infotaxis but in contrast to chemotaxis predictions . The addition of interneurons to the circuit , as schematized in Figure 7 , makes it possible to dissociate the change in the gradient from the duration of local search . In this case , although the searcher knows precisely where the food is located at a given time , it might not be able to get to the food source before it moves again . Animals might counteract this problem with predictive coding , using foraging strategies that maximize information about the food source location at a sufficient time in the future  . The fact that both infotaxis and drift-diffusion models can account for the properties of foraging trajectories does not take away from the stated goal that animal behavior is guided by information maximization . After all , the drift-diffusion models are fitted to parameters of infotaxis trajectories . These fits dictate how the animals should adjust search times depending on the typical widths of food patches in the environment . While the infotaxis model predicts that local search should last longer for wider food patches , the chemotaxis model makes the opposite prediction  . At the same time , even to set parameters of drift-diffusion models , one would need to estimate the variance of the food distribution across space . When arriving near the presumed location of the nest , animals follow a spiral search pattern that is consistent with infotaxis trajectories  . Following large displacements , ants have great difficulties finding the nest with local search patterns and transition to a strategy that is reminiscent of the global search executed by C . Our results add to these by showing that invertebrates can integrate more abstract quantities than spatial position and operate directly on the probability that the food  is located elsewhere . In summary , animals appear to guide their foraging behavior by searching for information . This simple behavioral rule is able to account for multiple search strategies , as well as the emergent transitions between them . For testing , animals were moved to an agar observation plate without any food where they were corralled into a 1″ square by a filter paper soaked in 200 mM CuSO4 , which animals generally avoid . Infotaxis trajectories were modeled using a 128 × 128 grid representing position and probability distribution of the food source in the environment . Although the initial descriptions of the model separated odorant detection events according to the number of odorant hits , in our setup  the computation of those probabilities was numerically unstable . The probability of an odor source being located at location r0 after observing a trace of odor encounters is given by  Pt  =Lr0  ∫Lx  dxor , alternately , Pt  =exp∏i=1HR ( r  |r0 ) ∫exp∏i=1HR ( r  |x ) dx where H is the number of hits observed during the trajectory at time ti . During movement , the expected change in entropy when moving isΔS  =Pt  + where ρ0 represents the probability that 0 detections are made at rj during a timestep and ρ1 represents the probability that any detections are made . During search , while a hit results in a change in the probability landscape of R  , no hits will update the prior by convolving it with exp ( −R  ) . The decision variable was modeled as an accumulating value with initial value set at −100 to represent the log-likelihood that food is elsewhere . Drift and diffusion parameters were extracted from the time series of infotaxis trajectories and decisions were simulated using the following equation:  dx=Adt+cdW . "
"Genetically encoded calcium indicators  allow measurement of activity in large populations of neurons and in small neuronal compartments , over times of milliseconds to months . Although GFP-based GECIs are widely used for in vivo neurophysiology , GECIs with red-shifted excitation and emission spectra have advantages for in vivo imaging because of reduced scattering and absorption in tissue , and a consequent reduction in phototoxicity . However , current red GECIs are inferior to the state-of-the-art GFP-based GCaMP6 indicators for detecting and quantifying neural activity . Here we present improved red GECIs based on mRuby  and mApple  , with sensitivity comparable to GCaMP6 . We characterized the performance of the new red GECIs in cultured neurons and in mouse , Drosophila , zebrafish and C . Red GECIs facilitate deep-tissue imaging , dual-color imaging together with GFP-based reporters , and the use of optogenetics in combination with calcium imaging . Green fluorescent protein  -based GECIs  , such as GCaMP6  , are widely used for imaging neural activity . GCaMP6 indicators exhibit excellent signal-to-noise ratio , allowing detection of single action potentials  in many situations  . Applications of GCaMPs and other widely used GECIs are limited by their excitation and emission spectra . The blue excitation light used in standard wide-field microscopy can cause photodamage and is highly scattered in tissue . The green GCaMP emission is absorbed by blood  , which reduces the penetration depth of imaging in vertebrates in vivo . In addition , the GCaMP excitation spectrum overlaps with those of light-sensitive ion channels , including channelrhodopsin-2   , which complicates the simultaneous use of green GECIs and optogenetics . Red-shifted GECIs thus promise three main advantages over GFP-based sensors: increased maximal imaging depth , parallel use of a red GECI with light-sensitive ion channels for all-optical neurophysiology experiments , and reduced photodamage . In addition , together with existing green GECIs , red GECIs allow simultaneous imaging of multiple components of neuronal circuitry . Current red GECIs share overall architecture with the GCaMP sensors . They are based on circularly permuted red fluorescent proteins  , a calcium-binding protein  and a binding peptide  . RCaMP1  is derived from mRuby  , whereas R-GECO  and R-CaMP2  are derived from mApple  . R-GECO is more sensitive than RCaMP1 . However , mApple-based GECIs , such as R-GECO and R-CaMP2 , exhibit photoswitching when illuminated with blue light , causing a transient increase of red fluorescence that complicates their use in optogenetics  . Here we performed large-scale structure-guided mutagenesis and neuron-based screening  to develop improved red GECIs , starting with RCaMP1h  and R-GECO1  . We report on the mRuby-based jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b , and mApple-based jRGECO1a , all of which show several-fold improved sensitivity for detecting neural activity compared to their parent scaffolds . R-GECO1 and RCaMP1 are based on circularly permuted mApple  and mRuby  , respectively , fused to calmodulin  and the CaM-interacting M13 peptide  . Structure-guided mutagenesis and screening in a neuron-based assay have been successful in improving GCaMP sensitivity and kinetics  . Here we applied a similar approach to red GECIs . Dissociated rat hippocampal neurons in 96-well plates were transfected with plasmids expressing red GECI variants  . R-GECO1 and RCaMP1h were both expressed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus  . To sense calcium selectively in the cytoplasm we added a nuclear export sequence  to the N-termini of R-GECO1 , RCaMP1h , and all their variants . Mutagenesis and screening of jRCaMP1 and jRGECO1 in dissociated neurons . RCaMP1h and R-GECO1 structure and mutations introduced in jRCaMP1a , jRCaMP1b , and jRGECO1a . Mutation positions for jRCaMP1a  , jRCaMP1b  , jRGECO1a  . Field electrodes  stimulate cultured neurons expressing a cytosolic red GECI variant and nuclear GFP . An example response trace of a jRGECO1a-expressing neuron after 3 action potential  stimulus is shown . Top , fluorescence changes in response to 1 AP  . Fluorescence changes were extracted from single neurons to compute the sensitivity , dynamic range , and kinetics of the responses to various trains of APs . Individual red GECI variants were compared to the parent constructs and published GECIs , including R-CaMP2  , GCaMP6s , and GCaMP6f  . M339F accelerated kinetics but did not affect response amplitude of R-GECO1 . Beneficial mutations were sorted based on improved response amplitudes  and/or faster kinetics , without a significant reduction in the maximal fluorescence change elicited by 160 APs . Based on criteria similar to those outlined above , two new mRuby-based sensors , jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b , and one mApple-based sensor , jRGECO1a , were selected for in-depth analysis  . These sensors have similar absorption and emission spectra to each other and their parent constructs but they differ in sensitivity for detecting neural activity , kinetics , and other biophysical properties  . jRGECO1 and jRCaMP1 performance in dissociated neurons . Average responses in response to one action potential  for RCaMP1h  , R-GECO1  , R-CaMP2  , jRGECO1a  , jRCaMP1a  , and jRCaMP1b  . Comparison of jRGECO1 and jRCaMP1 sensors and other red GECIs , as a function of number of APs  . Signal-to-noise ratio , SNR , defined as the fluorescence signal peak above baseline , divided by the signal standard deviation before the stimulation is given . Biophysical properties of purified jRGECO1 and jRCaMP1 sensors . Summary of red GECI biophysical properties , mean ± s . Absorption and emission spectra of red GECIs . One-photon excitation  and emission  spectra for jRGECO1a  , jRCaMP1a  , and jRCaMP1b  in Ca-free  and Ca-saturated  states . Two-photon excitation spectra for jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1a , and jRCaMP1b , in Ca-free  and Ca- saturated  states . Fluorescence quantum yield of red GECIs and red FPs  , and GCaMP6s  . Peak two-photon molecular brightness  of red GECIs , red FPs , and GCaMP6s  . One-photon bleaching curves of jRGECO1a  , jRCaMP1a  , and jRCaMP1b  in Ca-free  and Ca-saturated  states . Note that Ca-free jRGECO1a bleaching is negligible , while ~40% of the Ca-saturated jRGECO1a molecules photobleach within few seconds . e–g , Two-photon bleaching curves of jRCaMP1a  , jRGECO1a  , and GCaMP6s  in Ca-free and Ca-saturated states . h–i , Two-photon bleaching profile of Ca-saturated jRCaMP1a  and jRGECO1a  when excited with 2 different wavelengths while maintaining an identical SNR . Fluorescence traces of purified Ca2+-free protein droplets  of jRCaMP1a  , jRGECO1a  , and R-CaMP2  constantly illuminated with 561 nm excitation light  , and with 488 nm light pulses  . For the mApple-based GECIs , jRGECO1a and R-CaMP2 , blue illumination induced a transient , calcium-independent increase in fluorescence intensity indicative of photoswitching , while jRCaMP1a does not photoswitch , but photobleaches . jRCaMP1a is more compatible than jRGECO1a for simultaneous use with ChR2 . Fluorescence signal from cultured rat hippocampal neurons transfected with either jRGECO1a alone  or jRGECO1a+ChR2-Venus  following stimulation with blue light  stimulus pulses  . Inset , merged image of neuron expressing both jRGECO1a  and ChR2-Venus  . Same experiment as in a with cultured neurons expressing jRCaMP1a alone  or jRCaMP1a+ChR2-Venus  . Peak ΔF/F0 values for 5 neurons expressing jRGECO1a+ChR2-Venus  and 5 neurons expressing jRGECO1a alone  as a function of blue stimulus light power . Peak ΔF/F0 for 5 neurons expressing jRCaMP1a+ChR2-Venus  and 5 neurons expressing jRCaMP1a alone  as function of blue stimulus light power . 009 jRGECO1a is the most sensitive indicator , with 8 . 5-fold larger ΔF/F0 amplitude for 1AP stimuli and faster rise time than R-GECO1  . Decay time and maximal ΔF/F0 amplitude were similar to R-GECO1 . jRGECO1a response amplitudes and kinetics are comparable to GCaMP6f for brief trains of 1–10 APs  . Similar to other mApple-based indicators , jRGECO1a exhibits photoswitching in response to blue light  . jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b were also much improved compared to their parent sensors   . jRCaMP1a has higher sensitivity and slower decay kinetics than jRCaMP1b . jRCaMP1b has a larger dynamic range , without saturation in the range of 1–160 APs  . Both jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b have higher calcium affinities than RCaMP1h  . However , jRCaMP1a has very limited dynamic range in cultured neurons and solution  . jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b are two-fold brighter than jRGECO1a in the calcium-bound state  . Similar to RCaMP1h , jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b did not exhibit photoswitching  . This allows independent photostimulation and imaging in neurons that co-express ChR2 and jRCaMP1a/b  . We tested jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1a , jRCaMP1b , their parent indicators , and R-CaMP2  in the mouse primary visual cortex  in vivo   . The majority of V1 neurons can be driven to fire action potentials in response to drifting gratings  . V1 neurons were infected with adeno-associated virus  expressing one of the red GECI variants under the human synapsin1 promoter  and imaged 16–180 days later . Two-photon excitation was performed with a tunable ultrafast laser  running at 1040 nm or 1100 nm . L2/3 neurons showed red fluorescence in the neuronal cytoplasm . Regions of interest corresponding to single neurons revealed visual stimulus-evoked fluorescence transients that were stable across trials and tuned to stimulus orientation  . mApple-based indicators tracked more faithfully than mRuby-based indicators because of their faster kinetics  . jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b performance in the mouse primary visual cortex . Bottom , image of V1 L2/3 cells expressing jRGECO1a  , and the same field of view color-coded according to the neurons’ preferred orientation  and response amplitude  . Example traces from three L2/3 neurons expressing jRGECO1a  and jRCaMP1a  . jRGECO1a traces correspond to the cells indicated in panel a  . Average response of neurons to their preferred stimulus ( 175 cells , R-GECO1; 310 , R-CaMP2; 395 , jRGECO1a; 347 , jRCaMP1a; 95 , jRCaMP1b . n=4 mice for jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a , n=3 mice for all other constructs . Fourier spectra normalized to the amplitude at 0 Hz for neurons driven with 1 Hz drifting gratings , transduced with RCaMP1h , R-GECO1 , R-CaMP2 , jRGECaMP1a , jRCaMP1b , and jRGECO1a . Fraction of cells detected as responding to visual stimulus  when expressing different calcium indicators . This fraction was 8- and 6-fold higher for jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b compared to RCaMP1h , respectively , and 60% higher for jRGECO1a compared to R-GECO1  . A right-shifted curve , such as jRGECO1a vs . R-GECO1 or jRCaMP1a/b vs . jRCaMP1h , indicates enhancement of response amplitude  . Comparison of orientation tuning in V1 neurons measured with different red GECIs . Distribution of orientation selectivity index  for all cells detected as responsive , measured using different GECIs . Long-term expression of red GECIs in mouse V1 . Example images of V1 L2/3 neurons after long term expression of red GECIs . Distributions of peak ΔF/F0 for different animals imaged after different times of expression of the red GECI . Half decay times of the fluorescence response for different animals with different expression time of the red GECI . jRCaMP1a data for 16 days of expression is not shown because the number of cells eligible for this analysis was too small  . jRGECO1a L2/3 functional imaging in the mouse V1 . 013 We compared the performance of red GECIs using standard metrics  . One measure of sensitivity is the fraction of neurons detected as responsive in the visual cortex  . For jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b this fraction was 8- and 6-fold higher than for RCaMP1h  , and comparable to GCaMP6f . For jRGECO1a , the fraction was 60% higher than for R-GECO1  , 40% higher than R-CaMP2  , 30% higher than GCaMP6f  , but 40% lower than GCaMP6s  . The mean ΔF/F0 at the preferred visual stimulus  also showed enhanced sensitivity for jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b compared to RCaMP1h  . jRGECO1a responses in vivo were larger than other red GECIs and GCaMP6f , but still smaller than GCaMP6s responses . Long-term and high expression of GCaMP was reported to affect neuronal health  . GCaMP6 nuclear-filled cells show attenuated responses to sensory stimuli , slower decay times , and degraded orientation selectivity  . We expressed jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1a , and jRCaMP1b for more than 130 days in mouse V1 . Unlike GCaMP indicators , nuclear filling was not observed  , presumably due to the NES in the red GECI sequences . Red GECIs showed stable performance over time , although a small decrease of orientation selectivity was observed for jRCaMP1b after 180 days of expression  . Interestingly , long-term expression with the tested red GECIs seems to be more stable than with GCaMP6s  . These data suggest that jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a / jRCaMP1b can be used in experiments requiring long-term expression . The measured jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a responses in the visual cortex were smaller than expected based on measurements in cultured neurons  and lower than those produced by GCaMP6s  . High-resolution microscopy of fixed brain tissue sections revealed bright fluorescent punctae in neurons labeled with jRGECO1a but not with jRCaMP1a/b . jRGECO1a punctae co-localized with LAMP-1 , a marker of lysosomes   . When imaged in vivo , ROIs containing punctae had higher baseline fluorescence by 90% but lower peak ΔF/F0 by 20% compared to their surrounding soma  . This implies that accumulation of fluorescent , non-responsive jRGECO1a in lysosomes reduces the signal-to-noise ratio for in vivo imaging . Simultaneous fluorescence dynamics and spikes measured from jRGECO1a  and jRCaMP1a  expressing neurons . Left inset , a jRCaMP1a expressing neuron with the recording pipette  . Top , jRGECO1a; bottom , jRCaMP1a . jRGECO1a fluorescence changes in response to 1 AP  , and jRCaMP1a fluorescence changes in response to 2 APs  . Distribution of peak fluorescence change as a function of number of action potentials in a time bin  . Receiver operating characteristic  curve for classifying 1 and 2 APs for jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a  . Comparison of mean half rise  and decay  times of jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a for 2 AP response . jRGECO1a accumulates in lysosomes . Red GECI expression  and LAMP-1 immunostaining  of fixed tissue sections from mouse V1 . Distribution of the fraction of somatic area covered by protein aggregates for neurons expressing jRGECO1a . Neurons in V1  show more frequent jRGECO1a aggregates than cultured neurons  . Example traces from V1 L2/3 cell showing ΔF/F0 changes of somatic regions overlapping with protein aggregates  and regions excluding aggregates  . Red GECIs lack functional response at 900nm excitation . Functional responses of three example cells  at 1040 nm excitation  and 900 nm  . Complex spectral and functional characteristics of the red GECIs after long-term expression in vivo . Images of jRGECO1a  and jRCaMP1a  L2/3 neurons in vivo excited by 1040 nm  and 900 nm light  . Note the punctate fluorescence image in the bottom images . Emission spectra from fixed tissue cells of jRGEC1a  and jRCaMP1b  when illuminated with 900 nm and 1000 nm laser reveal a greenish emission band . Scatter plot of the ratio between jRGECO1a somatic signal detected at 900 nm excitation  and baseline fluorescence detected at 1040 nm excitation , and the peak somatic ΔF/F0 for drifting grating stimuli . Red solid line shows the linear regression model , red dashed lines are 95% confidence interval; R2=0 . Distribution of the somatic fluorescence ratio between 900 nm and 1040 nm excitation  show an increase in both the ratio median and its range with longer expression time . 017 We also detected green fluorescence  in the in vivo images of all red GECIs imaged in V1 . Green fluorescence was visible with 900 nm excitation , but not with 1040 nm excitation , suggesting that red GECIs partition into at least two species . The green fluorescence was distributed unevenly across the cytoplasm and does not report calcium  . Indeed , jRGECO1a neurons with larger fractional fluorescence intensity at 900 nm showed lower response amplitudes . Longer expression times for jRGECO1a increased relative intensity at 900 nm and similarly correlated with lower peak ΔF/F0  . These data suggest that long-term expression in the mammalian brain can degrade sensitivity of the red GECIs . Imaging with red probes suffers less from scattering of excitation light and absorption of fluorescence compared with GFP-based sensors  , which could allow deeper imaging in vivo  . To estimate how fluorescence decays with imaging depth we imaged apical dendrites from layer  5 cells  . We fitted an exponential decay to the fluorescence signal measured as a function of depth . Red GECI fluorescence decayed much more slowly  than GCaMP6 fluorescence   . Deep tissue imaging using red GECIs . L5 neuron apical dendrites were imaged at different depths  . Right , RCaMP1h fluorescence from an L5 apical dendrite  as a function of imaging depth . For fixed excitation light the brightness decreases as a function of imaging depth because of scattering and absorption losses . Exponential decay coefficients measured from dendrites expressing green  or red  GECIs . Red GECI signal decay coefficients were significantly longer than for green GECI  . An NTSR1-cre mouse  was infected with FLEX-SYN1-NES-jRCaMP1a AAV . 018 This enhanced imaging depth enabled , for example , imaging deep in L6 . We infected L6 neurons by injecting AAV-SYN1-FLEX-jRCaMP1a virus into the visual cortex of NTSR1-cre  mice  . Four weeks after infection we could detect orientation-tuned somatic transients in L6 cells  in response to visual stimuli  . The spectral properties of red GECIs allow dual-color imaging together with green GCaMP6 indicators . To demonstrate dual-color functional imaging in spatially intermingled neuronal processes , a FLEX-SYN1-jRGECO1a AAV was injected into V1 of mouse lines expressing cre recombinase specifically in L5 neurons  and SYN1-GCaMP6s AAV was injected into cortical LM , which sends axons to V1  . A single excitation source at 1000 nm was used to excite both indicators . We note that bleaching of the red GECI was low when imaging relatively large cellular compartments , such as cell bodies or apical dendrites  , but significant bleaching was seen for thin axons . Two-photon action spectra of Ca- saturated GCaMP6s , jRCaMP1a , and jRGECO1a . Image of L5 apical dendrites  and LM axons  imaged in L1  of KJ18-cre mice . jRGECO1a labeled apical L5 dendrites  , and GCaMP6s labeled axons from LM  were imaged in L1 of V1  . 020 We characterized the relationship between somatic fluorescence changes and spiking in L2/3 cells by combining imaging with loose-seal , cell-attached recordings  . Imaging was performed at high zoom to detect transients with the highest signal-to-noise ratio  . jRGECO1a fluorescence changes allowed relatively robust detection of activity  . Fluorescence changes of jRCaMP1a were smaller , with a detection rate for 1AP and 2AP events of 65% and 80% respectively  . jRGECO1a showed higher ΔF/F0 amplitudes and better detection than jRCaMP1a over the entire range of AP bursts  . jRGECO1a also had faster kinetics  . Measured rise and decay time of jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a were similar to GCaMP6f and GCaMP6s , respectively  . We next tested red GECIs in flies , zebrafish and worms . Red GECIs were expressed pan-neuronally in transgenic flies  . Consistent with cultured neuron data , we saw a significant boost of single AP sensitivity in jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1a , and jRCaMP1b variants compared to their parent indicators  . Peak response amplitudes of jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a outperform GCaMP6s in the 1–5 Hz stimulation range  . The decay kinetics of jRGECO1a  was similar to GCaMP6f  . The combination of high sensitivity and fast kinetics for jRGECO1a allows detection of individual spikes on top of the response envelope for stimuli up to 10 Hz  . Imaging activity in Drosophila larval NMJ boutouns with red GECIs . Segmented motor nerve is electrically stimulated while optically imaging calcium responses in presynaptic boutons  . Response transients  to 5 Hz stimulation  for several red and green GECIs . Response amplitudes were 4-fold and 60% higher for jRGECO1a than GCaMP6f and GCaMP6s respectively  , jRCaMP1a response amplitude was 3-fold higher than GCaMP6f  and similar to GCaMP6s   Comparison of frequency tuned responses  of red and green GECIs for 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation  . jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a response amplitudes were 2–3 fold higher than GCaMP6s and GCaMP6f for 1 Hz stimulus  , but lower for stimulus frequencies of 20 Hz and higher   Half decay time  of red and green GECIs at 160 Hz stimulation  . Imaging activity in Drosophila larval NMJ boutons with jRGECO1a . Epifluorescence and high magnification △F/F0 images of Type 1b boutons  from muscle 13  , with image segmentation ROIs superimposed  . Single trial and averaged fluorescence transients after 1 Hz stimulus for 2 s for R-GECO1 , jRGECO1a and jRGECO1b  . jRGECO1a performance was superior to jRGECO1b in the Drosophila NMJ and zebrafish trigeminal neuron; therefore jRGECO1b was not fully tested in other animal models . Fourier spectra normalized to 0 Hz of fluorescence signals acquired during 5 Hz  and 10 Hz  stimulation . △F/F0  and SNR  traces  recorded with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation for 2 s  . △F/F0  and SNR  traces  recorded with 1 and 5 Hz stimulation for 2 s  . Comparison of △F/F0 traces  of R-GECO1 and jRGECO1 variants with 1 , 5 , 10 Hz  and 20 , 40 , 80 Hz  stimulation for 2 s  . Comparison of frequency tuned averaged peak △F/F0  and peak SNR   of GCaMP6 variants , R-GECO1 and jRGECO1 variants , with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation . Comparison of kinetics of GCaMP6 variants , R-GECO1 and jRGECO1 variants with 40 Hz stimulation . Horizontal axes are half rise time and vertical axes are half decay time . Imaging activity in Drosophila larval NMJ boutons with jRCaMP1 constructs . Epifluorescence and high magnification △F/F0 images of Type 1b boutons  from muscle 13  , with image segmentation ROIs superimposed  . Single trial and averaged fluorescence transients after 1 Hz stimulus for 2 s for R-GECO1 , jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b  . △F/F0  and SNR  traces  recorded with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation for 2 s  . △F/F0  and SNR  traces  recorded with 1 and 5 Hz stimulation for 2 s  . , Comparison of △F/F0 traces  of R-GECO1 and jRCaMP1 variants with 1 , 5 , 10 Hz  and 20 , 40 , 80 Hz  stimulation for 2 s  . Comparison of frequency tuned averaged peak △F/F0  and peak SNR   of RCaMP1h and jRCaMP1 variants , with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation . Comparison of kinetics of RCaMP1h and jRCaMP1 variants with 40 Hz stimulation . Horizontal axes are half rise time and vertical axes are half decay time . Comparing red and green GECI activity in Drosophila larval NMJ boutons . Single trial and averaged fluorescence transients after 1 Hz  and 5 Hz  stimulus for 2 s for jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1a , jRCaMP1b , GCaMP6s and GCaMP6f  . Comparison of frequency tuned averaged peak △F/F0  of jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1 variants and GCaMP6 variants , with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation . Comparison of frequency tuned averaged half decay  and half rise   of jRGECO1a , jRCaMP1 variants and GCaMP6 variants , with 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 and 160 Hz stimulation . 027 Red GECIs were also expressed pan-neuronally in transgenic zebrafish under the elavl3/HuC promoter  . Fish showing strong expression in the trigeminal  neurons 3–4 days post fertilization  were selected for imaging . Tg neurons are usually silent and fire one or few spikes in response to touch  . Brief trains of electrical stimulation pulses  , which are known to stimulate Tg neurons  , were used to elicit responses in these cells and image calcium transients  . Similar to results from cultured rat hippocampal neurons , mice , and Drosophila , jRGECO1a was the most sensitive red GECI tested in this assay: its response to one and five pulses outperformed all other GECIs , including GCaMP6f and GCaMP6s  . For higher numbers of stimulus pulses the jRGECO1a response was partially saturated . jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b exhibited large improvements in sensitivity over their parent indicator , RCaMP1h , and also higher sensitivity than R-CaMP2 , with jRCaMP1b showing faster kinetics than jRCaMP1a  . Imaging activity in the zebrafish trigeminal neurons with red GECIs . Response amplitudes were 7- and 8- fold higher for jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b than RCaMP1h , respectively , and 4-fold higher for jRGECO1a than R-CaMP2  . Half decay time for different red and green GECIs  . 028 Finally , Red GECIs were tested in the ASH and AWC neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans , two sensory neurons with distinct graded signaling properties  . ASH neurons , which respond to noxious stimuli with calcium increases , were exposed to high-osmolarity glycerol in one second pulses alternating with buffer  . All tested GECIs exhibited an initial increase in fluorescence that was strongest for jRCaMP1b , jRCEGO1a , and R-GECO1  , followed by modulation of the fluorescence signal and a slow decay . jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1b showed the best performance in tracking the 1 s stimuli  , while RCaMP1h , jRCaMP1a , and R-GECO1 showed smaller signal modulations; the dim fluorescence of R-CaMP2 made it less useful . AWC neurons , which are tonically active and inhibited by odor , were exposed to a one minute pulse of 92 μM isoamyl alcohol alternating with buffer  . jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1b robustly detected the three known components of the odor response: odor-induced calcium decreases , a calcium overshoot on odor removal , and a return to baseline  . R-GECO1 and RCaMP1h , which have weaker affinity for calcium , did not detect the odor-induced calcium decrease well , whereas jRCaMP1a truncated the overshoot after odor removal  and had the slowest kinetics  . In summary , jRCaMP1b performed best in detection of graded calcium signals , whereas jRGECO1a had advantages in response speed . elegans ASH and AWC neurons with red GECIs . Mean fluorescence transients in ASH neurons in response to 1 s pulses of 1 M hyperosmotic glycerol  . Quantification of signal modulation across 1 s glycerol pulses ( mean peak to trough difference over all 2 s cycles , divided by the signal average fluorescence during the first 10 s in buffer  . Mean fluorescence transients in AWC neurons in response to a one minute exposure to 92 µM isoamyl alcohol  . GFP-based GECIs are well-established tools for studying neuronal activity across many model organisms . Current state-of-the-art green GECIs , such as GCaMP6 , have sufficient sensitivity to detect single action potentials in diverse cell types and even detect activity of single synapses . Red GECIs can potentially be used in a similar manner with additional advantages . In addition , rhodopsin-based optogenetic tools have substantial absorption in the blue region of the wavelength spectrum , which overlaps with the excitation spectrum of GFP . Red GECIs can be imaged without exciting ChR2 . We developed red GECIs that rival best-of-class green GECIs in terms of sensitivity for detecting neural activity , thereby closing a significant performance gap between red and green GECIs . The new mApple-based jRGECO1a and the mRuby-based jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b are all improved several-fold compared to their parent indicators . jRGECO1a exhibits similar performance to the GCaMP6 indicators . jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b are less sensitive , but do not show photoswitching after illumination with blue light , making them suitable for experiments that combine calcium imaging and optogenetics . jRCaMP1a and jRCaMP1b are also slightly redder than jRGECO1a . This improved performance will enable a wide range of applications for red GECIs , for example , dual color imaging , where green and red GECIs are used in parallel to study the relation between two components of a neural circuit . Red GECIs will be useful for all-optical neurophysiology experiments , especially when there is spatial overlap between the stimulated and imaged parts of the neural circuit . The large spectral separation between ChR2 activation spectrum and the red GECI excitation spectrum  is preferable in situations when using a red-shifted light sensitive ion channel and a green GECI produces cross-talk  . The two-photon absorption spectra of red GECIs peak around 1040 nm , which overlaps with the output of cost-effective and powerful fiber lasers . Red GECIs still face challenges . First , all tested red GECIs show smaller  maximal fluorescence changes upon calcium binding than the GCaMP6 indicators . This limits the overall dynamic range of red GECIs . Second , the relatively low absorption cross-section of the red GECIs  further reduces the achievable signal-to-noise ratio for in vivo imaging . Third , red GECIs show complex intracellular behavior , such as accumulation in lysosomes  with long-term expression in the mouse brain . The presence of green fluorescence in all tested GECIs suggests the existence of multiple protein species , some of which do not produce functional signals  . Therefore , engineering red GECIs to produce less non-productive fluorescence might require replacing or re-engineering the RFP itself  , a direction that we plan to pursue in the future . GCaMP indicators are naturally excluded from the nucleus , presumably due to a cryptic nuclear exclusion sequence  motif . Both RCaMP and R-GECO are expressed throughout the cell , including the nucleus . Mutant red GECIs were made using mismatched oligonucleotides and cloned into an expression vector using gene assembly . The expression vector contained a human synapsin-1  promoter for neuronal-specific expression , a nuclear export signal  , a red GECI variant , an internal ribosome entry site , a nuclearly-targeted GFP , and a woodchuck hepatitis virus post-transcriptional regulatory element  to augment expression . Amino acid positions are numbered in jRGECO1 and jRCaMP1 variants  starting from GGSHHHHHHGMASM . Red GECI variants were expressed after transfection by electroporation into rat primary hippocampal neurons  using the Lonza Nucleofector system  . For stimulation and imaging , synaptic transmission was inhibited with glutamate and GABA receptor antagonists to make calcium changes solely dependent on opening of voltage sensitive calcium channels . APs  were evoked by field stimulation as described  , except that stimulation and imaging was in 96-well plates with modified electrodes . For photoswitching measurement in jRGECO1a-expressing neurons  , we added blue light stimulation  by using a blue LED and replacing the green excitation filter with a 561 nm shortpass filter  . Red fluorescence was measured with excitation at 570 nm  and emission 600 nm  . For koff measurements , protein samples in 100 µM calcium were rapidly mixed with a solution of 10 mM EGTA in a stopped-flow device  coupled to a fluorometer with 560 nm excitation/580 nm emission filters  . Fluorescence emission and excitation spectra were measured on a LS-55 fluorimeter  with 5 nm slits , and excitation/emission wavelengths of 555 nm/600 nm . Dim solutions  were not measurable on the Quantaurus , so relative quantum yields were determined from measured absorption in the UV/VIS spectrometer and integrated fluorescence measured in the fluorimeter , in comparison to the reference fluorophores mCherry  or fluorescein  for either red or green GECIs . Extinction coefficients for RGECO variants were determined using the alkali denaturation method , assuming the denatured extinction coefficient for RGECO variants is the same as denatured mCherry , 37 , 000 M-1cm-1 at 455 nm at pH 13  . For RCaMP variants , the denatured absorption spectra is complicated by an absorbance peak at 383 nm that first appears with increasing pH at pH 11 . So for RCaMP variants we used fluorescence correlation spectroscopy  , described below , to quantify concentration by counting fluorophores  , using mCherry as a concentration reference . FCS was performed on 10–100 nM protein solutions using 1060 nm excitation at low laser power  to determine the autocorrelation function G  of the fluorescence signal . For consistency , jRGECO variants were measured using the two methods and results were similar . For photoswitching experiments co-linear laser excitation was provided to the microscope at 488 nm  and 561 nm  using a beam-combining dichroic , and computer-controlled shutters determined exposure sequence . Fluorescence collected by the objective passed through dichroic and bandpass filters  , and was detected by a fiber-coupled avalanche photodiode  . Laser power was measured at the output of the objective , and laser beam area in the focal plane was imaged and measured using a CCD camera  , in order to determine the laser intensity . Photobleaching experiments were done with the setup above and either 561 nm laser excitation  or Hg-lamp excitation  yielding 5 . Near-infrared laser excitation over the range of 700–1500 nm was provided by either a Ti:sapphire laser  or an OPO  . An overlap range 1000–1080 nm was used to connect the fluorescence spectra generated from the two different excitation sources . The Ti:sapphire beam was long-pass filtered  to remove contaminating visible red spontaneous emission emanating from the Ti:sapphire laser cavity . Fluorescence collected from protein samples , filtered by the dichroic mirror and a 720/SP short-pass and a 625/90 bandpass filter  , was detected by an avalanche photodiode detector  . Two-photon action spectra were determined from excitation spectra of 1 micromolar protein solutions obtained at low laser power  , and comparing these to spectra measured under identical conditions for the reference dyes fluorescein and rhodamine B , for which we used published 2-photon cross section data  to determine action spectra of the red GECIs . This setup was also used to perform FCS in order to measure chromophore concentration at low laser power , and two-photon peak brightness  at high laser power . Peak brightness is the experimentally determined maximum rate of fluorescence per molecule for a given focusing geometry and is a measure of the brightness and photostability of a fluorophore under 2-photon excitation . To determine peak brightness , 20–100 nM solutions of protein in calcium buffer were illuminated at either 1070 nm or 1140 nm at increasing laser power , where at each power setting the mean fluorescence rate F and the mean number of fluorophores N in the laser beam volume were determined by FCS  . Two-photon bleaching measurements of green and red GECIs were acquired from isolated aqueous droplets of protein using a resonant-galvo scanning 2-photon microscope  . 15 NA water immersion objective  , a primary dichroic  , and a secondary dichroic  with green  and red  filters each followed by GaAsP PMTs  . Laser excitation was at 1000 nm or 1070 nm for red GECIs , and 940nm for GCaMP6s . Constructs used to produce AAV included pGP-AAV-SYN1-red GECI-WPRE and the cre-recombinase-activated construct pGP-AAV-FLEX-SYN1-red GECI-WPRE . For simultaneous imaging and cell-attached recording , the exposed brain was covered with a thick 1% agarose layer , and partially covered with a D-shape coverslip . The light source was an Insight DS Dual 120 femtosecond-pulse laser  running at 1040 nm and 1100 nm for jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1 indicators , respectively . For L2/3 , L4 , and L5 imaging , functional images  were collected at 15 Hz . Typical laser powers were 15–60 , 30–75 , and 50–100 mW at the front aperture of the objective for L2/3 , L4 , and L5 imaging , respectively . For L6 imaging , functional images  were collected at 5 Hz . For dual-color imaging we used green and red detection channels  . Bleedthrough of the red signal into the green channel was negligible , and penetration of green signal into the red channel was corrected by linear unmixing . Eight drifting directions were used , separated by 45° , and 5 trials were recorded for each direction , giving a total of 40 stimulus trials per recording session  . For experiments with cell-attached recording  , pipette access required the use of a smaller LCD monitor  placed 10 cm in front of the right eye . During simultaneous imaging and electrophysiology , the optimal grating stimulus was repeatedly played , but the contrast of the stimulus grating was adjusted online to record variable spike rates . To minimize stimulus contamination in the red detection channel , a green colored plexiglass filter  was placed in front of the mouse eye . Data from mice expressing GECIs for 16 to 64 days were used for the following analysis  . The fluorescence time course was measured by averaging all pixels within the ROI , after correction for neuropil contamination  . The neuropil signal Fneuropil  surrounding each cell was measured by averaging the signal of all pixels within a 20 μm circular region from the cell center  . Neuropil correction was applied only to cells with baseline fluorescence  signal stronger than the surrounding neuropil signal by more than 3%; other cells  were excluded from the analysis because F0 could not be reliably estimated . We calculated the decay time of fluorescence after the end of the preferred stimulus . For each cell we averaged responses from five trials; baseline fluorescence and standard deviation were calculated from 1 s before the start of the stimulus . Only cells with fluorescence response peaks with >4 times the standard deviation of the baseline during the last 1 s of the stimulus were analyzed . First , the preferred orientation  of the cell was determined as the stimulus evoking the greatest response . The orientation tuning curve was constructed by measuring the mean ΔF/F0 , averaged over the stimulus period , for each orientation . After establishment of a low-resistance seal  , the stimulus orientation was quickly optimized for individual neurons using recorded spikes . Images  were acquired at 30 Hz and 15 Hz for jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a , respectively . To quantify the fidelity of single AP detection  , we identified single AP events isolated from other APs by >1 s , and 2 APs within a time window of 100 and 150 ms for jRGECO1a and jRCaMP1a respectively , isolated from other APs by >1 s . F0 values were calculated as the average of 10 frames before the first AP , and peak ΔF/ F0 was calculated as the maximum of the ΔF/ F0 trace after the first spike firing , or the maximal ΔF/ F0 noise value for the noise traces . For d-prime calculation and receiver operating characteristic  curves , response templates for various APs were calculated by averaging response traces . The measured n-AP responses were projected on the unit vectors , where n indicates the number of APs in a time bin , as well as noise traces  . The scalar results of projecting the response and noise traces on the unitary response templates were used to calculate d-prime and ROC curves . Time windows in which the APs were fired varied with the number of spikes and the GECI  . Time bins were chosen to reflect the accumulation of calcium signal for large number of APs  . Half rise and decay times were calculated from 2 AP responses . Because DPBS contains saturating calcium  red GECI brightness is maximal . Type Ib boutons on muscle 13 from segment A3-A5 were wide-field imaged in HL-6 saline while corresponding axons were electrically stimulated with a suction electrode driven by a customized stimulator . A mercury lamp  light source was used for excitation and power of less than 5 mW at the objective front aperture was used . The filters for jRGECO1 and jRCaMP1 imaging were: excitation: 543/22 nm; dichroic: 562 nm; emission: 593/40 nm . Embryos  were injected with 20 ng/μl DNA plasmids encoding the red GECI variants under the control of the  pan-neuronal elavl3/HuC promoter  , and 40 ng/μl Tol2 transposase mRNA diluted in E3 medium with 0 . Three and four day post-fertilization embryos showing expression in isolated trigeminal neurons were treated with 1 mg/ml bath-applied α-bungarotoxin for 30 min to block tail movements . 5% low melting temperature agarose , and imaged using a microscope with a 20× , NA=1 objective lens  and an sCMOS camera  . Stimulation voltage was calibrated to elicit an identifiable response to a single pulse in GCaMP6f expressing neurons . One spike in a trigeminal neuron has previously been shown to be sufficient to elicit tail movement  . Image acquisition and stimulus control were handled using Hamamatsu HCImage  software . Red GECIs were expressed in the C . elegans ASH and AWC sensory neurons under the sra-6 and str-2 promoters , respectively . Worms were illuminated with a solid-state lamp  , and fluorescence images  were collected at 10 fps using a 40x , NA=1 . DNA constructs , AAV particles and Drosophila with red GECIs variants were deposited for distribution at Addgene  , the University of Pennsylvania Vector Core  and the Bloomington Drosophila Stock Center  , respectively . "
"We studied such a case where a large set of genes—those coding for the ribosomal proteins—gained cis-regulatory sequences for a particular transcription regulator  in independent fungal lineages . We present evidence that these gains occurred because Mcm1 shares a mechanism of transcriptional activation with an ancestral regulator of the ribosomal protein genes , Rap1 . Specifically , we show that Mcm1 and Rap1 have the inherent ability to cooperatively activate transcription through contacts with the general transcription factor TFIID . Because the two regulatory proteins share a common interaction partner , the presence of one ancestral cis-regulatory sequence can ‘channel’ random mutations into functional sites for the second regulator . Such sets of genes tend to evolve in functionally related groups and are controlled by cis-regulatory sequences for particular transcription regulators , forming a transcription network . However , in many cases—instead of changing the expression pattern of a master regulator—each gene in the network independently acquires the same cis-regulatory sequence , requiring hundreds of mutations across the genome  . Hitchhiking of a cis-regulatory site on a transposable element is a mechanism well-documented in plant and animal evolution , and can rapidly bring genes under new regulatory control  . Alternatively , one transcription regulator can gain a protein-protein interaction with another , followed by the evolution of cis-regulatory sequences  . This latter mechanism is able , at least in principle , to rewire an entire set of genes at once upon evolution of the new protein-protein interaction; the individual gains of binding sites could occur secondarily . Here , we studied an example of transcription network rewiring in which ~100 ribosomal protein genes gained binding sites for the Mcm1 transcription regulator , and we describe evidence supporting a new mechanism for the concerted gains . The gain of Mcm1 binding sites in the ribosomal protein genes occurred in parallel in two respects:  the cis-regulatory sites were gained upstream of a large proportion of the ribosomal proteins in each species; and  they were gained independently approximately 12 – 13 times during Ascomycete evolution . At each gene , several point mutations were probably necessary to produce a close match to the 16-basepair Mcm1 binding site , thus requiring several hundred mutations across the entire gene set . Based on results from a variety of experimental approaches , we argue that the gain of Mcm1 sites was potentiated in several different clades by the presence of an ancestral transcription regulator of the ribosomal protein genes , Rap1 . We demonstrate that Rap1 and Mcm1 have the intrinsic ability to cooperate in the activation of transcription , even when artificially introduced in species in which their sites are not found together . We propose that the intrinsic , ancient ability of both proteins to interact with a common component of the general transcription machinery facilitated the repeated evolution of the Mcm1 sites in independent lineages . Previously , genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation and bioinformatics experiments revealed that Mcm1 cis-regulatory sites evolved independently at the ribosomal protein genes  in several yeast lineages  . To expand this analysis , we used 162 sequenced fungal genomes , identified RPG regulatory regions , and searched for cis-regulatory sequences for Mcm1 and 11 other transcription regulators that are known to regulate ribosomal components in at least one species  . Mcm1 sites were found highly enriched ( -log10  > 6 ) at the RPGs in six different monophyletic groups including the clades represented by Kluyveromyces lactis , Candida glabrata , and Yarrowia lipolytica , as well as the individual species Kazachstania naganishii , Pachysolen tannophilus , and Arthrobotrys oligospora . Mcm1 sites were found moderately enriched ( 6 > -log10  > 3 ) in the RPGs in seven additional lineages . The pattern of yeast lineages containing Mcm1 binding sites upstream of the RPGs could occur through three general scenarios: the Mcm1 binding sites were gained multiple times , they were present in an ancient ancestor and lost multiple times , or a combination of gains and losses . To estimate how many gains and losses occurred during the evolution of Mcm1 sites , we treated the presence of Mcm1 sites ( -log10  > 3 ) as a discrete character and sampled 10 , 000 stochastic character maps from the posterior probability distribution of each of two models   . These models indicate that the number of times Mcm1 sites were gained in the Ascomycete evolution was high  whereas the number of losses is sensitive to the assumptions of the model . Three observations support the idea that the pattern of Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences in the RPGs require independent gains for most of the monophyletic clades and species with Mcm1 sites . First , the gain model is more parsimonious because of the sparse distribution of clades with Mcm1 sites . This is still true when taking into account the ancient interspecies hybridization that occurred in two ancient members of Saccharomycetaceae  because in most likely scenarios , the ancestors are concordant for the absence of Mcm1 sites . Second , other cis-regulatory sequences show similar patterns of evolution to that of Mcm1 . The Dot6/Tod6 and Rim101 motifs are also found upstream of the RPGs in several distantly related clades , although fewer clades than for Mcm1  . These results show that gains and losses of cis-regulatory sequences are common upstream of the RPGs , and that they can be distinguished from each other based on their distinct distributions among species  . Third , it was previously shown that the entire set of genes that Mcm1 regulates changes extensively over the timescale of Ascomycete evolution  , suggesting that conservation from a distant ancestor would be a marked exception to this trend . To test whether the Mcm1 cis-regulatory sites we identified upstream of the RPGs are functional , we linked several full-length RPG upstream intergenic regions to the fluorescent reporter GFP . lactis , each of which has Mcm1 binding sites and measured the expression of these reporters under nutrient-replete conditions . To test whether they contributed to expression , we scrambled the Mcm1 sites . Given that there are many known regulators of ribosomal protein transcription , this demonstrates that Mcm1 plays a non-redundant role in activating these genes in Kl . Given that the Mcm1 cis-regulatory sites increase RPG transcription levels during rapid growth , there are at least two plausible hypotheses for their appearance upstream of the RPGs . In those species that have acquired Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences , the expression of the RPGs is higher than in species without these sequences . The gain of Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences compensate for other cis-regulatory changes that lower expression of the genes , with no net gain in expression levels . This second hypothesis is plausible , in principle , because RPGs are known to lose regulator binding sites as well as gain them  . To distinguish between these hypotheses , we examined directly whether the RPGs have a higher expression level in species that have acquired Mcm1 sites compared to those that have not . To accurately measure differences in RPG expression , we mated different species pairs to form interspecies hybrids; we then measured mRNA levels by RNA-seq and assigned each sequencing read to one genome or the other  . Comparing the expression of orthologous genes in this way controls for differences in ‘trans-acting’ factors like transcription regulators and therefore reflects only differences caused by cis-regulatory changes  . For this allelic expression experiment , we constructed hybrids between Kl . lactis and two other species , Kl . lactis  , but have fewer Mcm1 sites at their RPGs  , suggesting that Mcm1 binding site gains are ongoing in some lineages over this timescale . 05 , we identified 2925 genes showing differential allelic expression out of a total of 4343 orthologs in the Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . To ask broadly whether RPGs have experienced concerted cis-regulatory evolution , in each hybrid we asked whether the RPGs were more likely to show differential allelic expression in one direction relative to all genes in the genome  . In both hybrids , the RPGs showed evidence for cis-regulatory evolution  . However , in both hybrids , the ribosomal protein genes were expressed , on average , lower in the Kl . This observation rules out the hypothesis that the gain of Mcm1 sites over this timescale was simply due to directional selection to increase expression of the ribosomal proteins as a whole  . Instead , it favors the second hypothesis: ongoing evolution of Mcm1 sites in the Kluyveromyces clade compensates  for other cis-regulatory changes that reduce RPG transcript levels . Surprisingly , in all cases , the ribosomal proteins were among the sets of genes with reported directional cis-regulatory evolution  . These observations demonstrate that RPG expression may frequently experience different evolutionary forces between closely related yeast species , and they are consistent with the high rate of gains and losses of cis-regulatory sequences that control RPG transcription . Although RPGs have experienced different selection pressures across different species , this observation does not explain why Mcm1 sites , as opposed to cis-regulatory sequences for many other transcription regulators , are repeatedly gained in the lineages we examined . One possibility is that Mcm1 expression changes under certain environmental conditions , conferring optimal RPG expression levels for the Kluyveromyces clade  . The fact that Mcm1 is expressed across all yeast cell types and —in combination with dedicated regulators—controls many different genes that are part of different expression programs  makes this possibility unlikely and we do not explicitly examine it here . We therefore investigated whether Mcm1 has other characteristics that allow it to gain cis-regulatory sites especially easily at the RPGs . lactis , the Mcm1 sites were gained a fixed distance away from the binding site for another transcription regulator , Rap1 , whose sites at the RPGs were ancestral to Kl . By pooling data from additional species with Rap1-Mcm1 sites , we discovered that the spacing between Mcm1 and Rap1 sites was particularly precise with peaks at 54 , 65 , and 74 basepairs apart , favoring a configuration with the two proteins on the same side of the DNA helix  . In order to understand whether the spacing between Mcm1 and Rap1 sites affects transcriptional activation , we moved a segment of the Kl . lactis RPS23 upstream region that contains the Rap1 and Mcm1 sites into a heterologous reporter containing a basal promoter from S . This construct allowed us to study the Rap1 and Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences independent of the additional regulators of the RPGs . In these experiments the Mcm1 and Rap1 sites were both close to optimal , and we hypothesized that weaker sites would be more likely to reveal a spacing preference . To test this idea , we performed a second series of experiments with the Rap1 and Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences from the Kl . The binding sites from this gene are weaker matches to the Rap1 and Mcm1 position weight matrices  . We hypothesized that the observed sensitivity of transcriptional output to the strength and spacing of Rap1 and Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences reflected cooperative activation of transcription . Deletion of the Mcm1 and Rap1 binding sites individually and in combination showed that the proteins KlMcm1 and KlRap1 activated transcription cooperatively in Kl . One likely explanation for these observations is the evolution of a favorable protein-protein interaction between Rap1 and Mcm1 that occurred around the time that Mcm1 sites appeared at the RPGs in the Kluyveromyces and C . lactis Rap1-Mcm1 reporter into the genome of S . cerevisiae , a species that lacks Mcm1 sites at the RPGs . We found that ScRap1 and ScMcm1 activated expression of the reporter cooperatively  , thereby demonstrating that these proteins have the capacity to work together even in a species where their binding sites did not evolve close proximity  . This result rejects the derived cooperativity model and strongly suggests that the ability of Rap1 and Mcm1 to activate transcription cooperatively was ancestral , existing even in species that did not take advantage of it in regulating the RPGs . Having established that cooperativity of Rap1 and Mcm1 was likely ancestral to the monophyletic clade containing Kluyveromyces and Saccharomyces , we considered three possible mechanisms that could explain ancestral cooperativity:  Rap1 and Mcm1 could bind DNA cooperatively through an ancient , favorable protein-protein interaction ,  they could bind nucleosomal DNA through cooperative displacement of histones , or  they could both bind a third transcription regulator resulting in cooperative transcriptional activation . To test the first possibility , we used a gel-mobility shift assay with a radiolabeled DNA sequence from the Kl . lactis proteins as well as cell lysates from three additional species bound to Rap1 and Mcm1 binding sites cooperatively . In all cases , each protein bound to the RPG promoter DNA independently and did not appear to increase the other’s affinity , indicating that Rap1 and Mcm1 do not , on their own , bind DNA cooperatively  . However , it is unlikely that cooperative nucleosome displacement is the primary mechanism for cooperative activation by Rap1 and Mcm1 at the RPGs . Although Rap1 can indeed bind nucleosomal Rap1 binding sites  , and displace nucleosomes  , it remains bound at the RPGs even during stress conditions when the genes are repressed and show higher levels of nucleosome occupancy  . Furthermore , a general mechanism for the cooperative assembly of all transcription regulators has little explanatory power for why cis-regulatory sites for Mcm1 were repeatedly gained across RPGs rather than sites for many of the ~250 other regulators coded in the yeast genome . We next considered the third possibility , namely that the cooperative transcriptional activation we observe for Rap1 and Mcm1 occurs through the interaction of both with a third factor that catalyzes a rate-limiting step in transcription activation  . To identify possible factors that might directly bind both Rap1 and Mcm1 , we searched the S . SWI/SNF is not required for ribosomal protein transcription  , so it is unlikely that binding to SWI/SNF plays a role in Rap1 and Mcm1 cooperativity at the RPGs . TFIID is a general transcription factor whose direct interaction with Rap1 is required for RPG transcription in S . Furthermore , TFIID activates transcription through contacts with RNA Polymerase II , and its binding to the promoter is a rate-limiting step in the activation of TFIID-dependent genes  , such as the RPGs . The interaction of Rap1 with TFIID has been extensively documented  . Of particular importance is the interaction between the ‘activation domain’ of Rap1 and the Taf5 subunit of TFIID , as mutations that compromise this interaction strongly reduce ribosomal protein gene transcription  . To test directly whether Mcm1 also binds to TFIID  , we performed a Far-Western protein-protein binding assay using purified S . We found that Mcm1 binds directly to the Taf4 subunit  ; using deletions of Taf4 , we further mapped the interaction to the N-terminal region of Taf4  . Although Rap1 also binds to Taf4  , its target is in the C-terminus of this subunit , distinct from the Mcm1 interaction site . The finding that Rap1 and Mcm1 both interact with distinct domains of a common component of the transcription machinery , one whose assembly at the promoter is rate limiting , provides a simple explanation for their ability to activate transcription cooperatively . Because Rap1 is an essential gene , we took advantage of a version of Rap1 with altered DNA-binding specificity  that binds to a non-natural cis-regulatory sequence and confers expression of a reporter  . Rap1AS could then be manipulated without compromising the function of the endogenous Rap1 . As shown in Figure 5A–C , Rap1AS shows cooperative transcriptional activation with Mcm1 . When the activation domain of Rap1AS was mutated by introducing seven point mutations  its ability to activate transcription of a Rap1 reporter strongly decreased , but was not entirely eliminated  . When introduced in the presence of the Rap1-Mcm1 HIS3 reporter , these mutations strongly reduced growth on media containing 3-aminotriazole  , a competitive inhibitor of the HIS3 gene product  , indicating that efficient expression requires an intact Rap1 activation domain  . Taken together , these experiments indicate that the cooperative transcriptional activation by Rap1 and Mcm1 at the RPGs in these clades is due to both proteins interacting with TFIID , a component of the general transcriptional machinery . This idea explains how Mcm1—and not a random mixture of other regulatory proteins—came to be repeatedly gained at the ribosomal protein genes . One prediction is that Rap1 and Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences would occur at the prescribed distance apart but located at other genes besides the RPGs . We searched a subset of hemiascomycete yeast genomes for Rap1-Mcm1 sites with similar spacing and orientation to that observed in the RPGs  . naganishii had 33 , showing that Rap1 and Mcm1 sites can evolve at genes other than the RPGs . A second prediction of our model is that even a sub-optimal Mcm1 site would activate transcription of a regulatory region with an ancestral , strong Rap1 site . Because sub-optimal sites can evolve de novo with much higher probability than optimal sites  , this property would increase the ease by which a large number of functional Mcm1 sites could arise during evolution . To test this prediction , we created a series of GFP reporter constructs with Mcm1 binding sites that drive different levels of expression  . We tested the expression level of each of these Mcm1 sites in the presence and absence of a neighboring Rap1 site in Kl . Consistent with the prediction , most of the sub-optimal Mcm1 sites displayed near wild-type levels of expression in the presence—but not in the absence—of neighboring Rap1 sites . Finally , we asked whether our conclusions are generalizable to other pairs of transcription factors besides Mcm1 and Rap1 . In particular , some of the clades identified in Figure 1A gained Mcm1 sites at RPGs that lack Rap1 sites . To address this question , we centered each RPG intergenic region on the best Mcm1 site and plotted the location of other RPG regulators relative to Mcm1  . This analysis revealed that , in some of these clades , Mcm1 sites were gained varying distances away from the pre-existing sites of other regulators  , suggesting that the evolutionary mechanism we identified with Rap1 and Mcm1 might be a generalizable to other instances of cis-regulatory evolution  . In summary , the experiments we have presented describe a special relationship between Rap1 and Mcm1 by virtue of their interaction with different surfaces of the same rate-limiting component of transcription , TFIID . This relationship between Rap1 and Mcm1 is ancient , and in the next section , we discuss how this property can predispose transcription networks to evolve repeatedly along the same trajectory . Here we have investigated an example of parallel evolution where binding sites for a particular transcription regulator  were gained in a large group of genes  . In three of these lineages , Mcm1 binding sites were gained a fixed distance from the sites for another transcription regulator , Rap1 , and we show that these newly acquired Mcm1 sites are required for full activation of the RPGs . We also show that Mcm1 and Rap1 cooperatively activate these genes . The direct interaction of both of these regulators with a common target , the general transcription factor TFIID , provides a plausible mechanism for this cooperative transcription activation . It also explains why the ability of Rap1 and Mcm1 to work together was ancestral to the more recent gains of Mcm1 sites adjacent to Rap1 sites at the RPGs . How do these observations account for the fact that Mcm1 sites  were repeatedly gained in parallel next to the Rap1 site at the RPGs ? However , the yeast species with Mcm1 sites at the RPGs are from diverse ecological niches  and utilize different nutrient sources  , defying a specific environmental adaptation explanation . Consistent with this view is our observation , based on analyzing interspecies hybrids , that a species in which the Mcm1 sites were gained at the RPGs does not express these genes at higher levels than related species that evolved fewer Mcm1 sites . The model that best fits all of our data holds that the parallel gains arose from the ease with which the functional Mcm1 sites  appeared in evolution , rather than selective pressure for particular adaptation . Specifically , we propose that , in the Kluyveromyces-Saccharomyces ancestor  Rap1 bound to the ribosomal protein genes and activated transcription through interactions with TFIID , as it does in extant species . We further propose that , in the ancestor , Mcm1 activated non-ribosomal genes by interaction with a second site on TFIID , as it does in the extant species S . Any suboptimal Mcm1 site that arose by chance point mutation at a specified distance from a Rap1 site would immediately be functional  because , as we show , even a weak Mcm1 DNA interaction would be stabilized by Mcm1’s intrinsic ability to directly bind TFIID  . The appearance of Mcm1 sites likely occurred concomitantly with the gradual losses of other cis-regulatory sites in the RPGs; in other words , the Mcm1 cis-regulatory sites would fall under selection as other cis-regulatory sites deteriorated by mutation . In essence , we propose that the free energy gained from the intrinsic interaction between Mcm1 and TFIID would favor formation of new Mcm1 sites at the expense of pre-existing cis-regulatory sequences , particularly since the latter provide a larger target for inactivating mutations . This model accounts for why Mcm1 sites  were repeatedly gained at the RPGs and why the distance between Rap1 and Mcm1 sites is constrained in those species in which the gains occurred . Numerous experimental observations support this model and rule out alternative explanations:  in extant species , Rap1 and Mcm1 both interact with TFIID;  They interact with different parts of TFIID;  cooperative transcriptional activation by Mcm1 and Rap1 requires the activation domain of Rap1 , which is known to interact with TFIID;  the spacing between Rap1 and Mcm1 sites in the ribosomal protein genes places the proteins on the same side of the helix but at least 50 bp apart , consistent with a physical interaction with a large complex;  engineered suboptimal Mcm1 sites are functional as long as they are adjacent to Rap1 sites;  Mcm1 and Rap1 have the intrinsic ability to cooperate  even in a species where Mcm1 sites were not gained at the RPGs . We note that this model does not require any change in Rap1 or Mcm1 during the gains of Mcm1 sites at the RPGs . Presumably , Rap1 and Mcm1 activated many genes separately in the ancestor , thus preserving by stabilizing selection their ability to interact with TFIID . cerevisiae even though their binding sites are not found together at the RPGs . According to our model , the ability of the two regulators to work together was ancestral , part of each protein’s intrinsic mechanism of transcriptional activation; therefore , their coupling at the RPGs would avoid such pleiotropic changes . How does this model account for the gains of Mcm1 sites observed in clades where Rap1 does not regulate the RPGs ? In these cases , Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences also show preferred spacing relative to known regulators of the RPGs , specifically Tbf1 and Rrn7 , and we propose that the same type of cooperativity with TFIID can also account for these cases . Indeed , TFIID occupies the promoters of RPGs in human cell lines as well  , raising the possibility that TFIID is a conserved general activator of the RPGs across fungi and animals , while the specific transcription regulators that interact with TFIID simply interchange over this timescale . While our cooperative activation model provides an explanation for the parallel acquisition of Mcm1 cis-regulatory site evolution , selection must have operated to preserve the Mcm1 sites as they arose in the population . As described earlier , we favor a model where the gains of Mcm1 sites compensated for the degradation of other cis-regulatory sequences and thereby fell under selection . However , it is also possible that , in other clades or over shorter timescales , the Mcm1 sites could have been gained due to selection for higher levels of RPG expression . The widespread differences in RPG expression revealed by the published interspecies hybrid experiments suggest that RPG expression may experience strong and shifting selection , helping to account for the surprising observation that transcriptional regulators that control the RPGs vary substantially across species  . We note that the intrinsic cooperativity model is sufficient to explain the gain of Mcm1 sites whether or not any change in selection occurs: if functional Mcm1 sites are relatively easy to form  they will be favored over gains of other cis-regulatory sequences by mutational processes alone . Mutations creating Mcm1 sites and weakening other sites could occur sequentially in either order or simultaneously  , depending on the expression requirements of the RPG at that point in its evolutionary history . We feel that it is likely that most or all of the selection scenarios outlined above have occurred in at least one RPG at some point during the multiple and ongoing gains of Mcm1 sites over millions of years of fungal evolution . While the precise circumstances of each Mcm1 site gain are unknown , intrinsic cooperativity biases the RPGs as a whole toward gaining these sites . Although , on the surface , the parallel gains of Mcm1 sites at the ribosomal genes would seem to require a special evolutionary explanation , our model does not require an extraordinary mechanism beyond individual point mutations in the cis-regulatory region of each gene . However , the ancestral ability of the two key regulators to activate transcription simplifies the path to gaining these sites by producing a phenotypic output from even non-optimal sites . Mcm1 , because of its intrinsic ability to cooperate with Rap1 , can significantly activate transcription at the ribosomal proteins more easily than it would elsewhere in the genome; likewise , Mcm1  would be preferred at the RPGs over regulators that did not share this common direct protein interaction . Thus , the intrinsic cooperativity of Rap1 and Mcm1 ‘channels’ random mutations into functional Mcm1 cis-regulatory sequences , accounting for the observed parallel evolution . The motif was left as-is instead of correcting for the GC-content in each genome , because the purpose of this scoring was to identify DNA sequences that are most similar to the Mcm1 binding site , not those that are most statistically enriched given the GC-content . Calculating enrichment of the binding site in ribosomal protein genes relative to the rest of the genome was done to take into account forces  that affect the prevalence of the motif genome-wide . The Dot6 , Fhl1 , Rap1 , Mcm1 , Rim101 , Sfp1 , and Stb3 motifs were obtained from ScerTF . To estimate the number of gains and losses , species were categorized based on whether their RPGs contained Mcm1 sites ( -log10  > 3 ) or not . We used phytools to simulate 10 , 000 stochastic character maps under the equal rates model  and a different-rates model  assuming Mcm1 sites were a discrete character  . These trees were used to determine the number of gains and losses of Mcm1 sites under each model and find which ancestral nodes were likely to have Mcm1 sites at the RPGs and which were uncertain . Previous studies have indicated that many features of the RPGs are defined by their relative location to the Rap1 binding site  . To identify the relative locations , the best hit for the Rap1 site in each species was identified , then a cutoff was set  for the motif of the second transcription factor . py was used to identify additional genes beyond the RPGs that show a similar pattern of Rap1 and Mcm1 sites near to each other . Rap1 sites that faced toward the gene and had a score greater than 6 . 0 were identified , as were Mcm1 sites with a score above 6 . Then , genes that had both a forward-facing Rap1 site and an Mcm1 site between 52 and 78 bp downstream  were identified . The order of Rap1 and Mcm1 cis-regulatory site appearance in evolution was inferred by the distribution of the sites in closely related species with available genome sequences . These reporters allow full intergenic regions to be cloned upstream of GFP or HIS3 , with the break between the original gene sequence and the reporter gene occurring at the start codon . These were cloned using a 2:1 ratio into pTS16 digested with the same restriction enzyme sites , and ligated using Fastlink ligase  to make pTS170 and pTS174 . To scramble Mcm1 and Rap1 binding sites , these sites were put into a text scrambler , then the resulting sequences were queried in ScerTF  to see if they contained matches to any other known transcription factor binding site motifs . To make pTS171 , pTS175 , and pTS243-246 DNA sequences were synthesized containing scrambled Mcm1 , Rap1 sites , or both . lactis RPS23 Rap1-Mcm1 operator upstream of the CYC1 promoter . The constructs testing the spacing between Rap1 and Mcm1 sites  were cloned using the same approach . For pTS209-224 the endogenous spacing was 80 bp so the entire series was made with deletions starting immediately downstream from the Rap1 site . The reporters testing how weak Mcm1 sites cooperate with Rap1 were cloned by first adding a BamHI site along with a palindromic Mcm1 site  into the reporter containing the K . lactis RPS23 Rap1-Mcm1 operator to make pTS247 and pTS248  . For each variant , two point mutations were made to preserve the palindromic nature of the Mcm1 binding site  . For the spacing and weak Mcm1 reporter series , the reporters are enumerated in the plasmid list but not the strain list . The HIS3 reporters were generated by performing PCR on the equivalent GFP reporters to generate wild-type , Rap1AS , and scrambled versions of the RPS23 fragment containing Rap1 and Mcm1 binding sites with NcoI and SacII restriction sites on the ends . lactis × Kl . lactis and Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . wickerhamii hybrids  was sequenced , along with all three isolates of the Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis ×Kl . Next , each of the genomic DNA isolates was aligned separately to each of four genomes: Kl . lactis , Kl . lactis ×Kl . lactis ×Kl . lactis , Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis × Kl . Second , they were divided by the gDNA read counts from each gene , thus controlling for the effect of two Kl . lactis × Kl . lactis ortholog read count was divided by either the Kl . To test for concerted differential allelic expression in the ribosomal proteins , as well as across all gene ontology  terms , the geometric mean of each group of genes was calculated , then tested by the hypergeometric test to see if they were enriched for genes at least 1 . His6-Rap1  used in main text gel shift experiments was expressed using a previously generated pET28a-Rap1 expression vector in Rosetta II DE3 E . 5 – 1 for 4 hr with 1 mM IPTG at 37°C , cell pellets from 500 mL of culture were resuspended in 20 ml of Rap1 Lysis/Wash buffer ( 25 mM HEPES-NaOH  , 10% v/v glycerol , 300 mM NaCl , 0 . 5 mL Ni-NTA agarose  equilibrated with Rap1 Lysis/Wash buffer for 3 hr at 4°C to allow for His6-Rap1 protein binding . Following 3 washes with Rap1 Lysis/Wash buffer , Ni-NTA agarose-bound proteins were transferred to a disposable column and eluted using Rap1 Lysis/Wash buffer containing 200 mM Imidazole . cerevisiae Mcm1 for the gel shift and Far Western protein-protein binding assays presented in the main text , S . cerevisiae MCM1 was cloned into a vector that would allow its expression and purification with an N-terminal MBP tag and PreScission protease cleavage site . cerevisiae MCM1 was amplified from S . MBP-3C-Mcm1 vector was expressed in yeast grown to an OD600 of ~3 in 1% w/v raffinose via induction with 2% w/v galactose for 3 hr at 30˚C . Yeast cell pellets obtained from 1L of culture were resuspended in 4 mL Mcm1 Lysis Buffer ( 20 mM HEPES-KOH  , 500 mM potassium acetate , 10% v/v glycerol , 0 . Soluble cell extract was obtained via centrifugation and mixed with 2 mL DE-52 resin pre-equilibrated with Mcm1 Lysis Buffer for 5 min at 4˚C . Amylose resin-bound proteins were transferred to a disposable column , washed with 10 column volumes of Mcm1 Wash Buffer  and eluted with 10 column buffers of Mcm1 Wash Buffer containing 10 mM maltose . For gel shift reactions , the N-terminal MBP tag was removed by incubating multiple 50 μl reactions each containing 12 pmol MBP-Mcm1 and 48 pmol lab-generated 3C protease for 30 min at 4˚C . Taf1-TAP TFIID used for Far Western protein-protein binding analyses was purified via a modified tandem affinity protocol as previously described  . To generate material for the gel shift experiments in the supplement , the full-length Rap1-His6 protein from Kl . Rap1 was amplified from genomic DNA and cloned into the pLIC-H3 expression vector using XmaI and XhoI to make pTS207 . The full-length Mcm1-HA protein from Kl . cerevisiae His6-Rap1 and Mcm1 were incubated either individually or in combination in increasing amounts as indicated in the figure legend . All binding reactions were performed using 10 fmol  of a 79 bp 32P-labeled fragment of the Kl . lactis RPS23 promoter containing the Rap1 and Mcm1 binding sites generated via PCR , EcoRI restriction enzyme digestion , and native PAGE purification . For competition reactions , binding was performed in the presence of 100-fold molar excess of cold Rap1 WT  or Rap1 scrambled  sequences and/or the Mcm1 WT  or Mcm1 scrambled  . Purified proteins tested for direct interaction with Mcm1 in Far western protein-protein binding assays were separated on parallel 4 – 12% NuPAGE Bis-Tris polyacrylamide gels  . 5 pmol Taf1-TAP TFIID , 1 pmol His6-Taf3 , and 1 pmol His6-Taf4 were used in the assay to test for direct Mcm1 interaction with TFIID subunits . In the assay used to identify the Taf4 Mcm1 binding domain , ~0 . The overlays were performed overnight with 10 nM MBP or 10 nM MBP-Mcm1 with 1% BSA  as a nonspecific competitor in renaturation buffer . Bound MBP- or MBP-Mcm1 was detected using a standard immunoblotting protocol ( primary antibody MBP  , used at a dilution of 1:5 , 000 , secondary antibody horse anti-mouse IgG , HRP-linked  , used at a dilution of 1:5 , 000 ) . "
"In contrast to FASN , mtFAS is poorly characterized , especially in higher eukaryotes , with the major product  , metabolic roles , and cellular function  being essentially unknown . Here we show that hypomorphic mtFAS mutant mouse skeletal myoblast cell lines display a severe loss of electron transport chain  complexes and exhibit compensatory metabolic activities including reductive carboxylation . This effect on ETC complexes appears to be independent of protein lipoylation , the best characterized function of mtFAS , as mutants lacking lipoylation have an intact ETC . Finally , mtFAS impairment blocks the differentiation of skeletal myoblasts in vitro . Together , these data suggest that ETC activity in mammals is profoundly controlled by mtFAS function , thereby connecting anabolic fatty acid synthesis with the oxidation of carbon fuels . Aside from the import of exogenous fatty acids , mammalian cells use the well-known and well-studied cytoplasmic enzyme fatty acid synthase  to make palmitate , which is further modified to form the diverse array of cellular fatty acids  . In contrast to FASN , which is a very large protein that contains several domains and encompasses all of the enzymatic activities necessary for FAS condensed in a single polypeptide chain , the mtFAS pathway is comprised of at least six enzymes all encoded by separate genes . The nascent fatty acids are covalently attached to the mitochondrial acyl carrier protein  , which acts as a soluble scaffold upon which the acyl chains are built . In each cycle of the pathway , malonyl-CoA is converted to malonyl-ACP , which then undergoes a condensation reaction with the growing fatty acyl chain on ACP , extending the chain by two carbons and releasing a CO2 molecule . Thereafter , the remaining enzymes in the pathway must carry out a series of reduction and dehydration reactions to fully reduce the acyl chain to a saturated fatty acid , which is the substrate for further cycles of two-carbon addition . Among the several differences between mtFAS and cytoplasmic FAS , FASN exclusively produces palmitate , whereas mtFAS appears to have at least two major products . Although the human genes responsible for each step in the mtFAS pathway have been identified , and their ability to complement the orthologous mutants in yeast has been demonstrated  , few loss-of-function studies have examined the consequences of mtFAS deficiency in mammalian systems . Inducible knockout of the mitochondrial malonyl CoA-acyl carrier protein transacylase  using a Cre driver that expresses in most tissues in mice results in a severe phenotype characterized by weight loss , reduced muscle strength , and shortened lifespan despite the persistence of residual MCAT protein  . Knockout of the mitochondrial 2-enoyl thioester reductase , Mecr , is lethal in mice due to a placental defect  , while the inducible knockout of Mecr specifically in Purkinje cells leads to loss of this cell population and recapitulates many phenotypes of MePaN syndrome , the human disease caused by Mecr mutation  . While these detrimental phenotypes are clear , the molecular consequences of mtFAS loss remain poorly understood . MtFAS currently has one known product: an eight-carbon saturated fatty acid , octanoate , that is subsequently converted to lipoic acid . This important cofactor is required for the catalytic activity of a number of mitochondrial enzymes , most notably pyruvate dehydrogenase and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase  , but also branched chain amino acid dehydrogenase , the H protein of the glycine cleavage system , and 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase  . This observation , made more than 20 years ago , has guided mtFAS-focused research for the past two decades . Studies have shown that loss of lipoic acid synthesis and/or failure to efficiently transfer lipoic acid to its target proteins is lethal in mice  , and attributed other mitochondrial changes as downstream of lipoic acid synthesis  . However , though the mouse studies described above have demonstrated striking phenotypes that result from loss of mtFAS , they fail to distinguish between direct effects of loss of protein lipoylation versus loss of other mtFAS function  . Although lipoic acid unmistakably has important central functions in mitochondrial metabolism , there is reason to be skeptical that the sole function of mtFAS is the production of lipoic acid . In addition to the eight-carbon precursor for lipoic acid , it is clear that mtFAS also produces longer acyl chains of at least 14 carbons , yet the identity of these lipids and their cellular functions are uncertain  . We set out to systematically examine the cellular functions of the mtFAS pathway by mutating genes that encode three distinct steps in the pathway , Mcat , Oxsm , and Mecr . For comparison , we also engineered cells with loss of Lipt1 , the terminal enzyme in the production of lipoylated enzymes downstream of mtFAS . We found that several phenotypes resulting from loss of the mtFAS pathway are not related to lipoic acid , but must instead be due to loss of other products or functions of mtFAS . In particular , we find that loss of mtFAS , but not lipoic acid synthesis , leads to a profound impairment in the assembly of the mitochondrial electron transport chain machinery , with the attendant consequences on metabolism and cell behaviors . Our data therefore suggest that the mtFAS pathway acts as a key regulator of mitochondrial respiratory metabolism . The enzymes of mtFAS are ubiquitously expressed in mammalian tissues , with the highest expression in skeletal muscle and heart  . We employed a CRISPR/Cas9-based strategy to mutate three genes encoding enzymes in the mtFAS pathway , using two different guide RNA sequences per gene . We targeted Mcat , encoding the malonyl-CoA ACP transacylase , Oxsm , encoding the beta-ketoacyl synthase that condenses malonyl-ACP with the growing acyl chain , and Mecr , encoding the terminal reductase in each cycle of two-carbon unit addition  . It is important to note that because mtFAS is a cycle that requires all enzymes for each stepwise two-carbon addition , loss of each individual enzyme blocks fatty acid synthesis at an early , albeit distinct step . Mcat mutants should be unable to attach any carbon to ACP , whereas Oxsm mutants should be able to produce malonyl-ACP , and Mecr mutants could at most build short four-carbon acyl chains . We found that transfection with Cas9 and sgRNAs targeting mtFAS genes led to smaller colonies at one-week post-single cell sorting relative to control guides  . This finding was not altogether unexpected , given that at least one other knockdown study concluded that NDUFAB1 , the mammalian mitochondrial ACP , is essential in HEK293T cells  . Indeed , The Broad Institute’s Depmap lists NDUFAB1 as a ‘common essential’ gene , and the mtFAS genes all display negative gene effects , indicating they are essential in at least some cell lines  . Taken together , our results strongly support the conclusion that the mtFAS pathway is essential in C2C12 skeletal myoblasts . Although no complete null clones were generated , we were able to isolate several clonal cell lines with markedly decreased abundance of MCAT , OXSM , and MECR . Growth of mtFAS mutant cells in both glucose and galactose , the latter of which requires mitochondrial respiration , was normalized by re-expression of the cognate mtFAS gene  . MECR has been reported to have dual localization to the cytoplasm in addition to mitochondria  , so we performed sub-cellular fractionation to assess these two MECR populations in our mutant cells . As mentioned previously , the canonical function of mtFAS is the production of octanoate , the eight-carbon precursor for lipoic acid synthesis . However , some have speculated that mtFAS might also generate fatty acids that contribute to phospholipid synthesis . Although mtFAS mutant yeast display changes in steady-state lipids , the interpretation of this observation is confounded by other phenotypes of these cells  . In the only study that examines the role of mtFAS in lipid synthesis in mammals , transient knockdown of ACP did not change the abundance of mitochondrial lipids; however , this does not exclude the possibility that cytoplasmic FAS can compensate for loss of mtFAS  . We therefore set out to test whether mtFAS contributes to cellular phospholipid pools in the presence and absence of the cytosolic fatty acid synthase , FASN . In wild type and Oxsm mutant cell lines , we stably expressed hairpins targeting FASN , which encodes the cytoplasmic fatty acid synthase , or a scrambled control  . We then fed the cells uniformly labeled 13C-glucose and observed labeling in cellular lipids to define the relative contributions of cytoplasmic FAS and mtFAS to various cellular lipid pools . By monitoring accumulation of the m+two isotopologue over time , we observed a dependence on FASN expression , but not mtFAS for the synthesis of new phospholipids  . Similarly , fatty acid methyl esther analysis  showed an effect of FASN knockdown , but not Oxsm mutation , on incorporation of U13C-glucose into c16:0 and c18:0 lipids , which confirmed that the m+2 labeling of phospholipids is likely in the fatty acid tails  . These experiments demonstrate that longer acyl chains synthesized by mtFAS do not contribute to cellular fatty acid and phospholipid pools and likely perform some other function . Given the known and hypothesized functions of mtFAS , we next assayed mitochondrial function in the mtFAS mutant cells . We performed a standard Seahorse mitochondrial stress test in high glucose medium and found that the mtFAS mutant cells displayed a roughly 30–40% decrease in basal respiration rate compared with controls  . More strikingly , the mtFAS mutants exhibited a lack of spare respiratory capacity , with FCCP-stimulated uncoupled respiration rates that were similar to the initially measured basal respiration  . Interestingly , Oxsm and Mecr mutants exhibited an increased basal extracellular acidification rate , suggesting that these cell lines compensate for decreased respiration via increased glycolysis , whereas Mcat mutants do not  . In agreement with the observed decrease in cellular respiration , mtFAS mutants also show a markedly decreased mitochondrial membrane potential , as measured by the ratio of MitoTracker Red to MitoTracker Green fluorescence  . Concurrent decreases in mitochondrial membrane potential and respiration can have several causes ranging from altered substrate utilization and TCA cycle activity to decreased expression and/or activity of electron transport chain  complexes . Strikingly , fully assembled ETC complex I  , complex II  , and complex IV  were almost completely absent in mtFAS mutant mitochondria  . In contrast , complex III  was relatively unaffected by loss of mtFAS , although CIII-containing supercomplexes  were absent , likely resulting from loss of CI and CIV . Furthermore , while CIII abundance and assembly were relatively unaffected , its activity was reduced in each of the mtFAS-deficient cells  . Altogether , these results depict a severe respiratory deficiency in mtFAS mutant cells , characterized by the striking loss of stably assembled OXPHOS complexes in mtFAS mutant mitochondria . To further examine the mechanisms underlying loss of ETC complexes in mtFAS mutant cells , we performed an unbiased quantitative proteomics experiment on duplicate whole cell lysates from three mtFAS mutant clones  and two control clones . Overall , there was no general trend for the steady-state abundance of mitochondrial proteins , with 77 proteins being statistically more abundant and 34 proteins being decreased in abundance  . We also observed that the majority of the proteins that comprise OXPHOS complexes were likewise similar in abundance between control and mtFAS mutant cells , including those in Complexes I , II and IV  , despite the decrease in abundance of the completely assembled complexes by blue-native PAGE  . However , a subset of eight OXPHOS proteins displayed significantly decreased abundance in both Oxsm and Mecr mutant cell lines compared to controls , including NDUFA6 , NDUFA12 , NDUFS4 , NDUFS6 , SDHB , COX5a , COX5b , and ATPIF1  . To test whether these changes were transcriptional , we performed RNAseq analysis on control and mtFAS mutant cells . However , we found no significant changes in the abundance of transcripts encoding ETC component proteins  , implying that the observed decrease in abundance of these proteins is likely due to post-translational regulation . The two proteins that were most decreased in abundance , NDUFA6 and SDHB  , also stood out because of their relationships with the leucine-tyrosine-arginine motif  protein family , a family of small proteins chiefly comprised of late-stage ETC assembly factors  . In many cases , such as for Complex II , LYRM proteins  bind to and facilitate the insertion of a target protein  in the final stage of ETC complex assembly  . LYRM proteins are also found as a stable component of the NFS-containing iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis  complex  as well as in an assembly intermediate of the mitochondrial ribosome   . High-throughput interactomics studies in mammalian systems and targeted experiments in yeast have identified physical interactions between ACP and several LYRM proteins  . Interestingly , the ACP protein found in complex with LYRM proteins appears often to have maintained its acyl modification , which is generated through the sequential actions of the mtFAS enzymes as described above  . Studies have shown that the acyl chain on ACP is intimately involved in these physical interactions , folding into the middle of the LYRM proteins , but the role of ACP acylation in its varied functions is mostly untested  . In addition to the structurally verified ACP-LYRM interactions , three other LYRM family members with known target proteins have been suggested to interact with ACP based on high-throughput interactomics studies: SDHAF1 and SDHAF3 , discussed above , and LYRM7 , which mediates the addition of UQCRFS1 in the last step of complex III assembly  . To verify whether ACP in fact interacts with these additional LYRM family members , we expressed epitope-tagged variants of ACP and each LYRM in cells and confirmed their physical interaction via co-immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting  . Along with other published data  , the finding that NDUFA6 , a known LYRM protein , and SDHB , the target of two known LYRM proteins , exhibit decreased abundance in mtFAS mutant cell lines supports the hypothesis that interaction with an acylated ACP is required for the complex assembly functions of these LYRM proteins . This finding prompted us to examine the abundance of other LYRM proteins and their targets in the mtFAS mutant cell lines . Indeed , LYRM4 and its target NFS1 were also significantly decreased in abundance in our whole cell proteomics dataset , which was confirmed by western blot , implying that LYRM4 also requires acylated ACP for the stability and function of itself and NFS1  . Interestingly , NDUFB9 , the other CI LYRM , and UQCRFS1 , a subunit of CIII and the target of LYRM7 , were not significantly decreased in abundance in mtFAS mutant cells  , implying that either the interactions between ACP and these LYRM proteins is not dependent on acylation and mtFAS , or that other compensatory mechanisms are at play . Finally , ACP has also been found to interact with an assembly intermediate of the mitochondrial ribosome through a novel LYRM protein called altMiD51 and its target , MALSU1  . proposed that this interaction might negatively regulate mitochondrial translation because MALSU1 , altMiD51 , and ACP bind the large mitochondrial ribosomal subunit in a way that precludes small subunit binding , but the role of ACP acylation in this interaction is unclear  . Despite this proposed role of ACP in mitochondrial translation , we found that the abundance of mitochondrially encoded proteins was unchanged in the mtFAS mutant cell lines  . Importantly , this includes MTCO1 and MTCO2 , two subunits of CIV , strongly implying that the diminution of CIV in mutant cells does not result from loss of mitochondrial translation . Interestingly , however , MALSU1 was significantly decreased in abundance  , which raises the possibility that MALSU1 downregulation might be a compensatory adaptation that the cells make to avoid collapse of mitochondrial translation upon loss of mtFAS . The profound defects observed in mitochondrial respiration led us to examine mitochondrial and cellular metabolism more comprehensively in our mtFAS mutants . We first performed steady-state metabolomics analysis on control and mtFAS mutant cells . Purines were among the most significantly depleted metabolites in mtFAS mutants , but we observed no change in pyrimidines  . mtFAS mutants exhibited robust pyruvate accumulation , in agreement with the decreased lipoylation and reduced activity of PDH , but only a minor and statistically insignificant increase in intracellular lactate  . Aspartate , the synthesis of which requires the TCA cycle metabolite oxaloacetate and an electron acceptor such as the ETC  , was strongly depleted in the mtFAS mutant cells  . To further understand how TCA cycle metabolism is affected by impairment of mtFAS , we fed the cells uniformly labelled 13C-glutamine for 24 hr and assessed labeling of TCA cycle intermediates to monitor glutamine contribution to TCA cycle flux  . First , glutamate cycling in the TCA cycle is decreased in the mtFAS mutant cells . However , in pre-steady state measurements we observed reduced labeling of glutamate in mtFAS mutants  . Furthermore , after 24 hr of labeling , the mtFAS-deficient cells showed reduced fractional enrichments of the glutamate m+three and m+one isotopologues , which are synthesized on subsequent turns of the TCA cycle  . These data are consistent with decreased processivity of the TCA cycle in cells lacking mtFAS . In mtFAS mutant cells , m+two succinate labeling is reduced while m+four accumulates , indicating its decreased cycling in the TCA cycle  . These data and the reduced abundances of fumarate and malate support a block of the TCA cycle at the succinate dehydrogenase  catalyzed step , and is in agreement with our data that demonstrate decreased steady state SDHB stability and a near-complete loss of fully assembled Complex II  . Finally , the third observation we made from these data is that mtFAS mutants displayed significantly increased levels of m+five citrate  , which is formed from the reductive carboxylation of α-ketoglutarate , and is the canonical marker of reductive carboxylation . Previous analysis of the reductive pathway concluded , as we observed here , that cells with ETC defects continue to produce succinate by the oxidative pathway , perhaps to generate reducing equivalents to drive reductive carboxylation  . Furthermore , mtFAS mutants invoke reductive carboxylation to produce citrate , and reductive labeling of downstream metabolites is also increased . Reductive carboxylation is often seen in models of ETC inhibition or mutation  and further supports the model that hypomorphic mtFAS mutant skeletal myoblasts display significant ETC dysfunction . The best-studied function of mtFAS is the biosynthesis of octanoate , the eight-carbon precursor of lipoic acid , but it also produces longer acyl chains . This raises the possibility that there are at least two independent mechanisms whereby mtFAS might act on mitochondrial function: one via lipoic acid synthesis and another in which these longer acyl chains facilitate the acyl-ACP dependent activation of LYRM proteins in ETC complex assembly . Therefore , we decided to determine whether the metabolic phenotypes observed in mtFAS mutant cells are also found in cells containing an intact mtFAS system , but lacking the ability to transfer lipoic acid to target proteins , including the 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases  . We created mutant cell lines for Lipt1 , the gene that encodes the terminal enzyme in protein lipoylation  . In these mutants , synthesis of octanoate and longer acyl chains by mtFAS should be unaffected , as Lipt1 catalyzes the terminal step in lipoic acid transfer to its target proteins downstream of mtFAS  . Similar to mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutant cells displayed undetectable protein lipoylation  , with no change in the expression of MCAT , OXSM , and MECR proteins  . The fact that mtFAS mutants and Lipt1 mutants both have drastically reduced protein lipoylation , below the limit of detection via western blotting , allows us to attribute any phenotypes observed in mtFAS mutants that are not phenocopied by Lipt1 mutants to non-lipoic acid products of mtFAS . Like mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutants display an analogous , albeit somewhat milder respiratory phenotype  . However , in sharp contrast to the destabilization of ETC complexes observed in mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutants largely maintain an assembled ETC , with similar levels of CI , CII , and SC as in control cells  . Notably , CV was more destabilized in Lipt1 mutants than in mtFAS mutants , suggesting a mtFAS-independent mode of CV regulation by LIPT1 outside of lipoic acid  . Nevertheless , it appears that the mtFAS-dependent regulation of CI and CII is essentially independent of lipoic acid synthesis and therefore likely involves some other lipid product of mtFAS . Finally , we wanted to determine which portions of the metabolic phenotypes resulting from mtFAS loss are attributable to loss of protein lipoylation . We found that , in contrast to mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutants had normal abundance of TCA cycle metabolites  . U13C-glutamine flux experiments showed that LIPT1 loss caused a reduction in oxidative labeling and at most a small increase in reductive labeling of fumarate and malate  , consistent with its small effects on OCR and ETC assembly and with similar labeling effects in fibroblasts from LIPT1-deficient patients  . In all , our data strongly support a model in which mtFAS-dependent acyl chains facilitate acyl-ACP/LYRM interactions to support the biosynthesis of ETC complexes independent of lipoic acid . Indeed , when treated with differentiation medium for up to seven days , mtFAS mutant cell lines almost completely failed to differentiate , as monitored by the formation of multinucleated myotubes  . To further explore the effect of mtFAS mutation on differentiation , we immunoblotted for MyoD , Myog , and MHC in proliferative conditions  and at 1 , 3 , and 7 days of culture in differentiation medium . Although MyoD expression was largely unaffected in mtFAS mutant cells , Myog induction appeared to be decreased or absent in mtFAS cells  . Similarly , the Myog target protein MHC was almost undetectable in mtFAS mutant cells  . Interestingly , in two of the three mtFAS mutant clones assayed , Mef2c transcripts were also strikingly down-regulated compared with control  , which raises the possibility that it plays a particularly important role in the connection of mtFAS and mitochondrial metabolism with myocyte differentiation . Steady state metabolomics analysis of mtFAS mutant cell lines revealed a large increase in αKG as well as in the αKG/succinate ratio  , suggesting a possible mechanism for the impairment of Myog induction and myocyte differentiation . Here we have shown that three genes in the mtFAS pathway  are likely essential in cultured mammalian skeletal myoblasts . Strikingly , mtFAS impairment results in a profound mitochondrial phenotype characterized by loss of assembled ETC complexes I , II , and IV . Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed the specific decreases in the abundance of two LYRM proteins , NDUFA6 , a subunit of CI , and LYRM4 , a member of the ISC complex , along with its target protein , NFS1 , and another LYRM target , SDHB . Importantly , the LYRM proteins that coordinate SDHB in CII assembly , SDHAF1 and SDHAF3 , were not identified in our proteomics dataset , however we infer that they are likely also decreased in abundance in mtFAS mutant cells , giving rise to the observed effect on SDHB . Our data together with that from multiple other eukaryotic model systems support a model in which this effect is mediated through the physical interaction of acyl-ACP with LYRM proteins , resulting in their acylation-dependent activation and functional assembly of ETC complexes  . In contrast to mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutants can still synthesize acyl chains on ACP , but fail to transfer lipoate to its target proteins downstream of mtFAS . Thus , like mtFAS mutants , Lipt1 mutants lose detectable lipoylation of PDH and OGDH , and have impaired mitochondrial respiration . However , the acylation-dependent activation of LYRM proteins and ETC complex assembly appears to require lipid products of mtFAS other than lipoic acid , as although Lipt1 mutants lose protein lipoylation , they maintain mitochondrial ETC complexes I-IV . We also found that mtFAS mutants and Lipt1 mutants both undergo significantly decreased oxidative TCA cycling , however only mtFAS mutants appear to display decreased abundance of TCA cycle intermediates and robustly employ reductive carboxylation . As both mtFAS mutants and Lipt1 mutants have undetectable lipoylated PDH and OGDH , but only mtFAS mutants have impaired synthesis of longer acyl chains on ACP , these data suggest that it is these longer acyl chains that are important for the interaction of acyl-ACP and activation of LYRM proteins . the mtFAS pathway are treated . For example , it is unclear how mtFAS impairment leads to the instability of Complex IV . One possibility is simply that CIV is less stable outside of its association with respiratory supercomplexes , which are almost completely absent in mtFAS mutant cells , likely as a result of Complex I loss . Alternatively , COX5A and COX5B are among the most affected ETC subunits by proteomics , and could be the targets of either a novel LYRM protein or another mtFAS-dependent mechanism . Of the currently annotated LYRM proteins , at least three  have no known molecular target , although LYRM2 has recently been implicated in CI assembly in addition to NDUFA6 and NDUFB9  . As mentioned above , we observed decreases in abundance of two LYRM proteins , NDUFA9 and LYRM4 , and can infer the destabilization of SDHAF1 and SDHAF3 from the decreased abundance of SDHB . Conversely , we did not observe destabilization of NDUFB9 and UQCRFS1 upon mtFAS mutation , implying that NDUFB9 and LYRM7 are not dependent on ACP acylation for their stability and functions , although orthologs in other eukaryotes seemed to be  . However , it is possible that this effect could result from residual mtFAS activity , as complete knockout of the mtFAS pathway proved impossible in this system . Furthermore , at least in the case of UQCRFS1 and LYRM7 , the maintenance of CIII may have been clonally selected for as cells require CIII function for quinone oxidation and dihydroorotate dehydrogenase activity to make uridine  . Therefore , cells that lack CIII are auxotrophic for orotate or uridine , and lack of these metabolites in the culture medium may have provided selective pressure for clones that employ some mechanism to escape the mtFAS-dependent regulation of CIII . In fact , it is tempting to speculate that assembly of CIII may be an essential function of mtFAS in mammalian cells . Acetyl-CoA is the nearly universal fuel of mitochondrial oxidative metabolism , being the convergence point of the catabolism of carbohydrates , fatty acids , ketones and some amino acids . Acetyl-CoA is also the common substrate of mtFAS and the TCA cycle , where it is broken down to produce the reduced NADH and FADH2 that fuel the electron transport chain . Thus , the interaction of acyl-ACP with the LYRM proteins to facilitate ETC assembly has high potential to be a regulatory mechanism whereby acetyl-CoA regulates its own catabolism  . In other words , as acetyl-CoA is the substrate for mtFAS , it is required for ACP acylation , which in turn is required for interaction with and activation of LYRM proteins and ETC assembly . Thus , when acetyl-CoA is low , ACP acylation is diminished , ETC assembly is blunted , TCA cycling slows , and acetyl-CoA consumption falls . This hypothesis is supported by the observation that yeast with defects in mitochondrial pyruvate metabolism exhibit blunted ACP acylation and impaired ETC assembly  . This elegant regulatory cycle provides cells with a potential mechanism to monitor acetyl-CoA substrate availability and adjust ETC complex levels accordingly , avoiding situations where the ETC sits idle in the absense of substrate , and reducing the attendant deleterious consequences , such as the production of reactive oxygen species . Human mutations in genes encoding enzymes of the mtFAS pathway are rare , but continue to be discovered  . Intriguingly , patients with Mecr mutations exhibit muscle weakness and we show herein that mtFAS mutation interferes with the normal differentiation of cultured myoblasts  . For example , many age-related human diseases exhibit evidence of decreased mitochondrial respiration , including frequent defects in OXPHOS complex assembly , suggesting the interesting possibility that alterations in mtFAS might contribute to mitochondrial impairments in human disease . The role  of mtFAS in aging and more prevalent diseases that also involve mitochondrial pathologies such as diabetes , heart disease , and cancer are essentially unstudied . This raises the intriguing prospect that augmenting mtFAS pathway function could ‘boost’ or rescue mitochondrial oxidative metabolism in settings where mitochondrial respiration is sub-optimal . Recent studies have shown enhancement of mitochondrial metabolism upon ACP overexpression , although the molecular mechanisms and dependence of these phenotypes on mtFAS are unclear  . Understanding the rate limiting steps in the cycle , its mode of regulation , and the mechanisms through which it can be manipulated could one day allow mtFAS to be harnessed therapeutically to build better mitochondria and treat metabolic disease . To generate mtFAS knockout clones , two guides per gene were designed targeting exon 1 or exon 2 of the mouse Mcat , Oxsm , and Mecr genes  and cloned in the pLentiCRISPR v2 vector . Three Oxsm and Mecr mutant clones , three control clones , and two Mcat mutant clones were ultimately selected for further experiments . For rescue experiments , control , Mcat , Oxsm , and Mecr mutant clonal cell lines were infected with retrovirus harboring a control transfer plasmid  or pQXCIP expressing the indicated mtFAS gene off the full CMV  or Δ4 , 5 truncated CMV promoter  . mtFAS genes were cloned from mouse cDNA isolated from NIH3T3L1 cells . 10 µg/mL Polybrene  was added and a 1:1 mixture of viral supernatant and fresh growth medium  was applied directly to Oxsm mutant cells , along with wild type C2C12 controls , and incubated for 16 hr at 37°C in a humidified incubator with 5% CO2 . To establish LIPT1 mutant clones , two guides were designed targeting the coding region of the mouse Lipt1 gene and cloned in the px459 vector . GFP positive cells were subsequently plated to obtain single cell colonies and screened based on LIPT1 protein levels and lipoylation of pyruvate dehydrogenase  and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase  . Quadruplicate biological replicates of mtFAS mutant and control cells were plated at 35% confluence in normal growth medium , then switched to labeling medium ( DMEM base  , supplemented with 25 mM U13C-glucose  and 4 mM glutamine  ) for 0 , 0 . Duplicate biological samples of two control clones , two Oxsm mutant clones , and two Mecr mutant clones were grown in standard proliferative conditions to 70% confluence and harvested by incubation with 0 . MtFAS mutants and controls were seeded in 10 cm plates and grown in DMEM  supplemented with 10% FBS  to 70% confluency  . "
"Vertebrates acquired dim-light vision when an ancestral cone evolved into the rod photoreceptor at an unknown stage preceding the last common ancestor of extant jawed vertebrates  . The jawless lampreys provide a unique opportunity to constrain the timing of this advance , as their line diverged ∼505 Ma and later displayed high-morphological stability . We recorded with patch electrodes the inner segment photovoltages and with suction electrodes the outer segment photocurrents of Lampetra fluviatilis retinal photoreceptors . Several key functional features of jawed vertebrate rods are present in their phylogenetically homologous photoreceptors in lamprey: crucially , the efficient amplification of the effect of single photons , measured by multiple parameters , and the flow of rod signals into cones . These results make convergent evolution in the jawless and jawed vertebrate lines unlikely and indicate an early origin of rods , implying strong selective pressure toward dim-light vision in Cambrian ecosystems . Lampreys , the only surviving jawless vertebrates together with the related hagfish  , are a pivotal resource for gaining further insight into early vertebrate vision . Adult lampreys have camera-type eyes with layered retinas containing all the major neuronal classes present in jawed vertebrates  and sending retinotopically organized projections to the tectum  , as well as a photosensory pineal organ  . Researchers have debated the rod or cone nature of lamprey retinal photoreceptors since the middle of the 19th century  to ascertain whether , in vertebrates , cones pre-dated rods or vice versa . Current molecular genetic evidence indicates that modern rods evolved from an ancestral cone  , implying that vision in near darkness is a relatively recent acquisition  and causing the point of contention to become that of the timing of rod evolutionary emergence . This advance must have occurred  after the appearance of the precursor of rhodopsin and of other rod-specific phototransduction proteins isoforms and  before the initial diversification of extant jawed vertebrates  endowed with modern rods . Phylogenetic analysis of visual opsins constrains time bound i to have occurred anywhere between the divergence of ascidians  and that of the lamprey line  : the sea squirt Ciona intestinalis has only one jawed vertebrate-related visual opsin  , while some lamprey species have all five major classes  including an Rh1 rhodopsin ortholog   . Furthermore , analysis of the whole sea lamprey genome suggests that the lamprey line diverged from the main vertebrate line shortly after 2R  . Therefore , unveiling the functional properties of lamprey photoreceptors may shed light on the evolution of dim-light vision in the critical time period following 2R  . The two types of photoreceptors in the retina of Northern hemisphere lampreys have light-absorbing outer segments arranged in adjacent tiers  : those of short photoreceptors  lie in an inner tier , while those of long photoreceptors  lie in an outer tier , next to the pigment epithelium . This nomenclature is based on the entire length of the photoreceptors that of the outer segments showing instead the reverse pattern . Importantly , SPs express an Rh1 rhodopsin ortholog  and some of their phototransduction protein isoforms examined thus far clade with those of rods  , but they also have molecular and morphological features of cones including outer segment discs that appear continuous with the plasma membrane  . Thus , while they retain archaic features of a cone progenitor , SPs are homologues of jawed vertebrate rods  . LPs , on the other hand , express an LWS red cone opsin and have a molecular fingerprint consistent with cones  . Here , we examined single lamprey photoreceptors at the levels of their inner and outer segments using two different recording techniques that provide complementary information , to establish the extent to which SPs operate like jawed vertebrate rods . We found multiple striking similarities that , taken together , argue against convergent evolution , implying that middle Cambrian vertebrates possessed functionally advanced rod precursors . Signal processing in the inner segment of lamprey photoreceptors resembles that found in jawed vertebrates . Image of a live retinal slice showing the layered organization of lamprey photoreceptors: short photoreceptors  in an inner tier and long photoreceptors  in an outer tier . Photoreceptors express the Ih current: membrane current of a SP in response to hyperpolarizing voltage clamp steps  in control and during superfusion of the Ih blocker ZD7288 at 100 µM . Photovoltage responses reveal that SPs feed their signals into LPs . Average responses to 520-nm flashes of a SP  and a LP  . Response amplitudes to 520-nm  and 590-nm flashes  of a SP and a LP . Action spectra templates for SPs and LPs are shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Predicted action spectra of SPs and LPs and their relative sensitivities at 520 and 590 nm . 11-cis-Retinal  based visual pigment templates  centered at the absorption peaks of SP  and LP outer segments  determined previously by microspectrophotometry  . 9-cis-Retinal  based visual pigment template for regenerated LPs  , obtained from that of red salamander cones  by:  assuming full replacement of the native chromophore and  introducing a slight hypsochromic shift  so as to match our experimentally determined sensitivities at 520 and 590 nm . First , we made perforated patch-clamp recordings from photoreceptor inner segments and found that the dark membrane potential was of −43 . 7 mV for SPs  and −45 . 1 mV for LPs   ; these values are in line with those of jawed vertebrate rods and cones  . The membrane time constants , obtained by fitting single exponentials to the early rise of a current step response , were 31 . 3 ms   , equivalent to low-pass filtering with cut-off frequencies of ∼5 Hz for SPs and ∼12 Hz for LPs . Thus , the electrical properties of the inner segments of SPs seem adapted to process slower photocurrent changes than those of LPs . Both SPs  and LPs  expressed the hyperpolarization-activated current Ih , similarly to rods and cones  ; Ih was abolished by ZD7288  . Electrophysiological parameters of SPs and LPs listed in the order they appear in the main textDOI: http://dx . 1  e–Integration time , dim flash  ; control0 . 05  f––Integration time , dim flash  ; regenerated0 . 02  h–i1/2  ; regenerated63 ± 11  i777 ± 167  i–Dim-flash sensitivity  ; regenerated0 . 17  ––Dim-flash sensitivity  ; regenerated3 . 001; Vdark: dark membrane potential; IRmembrane: input resistance; τmembrane: membrane time constant; i1/2: half-maximal response flash strength; TTP: time-to-peak; τrec: decay time constant; a: absolute single photon response; a%: fractional single photon response; SNR: signal-to-noise ratio; Idark: dark current; SPs: short photoreceptors; LPs: long photoreceptors . Light stimulation evoked a hyperpolarization in both photoreceptors  , with peak changes in membrane potential of up to 30 mV  and 32 mV  in response to saturating flashes . The amplitudes of the flash responses from SPs were described by exponential saturation functions  . 9  for the sensitivities of these photoreceptors at 520 nm and 590 nm . 6 predicted by an 11A1 visual pigment template  having a λmax of 517 nm  , the absorbance maximum of SP outer segments found with microspectrophotometry  , and is thus consistent with the expression of an Rh1 visual pigment . For LPs , the flash responses displayed two components  : the first component had kinetics , sensitivity , and spectral preference similar to SPs; the second component had faster kinetics , lower sensitivity , and a ratio of sensitivities at 520 nm and 590 nm of 1 . 1 predicted by an 11A1 template  , whose λmax is set at 555 nm  , the absorbance maximum of LP outer segments  , consistent with their expression of an LWS pigment . It is likely that the first component of the flash response from LPs represents input from SPs , probably mediated by gap junctions; this arrangement would represent in lamprey retina an arrangement homologous to rod-cone coupling in jawed vertebrates  . In support of this interpretation , we observed with Lucifer Yellow injection thin telodendria emanating from the synaptic pole of the photoreceptors and extending laterally into the inner plexiform layer  : the only known function of these processes in jawed vertebrates is that of forming inter-photoreceptor junctional contacts  . Lamprey photoreceptors extend telodendrial processes . An example of a lucifer yellow stain of a live SP showing two thin processes  extending laterally from the synaptic pole into the outer plexiform layer . 005 During their spawning run , lampreys do not feed and rely exclusively on stored reserves for several months , leading to a vitamin A deficiency  that could hinder visual pigment regeneration . We thus wondered whether some of the visual pigment in our preparations might have been in a bleached state  . Clarifying this point was a crucial prerequisite to our subsequent assessment of single photon processing by SPs , for reasons explained in the rest of this paragraph . In jawed vertebrates , bleached rod and cone opsins constitutively activate the phototransductive cascade at a very low rate  . Due to this property in rods , in which pigment regeneration is much slower than in cones , bleaches of even a small fraction of the total pigment pool caused by bright light lead to a significant and long-lasting desensitization , which is much larger than what is expected from the simple decrease in light-sensitive visual pigment molecules  . Bleaching desensitization thus leads to a reduction in phototransduction gain , and therefore , in the single photon response amplitude . Assuming that lamprey opsins behave similarly to those of jawed vertebrates , the possible presence of bleached visual pigment in our experiments  raises the possibility that SPs were desensitized relative to their full potential . To examine whether this was the case , we regenerated any bleached visual pigment molecules by superfusing the retinal slices in the recording chamber with the artificial analog 9-cis-Retinal  . The sensitivity at 520 nm of two SPs , recorded both in control and during delivery of 9-cis-Retinal , increased by 2 . Moreover , sensitivity was higher  in regenerated than in control SPs: half-maximal response at 520 nm evoked with flashes  of 63 ± 11 photons·µm−2  vs 149 ± 25 photons·µm−2  . Thus , some of the visual pigment molecules in SP outer segments were indeed bleached . The ratio of sensitivities at 520 and 590 nm did not differ significantly  between regenerated and control SPs: 5 . To test whether such bleaching was associated to desensitization , we examined dim-flash integration time  . 6-fold after superfusion with 9-cis-Retinal and the same parameter was significantly higher  in regenerated than in control SPs  : 0 . These results strongly suggest that SPs were in a state of bleaching desensitization . Visual pigment regeneration reveals the full sensitivity of photoreceptors in the upstream migrating river lamprey . Photovoltage response amplitudes to 520-nm flashes before  and after visual pigment regeneration with 9-cis-Retinal  of a SP . Normalized-averaged-normalized dim-flash photovoltage responses in control  and regenerated SPs  , highlighting the difference in integration time . These records were obtained as follows:  the average dim-flash response of each SP was normalized to its peak amplitude  ,  normalized responses were averaged across cells ,  the final average was normalized to its peak . Photovoltage response amplitudes to 520-nm flashes before  and after visual pigment regeneration with 9-cis-Retinal  of a LP . Responses to 590-nm flashes are also shown  . In one LP , the sensitivity at 520 nm increased by 22-fold after superfusion with 9-cis-Retinal  . Moreover , sensitivity was much higher  in regenerated than in control LPs: half-maximal response at 520 nm evoked with flashes  of 2385 ± 513 photons·µm−2  vs 1 . As expected for the incorporation of 9-cis-Retinal in a significant fraction of the LP visual pigment pool  , this increase in sensitivity was associated with a marked hypsochromic shift . 7 in the single LP treated with 9-cis-Retinal  and was significantly higher  in regenerated than in control LPs: 1 . To examine the properties of lamprey photoreceptors under fully dark-adapted conditions , all subsequent experiments were made on retinas pretreated with 9-cis-Retinal . After pigment regeneration , the photovoltage responses of SPs , recorded with patch clamp , remained markedly slower than those of LPs  . To characterize the photoreceptors' kinetics , for each recorded cell we plotted time-to-peak  and decay time constant  as a function of flash strength normalized to its half-maximal value   . From linear fits to the data , we estimated the values of these parameters at i1/2: for SPs , the TTP was 0 . Therefore , when compared at flash strengths eliciting responses of similar fractional amplitude , SPs were indeed slower than LPs . Importantly , while the estimates of TTP and τrec in LPs may have been influenced to some degree by the signals that are fed to them from SPs  , the latter would have acted to reduce  the differences in kinetics between the two photoreceptors . SPs are markedly slower than LPs . Average responses to 520-nm flashes of a SP  and a LP  , both recorded with patch clamp after visual pigment regeneration with 9-cis-Retinal . Plots of time-to-peak  and decay time constant  vs flash strength , normalized to its half-maximal value i1/2 , in regenerated SPs  and LPs  . 007 To compare the intrinsic light sensitivity of regenerated SPs and LPs , we first considered whether we should correct their half-maximal flash strengths  measured at 520 nm for:  the position of the peaks of their action spectra  with respect to the stimulus wavelength and  the smaller quantum efficiency of pigment bound to 9-cis-Retinal  . For SPs , we made the conservative assumption that they incorporated only a negligible amount of 9-cis-Retinal , as suggested by their limited increase in sensitivity following regeneration combined with their expression of bleaching desensitization  . This implied that our 520-nm flashes essentially coincided with λmax  and that no correction was necessary for their i1/2 of 63 ± 11 photons·µm−2  . Given the conservative nature of the above assumption , this value provides a lower bound for the maximal sensitivity of fully dark-adapted SPs . For LPs , we made the equally conservative assumption that their entire visual pigment pool was replaced with 9-cis-Retinal . Taking into account the off-peak position of our flashes  relative to the λmax of this action spectrum  and the smaller quantum efficiency of regenerated pigment , the corrected i1/2 of LPs was 777 ± 167 photons·µm−2  . Given the conservative initial assumption , this value provides an upper bound for the maximal sensitivity of fully dark-adapted LPs . The i1/2 of LPs was much higher than that of SPs  . Note that signals feeding from SPs into LPs would have acted to reduce  the differences in sensitivity between the two photoreceptors , leaving our conclusions unchanged . A crucial functional measure of the position of lamprey SPs with respect to the evolutionary transition from an ancestral cone to the modern rod is their performance in amplifying single photons  . Regenerated SPs were highly sensitive , with absolute and fractional dim-flash sensitivities in patch clamp of 0 . We obtained a first estimate of their fractional single photon response of 2 . 5%·R* −1  by dividing the fractional dim-flash sensitivity with a theoretical effective collecting area of 1 . A search for quantal responses using the patch-clamp technique proved inconclusive , as also observed in similar recordings of photoreceptors from those jawed vertebrates having extensively coupled rods  . We thus performed suction electrode photocurrent recordings from the conical outer segments of SPs , in retinae pretreated with 9-cis-Retinal  : this recording technique only measures the current flowing through the membrane enclosed in the pipette and is thus ideally suited to examine phototransduction in a given photoreceptor without an appreciable contribution of its electrically coupled neighbors  . Under these conditions , responses to repeated delivery of dim flashes were highly variable in amplitude  . We estimated the absolute amplitude of the single photon response  to be 0 . The normalized time-dependent squared mean responses and variance increases overlapped   , consistent with the single photon responses being governed by Poisson statistics . The fractional amplitude of the single photon response  , determined for each SP on the basis of its maximal response to a single saturating flash delivered prior to the dim flash trains , was 2 . Lastly , the signal-to-noise ratio  , determined for each SP as the ratio of a over the standard deviation of the biological component of dark noise measured between consecutive dim flashes  , was 1 . Importantly , the values of a , a% , and SNR in SPs are within the range reported for jawed vertebrate rods  . In these experiments , we:  recorded only from intact outer segments  ,  observed similar dark currents  with patch clamp  and suction electrodes  , and  measured similar collecting areas  to theoretical prediction  . From this , it is highly likely that we had complete suction of the outer segment , and as such , we could make reliable estimates of a% and SNR . Suction electrode recordings of SP photocurrents in the single photon regime . Samples of dim-flash response trains recorded from the outer segments of 4 SPs  . Single photon response analysis from one SP  , showing the mean response μ  , time-dependent variance σ2  , normalized squared mean response norm μ2  and variance norm σ2  . Dark current records were taken from the last 2 s preceding each flash and where baselined in the first 1 . Lamprey SP single photon response parameters in the context of those of jawed vertebrate rods . River lamprey: this study; Jawed vertebrates: previous studies . Absolute amplitude of the single photon response  . Fractional amplitude of the single photon response  . Data points shown in the figure were obtained with suction pipette recordings of photoreceptor outer segments . 009 The single photon response analysis made with suction pipettes allowed us to estimate an amplification constant of phototransduction  in lamprey SPs of 0 . 09 s−2 at 9–11°C  , which lies between that of the large amphibian rods at room temperature  and that of small mammalian rods at body temperature   . Taken together , the high-amplification constant and relatively long integration time are key contributors to SPs' single photon performance . We examined lamprey SPs and LPs and found that their general properties closely match those of jawed vertebrate rods and cones: dark membrane potentials of around −45 mV , hyperpolarizing responses of up to 30 mV upon illumination , and the expression of a prominent hyperpolarization-activated Ih current are all typical traits of jawed vertebrate photoreceptors and must therefore have been in place already by the middle Cambrian . A similar conclusion can be made for bleaching adaptation , which we confirmed to be present in SPs . In jawed vertebrates , this phenomenon is the result of a very low-constitutive activity of free opsin and occurs in both rods and cones exposed to bleaching lights  . To assess whether SPs , the phylogenetic homologues of rods  , also operate like rods , we focused on multiple properties both at the level of single photon detection in the outer segment and of downstream signal processing in the inner segment . The rationale behind this approach is that , even if individual functional parameters of SPs and rods could have evolved independently towards a common present state  , this becomes quite unlikely if multiple common features are observed . We find that SPs are exquisitely sensitive to light and feed their signals to the less sensitive but intrinsically faster LPs , similarly to the way rods feed their signals to cones via gap junctions in jawed vertebrates  . The likely anatomical substrate of this signal crossover is represented by the thin telodendrial processes that we observed to extend laterally from the synaptic pole of the photoreceptors . Telodendria are ubiquitous in jawed vertebrates and their only known function is to form gap junctional contacts with nearby photoreceptors  . While in mammals these processes are known to extend only from cone pedicles , in cold-blooded vertebrates they are also formed by rods  . Since rod-cone coupling is thought to provide a secondary route for rod signals when the high-gain output synapse of rods is saturated  , the question arises of whether lamprey SPs have properties of synaptic transmission similar to those of rods and a dedicated postsynaptic circuitry for scotopic signaling . Furthermore , in mammalian photoreceptors , the Ih current has been proposed to assist rod-cone signaling via gap junctions  , a role it could also play in the lamprey retina given the presence of telodendria and SP–LP signal flow . The functional similarities between lamprey SPs and jawed vertebrate rods discussed above , extend to the efficient processing in the single photon regime . With regards to scotopic performance , we found that dark-adapted SPs approach the efficiency of jawed vertebrate rods , both in terms of absolute and fractional single photon response and of its SNR . Here , it is important to note that while the fractional single photon response a% and the SNR are potentially subject to overestimation due to the fact that their denominators  appear smaller if the outer segment is damaged or is not fully within the recording pipette  , this issue does not exist when estimating the absolute amplitude a . Recent evidence indicates that the lamprey line diverged soon after  the occurrence of two rounds of whole-genome duplication in stem vertebrates   , which led to the diversification of the ancestral visual opsin and phototransduction protein repertoire  . Therefore , dim-light vision appears to have been acquired rapidly once a dedicated set of genes became available for specializing a type of cone into the rod  . However , our data provide compelling support for the view that the evolution of the modern rod was already well under way at the time of divergence of the two branches:  the similarities between SPs and rods are multiple and extend from phototransduction to downstream processing ,  the photoreceptors specialized for scotopic vision in lampreys and in jawed vertebrates derive from one and the same precursor  ,  some of the phototransduction protein isoforms examined thus far in SPs clade with those of rods . This newly evolved ability to operate in dim light would have provided a significant advantage to early vertebrates faced with intense competition in a rapidly evolving ecological landscape  . In coincidence with the submission of the present work , a study on the photoreceptors of a different species of lamprey was published  , based on suction electrode recordings from outer segments . Although our study examines a broader range of photoreceptor properties , with both patch-clamp and suction electrode recordings , the two studies converge on the positive response to single photons . The inner segments of SPs and LPs lying close to the slice surface  were visually targeted with 5–6 MOhm pipettes pulled with a P-97  from borosilicate glass capillaries  and filled with a solution containing  90 Kaspartate , 20 K2SO4 , 15 KCl , 10 NaCl , 5 K2Pipes , as well as 0 . Based on an analysis of the liquid junction and Donnan potentials when using this solution and recording photoreceptors  , we report uncorrected values of membrane potential . The outer segment current of intact SPs lying close to the slice surface  was recorded with suction electrodes  . The photon flux density reaching the photoreceptors was derived from the measured power density and was likely to be overestimated to varying degrees across recorded cells due to reflection at the air–water interface and absorption by the surrounding tissue . In patch-clamp recordings , outer segments were generally , but not strictly , oriented at right angles with respect to the direction of incident light . Where specified , any bleached visual pigment was regenerated with the artificial chromophore analog 9-cis-Retinal . The effective collecting area of SPs was estimated according to the approximate relation  :  Ac=2 . 303·V·f·α·Qisom , where V is the volume of their truncated conical outer segments , estimated at 102 µm3 from mean values of length  , basal diameter  , and apical diameter  measured in optical images acquired from live slices; f is a factor accounting for the dichroism of native opsin  ; α is the specific axial pigment density at the maximum absorption wavelength , measured  in lamprey SPs at 0 . 015 µm−1 , a value similar to that of lower vertebrate rods containing rhodopsin and/or porphyropsin  ; Qisom is the quantum efficiency of photoisomerization , assumed to have the rhodopsin value of 0 . Note that any bleached visual pigment regenerated with 9-cis-Retinal would have the somewhat different absorption spectrum and quantum efficiency of isorhodopsin  ; however , this contribution was neglected since the twofold–threefold increase in sensitivity displayed by SPs after delivery of 9-cis-Retinal could result from the regeneration of a small fraction of bleached pigment due to the phenomenon of bleaching desensitization  . Integration time was defined as the integral of the dim-flash response divided by its peak amplitude . Decay time constant  was estimated by fitting a single exponential to the second half of the flash response recovery phase  . Exclusively for presentation purposes , the electrophysiological records shown in the figures were conditioned as follows:  current-clamp patch recordings were ‘box car’ filtered with a running window of 20 ms ,  voltage-clamp suction pipette recordings were detrended  to remove slow fluctuations in the baseline current and digitally low-pass filtered at 2 Hz . "
"The mammalian genome is punctuated by CpG islands  , which differ sharply from the bulk genome by being rich in G + C and the dinucleotide CpG . CGIs often include transcription initiation sites and display ‘active’ histone marks , notably histone H3 lysine 4 methylation . In embryonic stem cells  some CGIs adopt a ‘bivalent’ chromatin state bearing simultaneous ‘active’ and ‘inactive’ chromatin marks . To determine whether CGI chromatin is developmentally programmed at specific genes or is imposed by shared features of CGI DNA , we integrated artificial CGI-like DNA sequences into the ESC genome . We found that bivalency is the default chromatin structure for CpG-rich , G + C-rich DNA . A high CpG density alone is not sufficient for this effect , as A + T-rich sequence settings invariably provoke de novo DNA methylation leading to loss of CGI signature chromatin . We conclude that both CpG-richness and G + C-richness are required for induction of signature chromatin structures at CGIs . CpG islands  are stretches of atypical genomic DNA sequences that mark most gene promoters  . Though individually unique in nucleotide sequence , mammalian CGIs share two features that often correlate but can vary independently: a G + C-rich base composition  and high density of the dinucleotide CpG  . Whereas bulk genomic DNA is globally methylated , CGIs associated with promoters invariably lack DNA methylation . It has been proposed that CGIs function as generic platforms for gene regulation , probably via proteins that bind to CpG and influence chromatin modification  . This hypothesis has gained credence due to accumulating evidence that enrichment or depletion of specific chromatin marks at CGIs is linked to proteins that bind to unmethylated CpG . So far , all such proteins possess CXXC zinc finger domains that bind specifically to the CpG dyad in duplex DNA  . Cfp1 , for example , is a CXXC domain-containing component of the Set1/COMPASS complex  , which generates H3K4 methylation , a signature chromatin mark at non-methylated CGIs  . Accordingly , Cfp1 is concentrated at CGIs as determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation  and its absence is associated with reduced H3K4 methylation at many CGIs  . The H3K4 methyltransferases Mll1 and Mll2 are also CXXC proteins and each is found at CGIs in mouse embryonic stem cells  as determined by ChIP-Seq  . Kdm2a is an H3K36 demethylase that contributes to depletion of H3K36me at CGI promoters  , whereas Kdm2b facilitates recruitment of the PRC1 complex to transcriptionally silent CGIs  . Previous studies have shown that CGI-like DNA sequences can impose an altered chromatin state in ESCs . Promoter-less CGI-like DNA sequences of invertebrate origin in mouse ES cells were initially shown to cause local enrichment of trimethylation of lysine 4 of histone H3  and to recruit the CpG binding protein Cfp1  . Similar experiments using G + C-rich DNA derived from bacteria created chromatin marked by both H3K27me3 and H3K4me3  . The coincidence of these two marks in so-called ‘bivalent’ chromatin is thought to be a feature of genes that are poised to become either active or silent during early development  . Many native CGIs in ESCs adopt a ‘bivalent’ chromatin structure when transcriptionally silent . Despite evidence that CXXC proteins play a role at CGIs , the hypothesis that CpG density is the critical determinant of CGI function has not been directly tested . Here we vary the DNA sequence composition of artificial promoter-less CGIs to assess the relative importance of G + C-richness and high CpG density . Our assay relies upon chromosomal integration of artificial CGI-like sequences into the genome of ESCs . We show that a bivalent chromatin configuration and absence of DNA methylation represent the default state of biologically inert CGI-like DNA sequences . While a high CpG density is essential , it is not sufficient to guarantee the bivalent chromatin structure , as CpG-rich DNA sequences with a G + C-poor average base composition do not acquire this chromatin signature . In fact A + T-rich , G + C poor insertions with a CpG frequency matching that of CGIs consistently become DNA methylated in ESCs , although the bivalent configuration can be restored if the dominant DNA methylation is removed . Our findings demonstrate that CpG-richness is essential for the formation of bivalent chromatin , whereas G + C-richness is required to exclude DNA methylation , which when present is dominant over the other chromatin marks . Comparison between CGIs and an equivalent number of sequences from the bulk genome shows that both CpG frequency and G + C richness are distinct in CGIs compared with bulk genomic DNA of mouse  . A previous study showed that bacterial DNA with CGI-like features organised bivalent chromatin in ESCs  . In order to verify and extend this result we introduced CGI-like DNA sequences of ∼1000 nucleotide pairs  into a bacterial artificial chromosome  containing a human ‘gene desert’ using recombineering  . A computer-generated CGI-like sequence  was designed with a CpG frequency of one per ∼10 base pairs and a base composition of 65% G + C  . A second CGI-like sequence  was of prokaryotic origin , being derived from a promoter-less bacterial puromycin gene adjacent to codon-optimised green fluorescent protein coding sequence  . All constructs lack a promoter , allowing us to focus on the interaction between DNA sequence and chromatin modification without the complicating involvement of transcription . The gene desert regions flanking CGI-like sequences are intended to insulate against effects of the genomic and chromatin environment at different BAC integrations sites . A novel bivalent chromatin domain is formed at promoter-less artificial CGI-like sequences integrated within a gene desert in mouse ESCs . CpG frequency and G + C content of CGIs in the mouse genome  and an equivalent number of equal-sized  random fragments of bulk genomic DNA  . Map of human gene desert 2  showing the integration site of the Artificial CGI-like construct  . ChIP control amplicons are derived from the TSS of the active genes Sox2  and GAPDH  ; the TSS of bivalent gene Hoxc8  and an inconspicuous negative control region on mouse chromosome 15  . In the map above , blue strokes show CpGs in the CGI-like insert and the clear box indicates the bisulfite amplicon . Table showing properties of constructs used in these studies , including length , base composition and CpG frequency  of all tested constructs . Note that the o/e ratio takes the overall G + C content into account and therefore the High CpG/ Low G + C sequences have a high o/e ratio . Bivalent chromatin at artificial CGI-like sequences in mouse ESCs . A linearized plasmid containing the CGI like sequence , a selection cassette flanked by FRT sites , a single LoxP site and 5′ and 3′ homology regions were integrated into a human gene desert within a BAC via recombineering . Selected clones were used for analysis of chromatin modification and DNA methylation . Diagram above shows the CGI like sequence PuroGFP integrated into a human gene desert 1  and the position of primer pairs used for ChIP  . Diagram above indicates the mouse ß-globin locus showing the integration site of the Artificial CGI 2 construct . Bisulfite sequencing of the Artificial CGI 2 construct . In the map above , blue strokes show CpGs in the CGI-like insert and the clear box indicates the bisulfite amplicon . Sequence profiles of CGI-like constructs flanked on either side by 1 kb of human gene desert . 006 Three independently transfected stable ESC lines with low copy number random integrations of the BAC containing Artificial CGI 1 and one cell line with the PuroGFP CGI were selected for ChIP analysis  . The CGI-like insertions consistently generated a bivalent chromatin structure marked by H3K4me3 and H3K27me3  . We refer to DNA sequence domains as bivalent using the convention that H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 marks coincide at a single integration site . The levels of H3K4me3 at the artificial CGI were similar to those at the endogenous bivalent gene Hoxc8 , whereas H3K4me3 levels in the DNA sequences flanking the CGI were unaffected by the insertion . H3K27me3 was less discrete , spreading variably into flanking regions of the human BAC , but Suz12 , a component of the PRC2 complex that deposits the H3K27me3 mark , was tightly localised to the CGI-like sequence in each case . We tested an unrelated artificial CGI-like sequence with similar overall sequence properties  , this time integrated at a recombination cassette within the beta globin locus of mouse ESCs  . Independent replicate stable transformant cell lines again showed consistent presence of a bivalent chromatin structure  . The DNA methylation status of the integrated artificial CGIs was investigated by bisulfite sequencing . DNA methylation levels at CGI-like sequences inserted into the gene desert  were consistently somewhat higher than in the cassette exchange system  and were somewhat higher than an endogenous control CGI in the same DNA samples  . To test whether these promoter-less artificial DNA sequences were transcriptionally inert , we performed ChIP with antibodies recognising three differentially phosphorylated forms of RNA polymerase II in replicate cell lines . In summary , data derived from three distinct promoter-less CGI-like sequences indicate that bivalent chromatin is the default state for transcriptionally inert CGI-like DNA in ESCs . H3K4me3 at a promoter-less artificial CGI forms independently of Cfp1 and RNA polymerase II . Map of gene desert 2 with integrated Artificial CGI-like construct labeled as in Figure 1B . Mouse ES cells expressing GFP-tagged Cfp1 were transfected with Artificial CGI construct and bound Cpf1 was assayed by ChIP with anti-GFP antibodies in three independent cell lines  . Representative anti-H3K3me3 ChIP for three independent Cfp1−/− mouse ES cells transfected with the Artificial CGI construct  . H3K4me3 at an artificial CGI independent of Cfp1 and RNA polymerase II . Scheme above shows gene desert 2  with integration site of the Artificial CGI-like construct  . Shaded bar indicates primers spanning the Artificial CGI . 008 We next asked whether the CXXC protein Cfp1 is enriched at the CGI-like sequences . To facilitate detection of Cfp1 , we introduced the BAC containing the artificial CGI into a transgenic cell line expressing a Cfp1-GFP fusion protein  . Having verified that a bivalent domain was formed at the artificial CGI in these cells  , ChIP was performed on three independent cell lines using an anti-GFP antibody . We consistently observed discrete enrichment of Cfp1 at the CGI-like insertion  . To determine whether the formation of a bivalent domain at the inserted artificial CGI-like sequence was dependent on Cfp1 , the artificial CGI was introduced into Cfp1−/− mouse ES cells  and three independent lines were analysed by ChIP . H3K4me3 levels at the artificial CGI were clearly detectable in the Cfp1−/− cells , indicating that Cfp1 is not required for the formation of H3K4me3 levels at the bivalent domain  . To establish the importance of these features for determination of bivalent chromatin , we varied CpG frequency and G + C content in 1000 base pair long artificial DNA sequences  . An artificial CGI with a base composition similar to that of a normal CGI  but with a low density of CpGs , similar to that of the bulk genome  , was designed  . This Low CpG / High G + C sequence failed to create bivalent chromatin as neither H3K4me3 nor H3K27me3 was detected in three independent ESC lines  . Map of gene desert 2 showing the integration site of the Low CpG / High G + C  construct labeled as in Figure 1B . Shaded bar includes primers spanning the Low CpG / High G + C construct . 009 This result raised the possibility that CpG frequency alone determines the chromatin state , with G + C content playing no role . To test this idea , we generated four different artificial DNA sequences that were CpG-rich to the same level as typical CGIs  , but relatively A + T-rich in overall base composition  . Contrary to expectation , none of these insertions generated a focus of bivalent chromatin in multiple independent cell lines  . A potential explanation for this finding came from an analysis of DNA methylation status , which showed that in replicate cell lines the CGIs had all become densely methylated at CpGs  . The striking contrast between the consistent methylation-free status of three separate G + C-rich , CpG-rich integrants and the reproducible dense methylation of four unrelated A + T-rich , CpG-rich sequences of the same length indicates that base composition is a strong determinant of DNA methylation status . A plot of G + C-content against percentage CpG methylation showed a sharp transition between 50 and 60% G + C  . Interestingly , a CGI-like insertion with a base composition of 55% G + C  studied previously  showed an intermediate DNA methylation level , suggesting that it lies on the transition point for triggering de novo methylation  . CpG-rich DNA sequences on an A + T-rich background fail to form bivalent chromatin and reproducibly acquire DNA methylation . Above: Map of gene desert 2 indicating the integration site of the High CpG / Low G + C 1  construct as in Figure 1B . The shaded bar includes primers spanning the High CpG / Low G + C 1 construct . In the map above , blue strokes show CpGs in the CGI-like insert and the clear box indicates the bisulfite amplicon . The High CpG / Low G + C construct was integrated into Dnmt 3a−/− Dnmt 3b−/− double mutant mouse ES cells . Upper right panel shows bisulfite sequence analysis of a cell line containing the High CpG / Low G + C construct in Dnmt 3a/b −/− cells , presented as in panel  . Diagrams depicting the influence of CGI sequence composition on chromatin structure . Upper panel: Sequences with high CpG frequency and high C + G content attract both H3K4 and H3K27 methyltransferase to establish bivalent chromatin domains and they remain unmethylated . Lower panel: A + T-rich DNA fails to form a bivalent chromatin structure , even when the CpG density is high and is consistently subject to de novo methylation . CpG-rich , A + T-rich DNA sequences do not form bivalent chromatin . Above: diagrams  of gene desert 2 with  inserted A + T-rich , CpG-rich construct #2  and  medium-A + T , CpG-rich construct  . Below: representative anti-H3K3me3 and H3K27me3 ChIP normalized to H3 and Suz12 ChIP shown as enrichment over the negative control region  for two independently transfected cell lines for each construct . Scheme showing the mouse ß-globin locus  with integration site of the A + T-rich , CpG rich construct #3  construct . DNA methylation at CpG-rich , A + T-rich DNA sequences blocks bivalent chromatin . Bisulfite sequence analysis of the H-CpG/L-G + C 2 and 3 and H-CpG/M-G + C constructs . Dnmt 3a/3b knockout cells can form bivalent chromatin when transfected with the Artificial CGI 1  . Partial loss of DNA methylation causes increased H3K27me3 at the A + T-rich , CpG-rich CGI 1 , but does not show elevated H3K4me3 . Bisulfite sequencing of the H-CpG/L-G + C 1 after 10 days in medium +2i shows reduced DNA methylation at the inserted DNA . CpG density and CGI length at bivalent CGIs correlate positively with H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 levels in mouse ESCs . Bivalent CGIs identified in published ChIPseq analyses  were divided into four equal bins based on length or CpG density and plotted against levels of H3K4me3 or H3K27me3  . 013 The results indicate that DNA methylation is dominant over both H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 , as in its presence neither chromatin mark is observed at the artificial CGIs . To test this hypothesis , we asked if removal of DNA methylation could restore bivalent chromatin at A + T-rich CpG-rich sequences by using mutant ESCs lacking the de novo DNA methyltransferases Dnmt 3a and Dnmt 3b  , which display severe DNA hypomethylation  . To ensure that histone modifying enzyme activities are not disrupted in the Dnmt 3a/3b double knock out cells , we generated stable cell lines with the artificial CGI-containing BAC and confirmed that a bivalent domain was observed over the insertion  . When the High CpG /High A + T construct was introduced into Dnmt 3a/3b knock out cells it now remained unmethylated , and importantly , bivalent chromatin was detected at the inserted sequence  . This may indicate that A + T-rich DNA is less able to recruit H3K4me3 despite its high CpG density . The dominance of the polycomb-associated H3K27me3 mark at A + T-rich CGIs was also seen when DNA methylation was partially reduced by growing cells for 10 days in 2i medium , which enhances the pluripotent state . In line with previous reports  , we found that the average level of genomic CpG methylation was reduced from ∼95% to ∼55%  . We conclude that while CpG frequency is a key feature of CGIs that determines the signature chromatin marks at CGIs , A + T-richness confers an intrinsic susceptibility to de novo methylation that is dominant over these chromatin modifications  . Our study assessed the role of G + C-richness vs CpG-richness on chromatin structure by experimentally varying these sequence parameters individually in synthetic DNA domains . We searched first for G + C-rich  , CpG deficient  sequences of ≥500 bp in length and identified 1954 examples . None of these coincided with bivalent chromatin in ESCs , in agreement with our results using synthetic DNA . To determine if A + T-rich , CpG-rich sequences also exist naturally in mice , we divided the genome into windows of 100 bp and calculated the G + C content and CpG density of each . To ensure that we selected regions with profiles consistently above the thresholds  rather than short CpG dense regions flanked by AT rich DNA , we subtracted windows with ≥50% GC content or <5 CpGs and searched for blocks of adjoining windows . Uniformly A + T-rich and CpG-rich DNA sequences of this kind were absent in the mouse genome . As A + T-rich regions are consistently DNA methylated , it seems likely that , in the absence of strong selection , the high mutation rate of 5-methylcytosine effectively resists CpG accumulation at these domains over evolutionary time . Our data reinforce the complementary view that the underlying genetic information , independent of nurture or developmental history , plays an important role in setting up CGI chromatin structures . In ESCs at least , each of the major CGI chromatin configurations is informed by DNA sequence . We find that the non-methylated state of CGIs depends on G + C-rich base composition and that both the signature histone marks H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 depend on a high density of the non-methylated CpG dyad . For example , DNA sequence motifs that are recognised by transcription factors strongly influence DNA methylation patterns  and inter-individual variation in other epigenomic features maps to sites of human DNA sequence heterogeneity that are probably causal  . Our data show that even gross features of genomic DNA , such as base composition and the frequency of the 2-base pair sequence CpG , influence the epigenome . Almost all native CGIs in mouse ESCs are non-methylated at the DNA level and coincide with peaks of H3K4me3 , which is often seen as the signature histone mark of CGIs  . About one third of the H3K4me3-marked CGIs in mouse ES cells also carry H3K27me3 and are therefore defined as bivalent  . This has led to the suggestion that polycomb is targeted to G + C-rich or CpG-rich DNA  . It was shown previously that CpG density within the non-methylated CGI fraction as a whole is proportional to the H3K4me3 ChIP-seq signal in both mouse and human cells  . Within a set of 2547 exclusively bivalent promoters from mouse ESCs  , we found that 92% coincide with CGIs . Within this bivalent group , CGI length and CpG density both correlate positively with H3K4me3 and also H3K27me3 levels  . In contrast to typical CGI-like sequences , endogenous G + C-rich , CpG-poor sequences do not display a bivalent chromatin structure . A + T-rich , CpG-rich domains of CGI-like dimensions , however , are effectively absent from the mouse genome . The sum of available data argues strongly that a high abundance of the dinucleotide CpG is a key precondition for the formation of bivalent chromatin . A possible mechanism for recruitment of H3K4me3 involves DNA binding by H3K4 methyltransferases , each of which is associated with a CpG-binding CXXC domain . In Mll1 and Mll2 the DNA binding domains are within the SET-containing protein themselves  , whereas in the case of Set1/COMPASS the CXXC domain resides in the Cfp1 protein component of the multi-subunit complex  . The H3K4me3 component of bivalent CGIs in ESCs depends on Mll2  . Accordingly , we have found that bivalent CGIs form normally in Cfp1−/− ES cells . Since the binding of the CXXC domain to CpG is abolished by methylation of the cytosine moiety  , this may explain why DNA methylation prevents the formation of H3K4me3 even in the presence of high CpG densities . A recent study , however , indicates that the CXXC-domain protein KDM2B can target the PRC1 complex to CGIs and recruit PRC2 secondarily , which would accord with our findings  . Bivalent chromatin has attracted attention due to the proposal that it represents a poised transcriptional state in pluripotent cells  . Whereas silent CGI promoters in ESCs grown in serum usually exhibit a bivalent chromatin structure , this chromatin configuration is significantly reduced in 2i medium , which discourages differentiation and is thought to induce a more pronounced pluripotent state  . Also , cells in which the histone methyltransferase Mll2 is depleted lose H3K4me3 at hitherto bivalent CGIs , but this has no detectable effect on the induction kinetics of the associated genes upon differentiation  . Here we find that bivalency is not confined to poised developmental genes but is a default response to any CpG-rich DNA sequences , even when these are completely artificial . It is apparent from this that the bivalent chromatin structure is not reserved for developmentally important genes , but is a response to general features of local DNA sequence . Bulk mammalian DNA has a base composition of 40% G + C and is globally methylated at CpGs to an average level of ∼65% , whereas G + C-rich CGIs are usually DNA methylation-free . The transfection experiments reported here recapitulate this distinction as G + C-rich CGI-like DNA reproducibly resisted DNA methylation , whereas A + T-rich DNA reliably became densely methylated . CpG density did not affect this susceptibility to methylation , which occurred even when CpG occurred at densities typical of endogenous CGIs . Two simple alternative explanations are possible: either A + T-rich DNA attracts de novo methylation , or G + C-richness excludes it , leaving the bulk genome to be methylated by default . Both Dnmt 3L and Dnmt 3A have the potential to be repelled by H3K4me3  , suggesting that recruitment of H3K4 methyltransferases with CpG-binding CXXC domains protects CGIs against de novo methylation . We find , however , that A + T-rich CpG-rich sequences are reproducibly DNA methylated despite their ability to attract H3K4me3 when DNA methylation is absent . Since these sequences were initially non-methylated when transfected into cells , it may be that H3K4me3 alone is not sufficient to exclude CpG methylation from these regions . This would accord with our previous observation that a moderately G + C-rich artificial CGI when inserted into ES cells was extensively methylated despite the presence of H3K4me3 on non-methylated copies  . Alternatively , A + T-rich CpG-rich sequences may attract H3K4me3 less robustly than G + C-rich CGIs , thereby allowing access to de novo DNA methyltransferases . The CGI phenomenon is conserved throughout the vertebrate lineage , but interestingly the G + C-richness characteristic of mammalian and bird CGIs is not seen in some vertebrate groups  . Fish for example have non-methylated CGI-like sequences at promoters , but these are not markedly G + C-rich compared with the bulk genome  . Since A + T-rich sequences are susceptible to de novo DNA methylation in mammals , it follows that some vertebrate groups may rely on a different set of mechanisms to prevent methylation at G + C-poor CGIs . Custom Perl scripts were used to create random sequences with specific frequencies of CpG , G + C content and length  . Supplementary file 1 lists the CGI-like sequences used in this study . CGI-constructs were introduced into human gene desert BACs by recombineering using the Red/ET system by Gene Bridges  . Cells were electroporated with 200–300 ng of linearized DNA containing the CGI-like sequence , a kanamycin selection cassette and homology arms . The linearized BAC containing the CGI-like constructs and a selection cassette was used for transfection of mESCs . Linearized BAC DNA  containing the CGI-like sequences and a selection cassette flanked by Frt sites was used to transfect 60% confluent mouse ESC growing in a 6-well plate using Lipofectamine LTX Plus  . Artificial CGIs for insertion into the beta-Globin locus via recombination mediated cassette exchange were synthesised  with flanking inverted loxp sites and cloned into pBSIISK+ and electroporated into TC-1 ES cells carrying a Hygromycin/Thymidine Kinase double selection cassette in the beta-Globin locus  . Cells  were pre-selected with hygromycin for 10 days , electroporated with 25 µg L1-artificial CGI-1L construct and 20 µg pCAGGS-Cre and selection for positive clones with 3 µm Ganciclovir was started 2 days after electroporation and continued for 8–10 days . Values for duplicate of triplicate ChIP samples were calculated as %-input and copy number of artificial CGIs was assessed relative to Sox2 qPCR signal . The converted DNA was used for PCR amplification of regions of interest , Supplementary file 2 lists the CGI-like sequences used in this study . "
"In the absence of NIK , development of Vγ5+ dendritic epidermal T cells  was halted in the embryonic thymus , and impaired NIK function caused a selective loss of IL-17 expression by γδ T cells . Using a novel conditional mutant of NIK , we could show in vivo that NIK signaling in thymic epithelial cells is essential for the thymic hardwiring of γδ T cell cytokine production . γδ T cells , together with αβ T cells and B cells , are the only cells in mammals capable of generating diverse antigenic receptors by somatic gene rearrangement , which enables them to specifically recognize and respond to a vast array of antigens . However , while the essential role of αβ T cells and B cells for the induction of long-lasting protective immune responses is undisputed , γδ T cells due to their low abundance in peripheral lymphoid organs have been often ignored by the scientific community  . The second main characteristic of γδ T cells is their ability for rapid production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as INF-γ and IL-17 independent of TCR engagement  . The surface molecule CD27 , which belongs to the tumor necrosis  receptor superfamily has been shown to distinguish IFN-γ-producing from IL-17-producing γδ T cells  , as does the differential expression of the transcription factors T-bet and RORγt and certain chemokine receptors such as CCR6  . Although the genetic diversity of the TCR γδ locus would theoretically allow an even higher number of different TCR specificities than for αβ T cells  , γδ T cells show a remarkable limitation in their TCR variability . Moreover , γδ T cells with a given TCR specificity often home to non-lymphoid organs , where the majority of mature γδ T cells can be found . Also other subsets of γδ T cells , such as Vγ4+ γδ T cells  , which migrate predominantly to the dermis and lung tissue , have been shown to develop only early in ontogeny  . Expression of Skint-1 by medullary thymic epithelial cells   leads to a signaling cascade in developing γδ thymocytes that induces the typical gene expression profile of DETCs , concomitant to their preferential homing to the skin  . Non-canonical NFκB signaling , which requires the NFκB-inducing kinase   is activated by a discrete subset of TNF family members , including CD40L , Lymphotoxin  , BAFF  and RANKL  . Signaling via the non-canonical pathway has been shown to fulfill roles in B cell survival  , activation of T cells  , maturation and function of dendritic cells   as well as the induction of tolerance  , but it has not been studied in the context of γδ T cell biology in detail . Previous work has suggested that signaling via the CD70-CD27 axis  can activate NFκB p52 processing  . Also , LTβR signaling has been implicated in the differentiation program of bulk γδ thymocytes  , and the NFκB family members RelA and RelB were shown to guide the development of IL-17-producing Vγ4+ γδ T cells  . Furthermore , the genesis of invariant NKT cells was claimed to depend on signaling via NIK  . In line with previous studies that were using knockout models of the TNF receptor family member RANKL  we found that NIK-deficient mice showed a drastic loss of DETCs in the epidermis . Of note , in the absence of NIK most of the IL-17 production by splenic and lung-resident γδ T cells was lost , while their ability to express IFN-γ was not affected . Mechanistically , this was accompanied by a loss of Rorc and Sox13 expression in NIK-deficient CD27- γδ T cells , while in turn expression of Tbet and Egr3 was increased . While previous studies reported trans-conditioning of developing γδ T cell precursors by CD4+ thymocytes  , our data suggest that NIK signaling specifically in thymic epithelium is essential for shaping the cytokine profile of the γδ T cell compartment . In line with this , we observed a disturbed pool of DETCs in the epidermis of adult Map3k14-/- mice  , with only 30-–50% of the γδ T cells present expressing the canonical Vγ5+ TCR  . Since DETCs are among the very first T cells to develop in ontogeny and populate the epidermis already prior to birth , we analyzed the epidermis of mouse embryos at day 19 post conception . Whereas there was already a prominent population of Vγ5+ DETCs present in WT controls , DETCs were virtually absent in the skin of NIK-deficient embryos  . Pregating is on live singlets and CD45+ CD11b- cells . Analysis of the epidermal γδ T cell compartment of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- embryos  after pregating on live singlets and CD45+ CD11b- cells . Summary of the frequency of total γδ T cells as well as Vγ5+ cells within the γδ T cell gate . Flow Plots have been pregated on live singlets and CD45+ CD4- cells . Lower panel depicts the summary of the frequency of total γδ thymocytes as well as Vγ5+ cells within the γδ T cell gate in d19 embryonic thymi , and the median fluorescence intensity of the indicated markers . Analysis of the expression level of CD45RB , CD122 , CD24 and CD62L on developing Vγ5+γδ thymocytes isolated from E19 embryonic thymi . Lower panel shows the summary for the frequency of positive cells for CD45RB and CD122 and the median fluorescence intensity of CD24 and CD62L , respectively . Flow Plots have been pregated on live singlets and CD45+ CD4- cells . Right panel shows the summary for the frequency of CD45RB positive cells . 004 The absence of DETCs in the epidermis of Map3k14-/- embryos led us to speculate that NIK-deficient DETC precursors fail to develop in the embryonic thymus . Indeed , these cells were present in NIK-deficient thymi , albeit at reduced numbers and with a consistent reduction in staining intensity of the TCR  . In order to assess the maturation status of the developing Vγ5+ thymocytes , we evaluated the expression level of various molecules that have been associated with normal DETC development , such as CD45RB , CD122 , CD24 and CD62L  . The expected upregulation of CD45RB and CD122 , which is typical for developing DETCs was not found in Map3k14-/- embryos . In turn , the downregulation of CD24 and CD62L which normally coincides with DETC maturation was also reduced  . Taken together , the loss of NIK abrogates normal development of DETC precursors in the embryonic thymus , corroborating previous findings using knockout animals for Tnfrsf11a  . Based on the role of NIK in the formation of the epidermal DETC pool we assessed the contribution of non-canonical NFκB signaling to the development and function of other γδ T cell compartments in more detail . For comparison , throughout our study we included both targeted Map3k14-/- mice  as well as aly/aly animals , which harbor a point mutation in NIK , expressing a dysfunctional protein  . Also , the distribution of the CD27+ and CD27- subsets of γδ T cells was indistinguishable between Map3k14-/- and heterozygous control animals  . In NIK-deficient mice , γδ T cells selectively lose their ability for production of IL-17 . Flow cytometric analysis of the splenic γδ T cell compartment of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- animals after pregating on live singlets and CD45+ CD11b- B220- cells . Analysis of the lung-resident γδ T cell compartment of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- animals after pregating on live singlets and CD45+ CD11b- B220- cells . Flow cytometric analysis of IFN-γ , IL-17 and TNF-α expression by peripheral γδ T cells after PMA/Ionomycin stimulation , isolated from the spleen of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- animals  . Left plots have been pregated on CD45+ CD11b- CD4- live singlets . Summary of the frequency of cytokine producing cells within the γδ T cell compartment . Flow cytometric analysis of IFN-γ and IL-17 expression by lung-resident γδ T cells isolated from the lung of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- animals  . Left plots have been pregated on CD45+ CD11b- CD4- live singlets . Summary of the frequency of cytokine producing cells within the lung-resident γδ T cell compartment . Flow cytometric analysis of IFN-γ and IL-17 expression by dermal γδ T cells isolated from the skin of heterozygous control and Map3k14-/- animals . Right panel depicts the frequency of cytokine producing cells within the dermal γδ T cell compartment . Ratio of Vγ4+ and Vγ6+ cells in the lung-resident IL-17-producing γδ T cell compartment . Flow cytometric analysis of Vγ4+ and Vγ6+ cells within IFN-γ and IL-17 expressing γδ T cells isolated from the lung of heterozygous control  and Map3k14-/- animals  . Left plots have been pregated on CD45+ CD11b- CD3+ TCRγδ+ live singlets . Summary of the frequency of Vγ4+ and Vγ6+ cells within the lung-resident γδ T cell compartment . 006 However , when we assessed the primary function of γδ T cells , which is the rapid production of pro-inflammatory cytokines , we noticed that after in vitro stimulation of bulk peripheral lymphoid γδ T cells their ability to express IL-17 was strongly diminished . In contrast , the frequency of both IFN-γ and TNF-α-producing γδ T cells was similar between Map3k14-/- and control animals  . For lung-resident γδ T cells , which include Vγ6+ γδ T cells as one the most potent sources of IL-17 , we also observed a reduction in the ability of NIK-deficient cells for IL-17 secretion , but this was accompanied by a slight increase in the frequency of IFN-γ production  . The ratio of Vγ4+ to Vγ6+ cells in the remaining fraction of IL-17-producing γδ T cells did not change  . Similarly , for the steady state dermal γδ T cell compartment we observed that in the absence of NIK , γδ T cells were impaired in IL-17 expression  . To reveal the underlying mechanism for the loss of IL-17 in γδ T cells , we analyzed the expression of Rorc and Il23r , which are both necessary for normal IL-17 production  . To this end , we purified CD27- and CD27+ γδ T cells  from Map3k14-/- and heterozygous control animals and analyzed gene expression by qPCR . While in controls , CD27- γδ T cells expressed high levels of Rorc and Il23r , the same molecules were drastically reduced in NIK-deficient CD27- γδ T cells  , which was accompanied by an upregulation of Tbet . While the expression level of both genes was not affected in CD27+ γδ T cells , NIK-deficiency selectively in CD27- γδ T cells led to a loss of Sox13 and a gain of Egr3 expression  . Collectively , these data indicate that NIK signaling is essential for RORγt and as well as Sox13 expression in CD27- γδ T cells , thereby conferring their full potential for production of IL-17 . NIK-deficient CD27- γδ T cells show reduced expression of Rorc and and Sox13 . Gating strategy used for sorting of CD27+ and CD27-γδ T cells . Analysis of the expression level of Rorc , Il23r and Tbet mRNA in sorted CD27+ and CD27- γδ T cells isolated from the spleen of the indicated genotypes . Analysis of the expression level of Sox13 and Egr3 in sorted CD27+ and CD27- splenic γδ T cells isolated from the indicated genotypes . IL17-A and IL17-F expression of dermal γδ T cell on day 6 after Aldara treatment . 007 In order to assess the functional impact of NIK-lesioned γδ T cells , we treated Map3k14-/- animals with Imiquimod , a well established system for the induction of psoriasis-like skin inflammation in mice  . Analysis of the dermal γδ T cell compartment not only revealed reduced numbers of γδ T cells  , but also a significant reduction of both IL-17A and IL-17F expression by γδ T cells  . This suggests that NIK-signaling also in an inflammatory setting is essential for full IL-17 production by γδ T cells , but that other cell types , such as ILCs  can compensate this functional impairment during Aldara induced skin inflammation . While our data and work from others  clearly suggest a non-redundant role of non-canonical NFκB signaling in the development of DETCs , it has so far not been possible to determine whether NFκB signaling occurs in a γδ T cell intrinsic or extrinsic manner . To dissect the contribution of different cellular compartments in vivo , we generated a novel conditional mouse mutant that allows cell-type specific deletion of the Map3k14 gene using the Cre/LoxP system . Map3k14flox/wt animals were generated by gene targeting in embryonic stem  cells , thereby inserting LoxP sites up- and downstream of Exon 4 and 6 of the Map3k14 gene locus , respectively  . To further verify the phenotype of Map3k14del/del mice , we compared the cytokine production of peripheral γδ T cells to WT and Map3k14-/- animals , showing that Map3k14del/del mice phenocopy the full knockout  . Map3k14flox/wt mice have been crossed to Deleter Cre animals for deletion of the Loxp flanked gene locus . Splenic γδ T cells from control , Map3k14-/- and Map3k14del/del mice were assessed for production of IL-17  and IFN-γ  by intracellular cytokine staining . The epidermal γδ T cell compartment of control , Map3k14-/- and Map3k14del/del animals was assessed for the frequency of Vγ5+ DETCs . Lymphocytes isolated from the epidermis of adult control  , Map3k14-/- and Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals were analysed for the presence of Vγ5+ DETCs . Pregating is on live singlets and CD45+ cells . Right panel depicts the summary of the frequency of total γδ T cells as well as Vγ5+ γδ T cells in the epidermis of Control , Map3k14-/- and Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals . Frequency of total γδ T cells in the skin of 12-–13 day old control littermates and Foxn1-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals . 009 As a next step , we assessed whether the DETC defect observed in complete NIK-knockout animals is due to the requirement for NIK signaling in thymic epithelial cells . To specifically delete NIK in medullary thymic epithelial cells  , Map3k14flox/flox mice were crossed to Ccl19-Cre mice , which express Cre solely in lymph node stromal cells and mature medullary thymic epithelial cells  . Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals phenocopied the aberrant DETC development observed in germline Map3k14-/- mice , with a loss of Vγ5 expression by DETCs  . However , we observed some variation in the penetrance of the Ccl19-Cre transgene , with some litters presenting with a phenotype , while others did not , suggesting that the start of Cre expression driven by Ccl19 promotor sharply coincides with the start of DETC development in the embryo . Thus , we decided to utilize an additional strain targeting the thymic epithelium , namely Foxn1-Cre mice in which Cre is under control of the Foxn1 promotor and thus active in all thymic epithelial cells   . Corroborating our findings , Foxn1-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox showed a strong reduction in both frequency and number of skin-resident TCRγδhigh DETCs  . To assess which cellular compartment requires NIK for the formation of IL-17 committed γδ T cells , we first deleted NIK specifically in CD27- γδ T cells using Rorc-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals . Analysis of Fatemap Rorc-Cre+ R26-Stop-flox-YFP mice showed that around 90% of CD27- γδ T cells in the lung expressed yellow fluorescent protein  , indicating a good targeting efficiency of this cellular subset  . However , lung-resident γδ T cells in Rorc-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice expressed IL-17 at levels comparable to wildtype controls  , suggesting that γδ T cell intrinsic signaling is dispensable for the commitment of IL-17-producing γδ T cells . To exclude a potential role of NIK signaling in the CD4+ αβ thymocyte compartment  , we analyzed both peripheral and lung-resident γδ T cells in CD4-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice . Their ability for IL-17 production was comparable to wildtype controls  , demonstrating that also within the αβ thymocyte compartment NIK signaling is dispensable . Conditional deletion of NIK in TECs causes not only a loss of DETCs , but also IL-17-producing γδ T cells . γδ T cells were isolated from the lung of Rorc-Cre+ R26-Stop-flox YFP-mice and assessed for the frequency of YFP+ cells within the CD27-γδ T cell compartment . Lung-resident γδ T cells from adult control , Map3k14-/- and Rorc-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice were assessed for production of IL-17  and IFN-γ  by intracellular cytokine staining . Lung-resident γδ T cells from adult control and CD4-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice were assessed for production of IL-17  and IFN-γ  . Lung-resident as well as splenic γδ T cells from adult control and Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice were assessed for production of IL-17 and IFN-γ . Frequency of IL-17-producing γδ T cells in the lung of 12-–13 day old control littermates and Foxn1-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals , plots have been pregated on live CD45+ singlets , CD3+ TCRγδ+ cells . 010 Based on these results we speculated whether loss of NIK signaling in TECs will impact on the commitment of IL-17-producing γδ T cells . To this end , we analyzed the lung-resident γδ T cell compartment of both Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox and Foxn1-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice . While γδ T cells isolated from the lung of Ccl19-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox animals did not present with any abnormalities in cytokine production , γδ T cells isolated from P13 Foxn1-Cre+ Map3k14flox/flox mice showed significant defects in their ability for IL-17 production both in the spleen and lung  , suggesting that indeed NIK signaling in thymic epithelial cells is needed for imprinting the cytokine commitment onto developing γδ T cells . Nevertheless , in contrast to αβ T cells , the signaling events underlying γδ T cell development and activation are much less understood  . Here , we have shown in vivo that NIK signaling in thymic epithelial cells is essential for the full function of two different γδ T cell populations , namely skin-resident DETCs as well as CD27- IL-17-producing γδ T cells . Contrary to the findings by Eshima and colleagues we could not observe a consistent overall reduction in the number of γδ T cells  , yet we observed functional impairment of CD27- IL-17-producing γδ T cells . This discrepancy might result from two mutually non-exclusive explanations: first , aly/aly mice as well as Map3k14-/- mice due to their complex phenotype  are prone to develop some degree of tissue inflammation over time , which is accompanied by an expansion of both CD4+ and CD8+ cells  and could thereby induce a relative decrease in the proportion of γδ T cells . Using a genetic model that allows the cell-type specific deletion of NIK avoids all these confounding phenotypes of mice in which the gene locus of NIK  has been deleted in the germ-line . Given that NIK is downstream of RANK  , one would expect a similar phenotype in Map3k14-/- animals , but the DETC deficiency that we observed in newborn Map3k14-/- mice was much more pronounced than in Tnfrsf11a-/- animals , suggesting that during DETC development several upstream receptors converge in their signaling to NIK , making it a key pathway during thymic DETC development . Importantly , our data obtained using the conditional NIK-mutant strongly suggests that for normal function of the γδ T cell compartment , NIK signaling does not act γδ cell-intrinsically but in trans by its function in thymic epithelial cells . Conditional deletion of NIK solely in thymic epithelial cells was sufficient to copy the DETC phenotype seen in complete germ-line NIK-knockout animals . The ability of CD27- γδ T cells to rapidly produce IL-17 even after being activated only by cytokines  has been the focus of intense research . Only the neonatal thymic microenvironment appears to have the capacity to imprint a stable cytokine profile to γδ T cells , since the IL-17-producing γδ T cell subsets cannot be reconstituted in adult animals by bone marrow transfer  . However , while this intriguing mechanism  explains the behavior of several γδ T cell subsets , the thymic cues orchestrating this hard-wiring of γδ T cells remain unclear . Our data suggest that NFκB signaling via NIK seems to be dispensable both within CD27- γδ T cells as well as αβ T cells , at least for their ability for expression of pro-inflammatory IL-17 . Of note , deletion of NIK in all thymic epithelial cells using Foxn1-Cre phenocopied the complete NIK-knockout in terms of IL-17 expression by CD27-γδ T cells , while this was not the case using Ccl19-Cre . This would suggest that the instruction of γδ T cells is mediated by early or junctional TECs , or that the timing of Ccl19-Cre-mediated recombination sharply coincides with the expression of the γδ T cell instructing program in TECs . Based on our observation that NIK signaling in the early thymic stroma has a profound and long-lasting effect on the maturation and cytokine profile of developing γδ T cells , further studies are required in order to precisely define the nature of γδ T cell instructing molecules , and which thymic epithelial cell type is required for delivery . While our data does not exclude a role for canonical-NFκB signaling via RelA  , the impact of non-canonical signaling via NIK on the development of DETC precursors and IL-17-producing γδ T cells stems from signaling within the thymic stroma , for which the conditional NIK mutant is a unique tool for further studies . Future work will reveal whether NIK-deficient thymic stroma influences only γδ T cell development , or also the functional profile of the subsequently emerging αβ T cell compartment . Briefly , a targeting vector containing the Loxp-flanked Exons 4-–6 of the Map3k14 loucs was introduced into embryonic stem  cells , ES cell clones with homologous integration were selection and injected into blastocytes  . "
"Long-term flight depends heavily on intensive energy metabolism in animals; however , the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying efficient substrate utilization remain elusive . Here , we report that the adipokinetic hormone/corazonin-related peptide  can facilitate muscle lipid utilization in a famous long-term migratory flighting species , Locusta migratoria . By peptidomic analysis and RNAi screening , we identified brain-derived ACP as a key flight-related neuropeptide . ACP gene expression increased notably upon sustained flight . CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of ACP gene and ACP receptor gene  significantly abated prolonged flight of locusts . Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses further revealed that genes and metabolites involved in fatty acid transport and oxidation were notably downregulated in the flight muscle of ACP mutants . Finally , we demonstrated that a fatty-acid-binding protein  mediated the effects of ACP in regulating muscle lipid metabolism during long-term flight in locusts . Our results elucidated a previously undescribed neuroendocrine mechanism underlying efficient energy utilization associated with long-term flight . Flight is an extraordinary biological trait that has only evolved in several kinds of animals  and is notably effective in searching for food and mates , finding habitats , defending against predators , and adapting to seasonal changes in environment  . Despite these adaptive advantages , flight is one of the most intense and energy-demanding physiological processes , especially for insects that possess long-term flight capacity , such as locusts and butterflies  . Long-term flight is usually defined as sustained flight for seasonal and long-range migration toward a distinct direction in populations  . Metabolic rates in the flight muscle can increase by 20- to 100-fold during flight  . To meet the high energy demands of long-term flight , migratory insects have evolved a suite of adaptive physiological traits  and exhibit highly efficient utilization of energy substrates , such as carbohydrates and lipids , in the flight muscle  . Compared to short-term flight , which exclusively employs carbohydrates as energy substrates , many physiological activities subsequently occur in the flight muscle during long-term flight , including carbohydrate/lipid metabolism transition , fatty acid transport , lipid oxidation , and lipid mobilization in the fat body . However , the mechanisms underlying the highly efficient energy utilization associated with long-term flight have not been elucidated to date . A number of reports have emphasized the central roles played by neuropeptides in coordinating systematic energy metabolism during insect flight  . By affecting energy metabolism either directly or indirectly , neuropeptides participate in a variety of biological events , such as flight , reproduction , diapause , and immune response  . For example , adipokinetic hormone  has been demonstrated to be a conserved regulator of flight-related energy metabolism by promoting glycolysis and lipid mobilization in the fat body in different insect species  . In addition , other neuropeptides are also involved in either lipogenesis or lipolysis and play distinct roles in insect flight  . The migratory locust , Locusta migratoria , which possesses a notable long-term flight capacity , is one of the most destructive agricultural pests  and has been employed as a useful study model for the neurohormonal regulation of flight-related energy metabolism  . The locust displays strong adaption to long-distance flight at both the physiological and morphological levels , exhibiting clear expansion of the energy gene family and high plasticity of muscle metabolism  . In the locust , the patterns of energy metabolism display tissue-specific and time-dependent patterns during tethered flight . Usually , metabolism involved in long-term flight in insects contains two major phases: during the early stage of flight , carbohydrates in flight muscle and hemolymph significantly decrease , and lipid mobilization in the fat body gradually increases thereafter followed by utilization in the flight muscle during the prolonged flight phase  , indicating a clear transition in energy consumption from carbohydrates to lipids during long-term flight . Distinct neuropeptide and neurotransmitter have been demonstrated to modulate lipid mobilization and transport in the fat body  and carbohydrate catabolism in flight muscle at the beginning of flight  , and the relevant regulatory mechanisms have also been uncovered . Nevertheless , neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying energy utilization associated with prolonged flight remain to be explored . In this study , we employed integrated multi-omics studies to screen potential neuropeptides involved in the long-term flight of locusts and elucidated relevant regulatory mechanisms by using the CRISPR/Cas9 method . Finally , we identified a novel flight modulator , the AKH/corazonin-related peptide  , which plays an important role in prolonged flight by facilitating lipid utilization in the flight muscle in locusts . Given that flight is a unique biological trait in adult locusts , we first performed comparative neuropeptidome analysis on the neuroendocrinal tissues brain  and retrocerebral complex  between final instar nymphs  and adult locusts through high-resolution and high-sensitivity MS  to identify neuropeptides possibly related to flight . Compared to 5th-instar nymphs , there were 20 and 18 upregulated neuropeptides in the Br and RC of adult locusts , respectively  , and 10 neuropeptides displayed significantly higher abundance  in either Br or RC of adult locusts  . To validate whether these neuropeptides were closely related to flight activity , we examined the expression levels of the precursor genes of these ten neuropeptides in either Br or RC  after 1 h-sustained flight . Among these genes , three  exhibited clearly increased expression levels , whereas GPB5 displayed decreased expression levels after 1 h- of sustained flight  . To explore whether these four neuropeptides are involved in the modulation of flight performance in locusts , we performed gene knockdown by RNA interference  for each gene in adult locusts . Of these four genes , only the ACP and AKH2 RNAi treatments exhibited significant effects on the flight activity of adult locusts , although the expression levels of all neuropeptide genes were successfully downregulated  . Compared with the control , total flight time and total flight distance decreased by more than 50% after the knockdown of ACP or AKH2  . However , the average flight velocity and maximum flight velocity of the locusts did not significantly change  . AKH family members have been determined to play conserved roles in flight activity by promoting the mobilization of lipids and carbohydrates stored in the fat body of locusts  . Thus , we then validated the regulatory role of ACP in flight activity by injecting synthetic ACP peptide in adult locusts . After peptide injection , the locusts exhibited significantly enhanced total flight time and total flight distance , whereas average and maximum flight velocity were unaffected  . These results confirm the essential regulatory role of ACP peptide in locust flight ability . In addition , the mRNA level of ACP did not significantly change until sustained flight for 1 h , with a 100% increase being observed at this time point  , implying that the ACP peptide plays major roles in facilitating long-term flight in locusts . To further explore the functional roles played by ACP in long-term flight , we generated an ACP mutant line using a CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing system . The ACP-/- locusts were predicted to produce a frameshift precursor unable to give rise to mature ACP peptide . Through immunohistochemistry analysis , we detected strong signals for ACP peptide in the neurons of the par intercerebralis and bilateral forebrain of wild-type locusts   , whereas the fluorescence signal was not observed in the brain of ACP-/- locusts  , which further confirmed the successful construction of ACP mutants of the migratory locust . In comparison with WT locusts , no significant difference in the survival rate of either females or males was observed  , whereas ACP-/- locusts had a larger body size  . Next , we compared the flight performance of ACP mutants and WT locusts during the 60 min sustained tethered flight test . Within the first 15 min , there was no significant difference in total flight distance and total flight time between female ACP mutants and WT locusts . However , for the 60 min tethered flight test , both females and males of ACP mutants displayed significantly shorter flight times and flight distances compared with the WT locusts  . The average flight velocity and maximum flight velocity did not show any changes between ACP mutants and WT locusts in either 15 min or 60 min flight tests  . These results indicated that the neuropeptide ACP was involved in modulating long-term flight in locusts . Phylogenetic analysis showed that the putative locust ACPR was closely related to ACP receptors from other insects but was evolutionarily divergent from its structure-related neuropeptide receptors , AKH receptors and corazonin receptors  . Compared to other organs tested , ACPR was highly expressed in the fat body and flight muscle of adult locusts  . To validate the role of ACPR in regulating long-term flight , we generated an ACPR mutant locust line using the CRISPR/Cas9 system . Using the crossing strategy similar to ACP mutant line construction , we successfully obtained a homozygous ACPR mutant line with a 13 bp deletion  . Compared with the WT locusts , both ACPR female and male mutants showed significantly reduced flight time and flight distance during the 60 min tethered flight test  , although intense immunostaining signal of ACP peptide was detected in the brain of ACPR mutants  . However , no significant changes in average flight velocity and maximum flight velocity were observed between ACPR mutants and WT locusts  . The flight phenotypes caused by ACPR knockout was similar to that observed in ACP mutants , supporting that the essential role of ACP peptide system in modulating long-term flight in locusts . Based on the tissue-specific expression pattern of ACPR , we hypothesized that fat body and flight muscle may be the main tissues targeted by ACP to participate in flight regulation . We then performed comparative transcriptome analysis of the fat body and flight muscle tissues in ACP-/- and WT locusts . The results showed that the number of differentially expressed genes  in flight muscle was greater than that in fat body  . For ACP-/- locusts , there were 212 upregulated and 308 downregulated genes in the flight muscle and 200 upregulated and 118 downregulated genes in the fat body  . The fat body and flight muscle had more tissue-specific DEGs and fewer overlapping DEGs after knockout of the ACP gene  . Several pathways associated with energy metabolism were significantly changed in the flight muscle of ACP-/- locusts ( -Log2  >10 , enriched gene number >15 ) , including oxidation phosphorylation , fatty acid degradation , valine , leucine and isoleucine degradation , cardiac muscle contraction , and fatty acid metabolism . However , only a small number of genes were enriched in the KEGG analysis of the fat body ( -Log2  <10 , gene number <10 )  , indicating that the gene expression profiles of the flight muscle were more strongly affected by ACP knockout . The expression levels of 4 genes responsible for fatty acid transport , 10 genes involved in beta-oxidation , and 19 genes associated with mitochondrial energy metabolism were clearly downregulated in the flight muscle of the ACP-/- locust  . A fatty acid binding protein  , as the most highly expressed gene ( Log10  >4 ) , exhibited an expression decrease of more than 80%  in ACP-/- locusts  . Reduced expression levels of FABP in the flight muscle of ACP-/-locusts were further confirmed by qPCR and western blot analyses  . We also validated decreased mRNA levels of eight other genes involved in fatty acid transport and beta-oxidation in the flight muscle of ACP mutants  . Moreover , we found that the expression levels of genes related to fatty acid transport and oxidation were strongly enhanced in the flight muscle upon ACP peptide injection as well as 1 h-sustained flight of WT locusts  , implying that the ACP peptide may facilitate long-term flight by promoting fatty acid utilization . Given that FABP serves as a primary transporter for fatty acid translocation through the aqueous cytosol to mitochondria , where the beta-oxidation process takes place  , we further assessed whether the change in FABP could affect the expression levels of beta-oxidation-related genes . Taken together , these results indicated that the lipid metabolism pathway was significantly suppressed in the flight muscle of ACP-/- locusts and that FABP may serve as an important molecular target of ACP peptide signaling . Based on the above results , we hypothesized that ACP knockout may affect energy utilization in the flight muscle of locust adults . To verify this possibility , we performed comparative metabolome analysis between ACP-/- and WT flight muscles by ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry  . Locust samples of WT and ACP-/- can be clearly separated by unsupervised principal component analysis  and orthogonal projection to latent structures–discriminant analysis   . The overall metabolite distribution was considerably more intense in WT samples than in ACP-/- samples  , suggesting reduced general metabolic activity in the flight muscle of ACP-/- locusts . Clustering analysis demonstrated that eight medium/long-chain acylcarnitines  were present at significantly reduced levels in the flight muscle of ACP-/- locusts . These data indicated that acyl carnitine-dependent fatty acid transport to the mitochondrion and subsequent metabolism were notably decreased in the flight muscle of ACP mutants . We further evaluated beta-oxidation status between WT and ACP-/- samples by determining the relative amounts of two end metabolites of beta-oxidation , acetyl-CoA and NADH . Relative amounts of acetyl-CoA and NADH in the ACP-/- samples significantly decreased by 77% and 65% , respectively , relative to the levels observed in WT locusts  . Instead , the injection of ACP peptide could significantly enhance the relative amounts of acetyl-CoA and NADH in the flight muscle of WT locusts  . To confirm the changes in energy metabolism in ACP-/- locusts , we also determined the abundance of citric acid , a representative metabolite of the tricarboxylic acid  cycle produced from acetyl-CoA  . Therefore , by combined analysis of gene expressions and metabolite contents , we inferred that the downregulation of genes and metabolites involved in lipid transport and beta-oxidation in the flight muscle contributes to the deteriorated flight ability of ACP-/- mutant  . We further verified whether FABP acts as a key downstream molecular target of ACP to regulate lipid metabolism in flight muscle during the long-term flight of locusts . First , we carried out a 60 min-tethered flight test after performing gene knockdown of FABP in locust adults . Compared to dsGFP-injected locusts , the total flight duration and total flight distance did not change within the first 15 min but were significantly decreased after 60 min of flight in dsFABP-injected locusts  . The average and maximus flight velocity did not change significantly , although a declining tendency was observed after FABP knockdown  . To demonstrate the key role played by FABP in mediating the effect of ACP on lipid metabolism in flight muscle , we performed a molecular rescue experiment by combined peptide injection and gene knockdown in ACP-/- locusts . When ACP peptide was injected in ACP-/- locusts , the expression levels of eight key beta-oxidation genes significantly increased in the flight muscle , whereas this stimulatory effect of ACP injection was remarkably abolished by FABP knockdown  . The knockdown of FABP also alleviated the upregulated amount of acetyl-CoA and NADH in the flight muscle  . In addition , the enhancement of the contents of multiple medium/long-chain acylcarnitines induced by ACP peptide administration also disappeared after FABP gene silencing  . In particular , the impaired prolonged flight performance in ACP-/- locusts , including reductions in both total flight duration and flight distance , could be efficiently recovered by ACP peptide injection . Moreover , this recovered flight activity induced by the ACP peptide was clearly blocked by dsFABP treatments  . Taken together , these results indicated that FABP acts as a key component of ACP signaling , regulating lipid metabolism of the flight muscle during long-term flight in locusts . Our results suggested that the ACP peptide acts as a neuroendocrine hormone to regulate locust flight capacity . In fact , the ACP peptide was initially isolated from the storage lobes of the CC of migratory locusts and was named locust hypertrehalosemic hormone  because of its activity in the induction of hemolymph trehalose levels in cockroaches but not in locusts  . Our results show that the ACP precursor gene in the brain displays strong transcription responses to prolonged flight . The regulatory roles played by ACP in locust flight are clearly supported by tethered flight experiments after knockdown and knockout of its precursor gene , as well as reduced extended flight ability of ACPR mutants . Based on ours and previous finding , ACP mature peptide is abundantly detected in the CC of locusts , indicating that ACP may be synthesized in neurosecretory cells of the brain and transported to the storage lobe of the CC via nervi corporis cardiaci I and/or II  . Thus , the ACP peptide may be involved in locust flight through secretion into the circulation , to modulate distinct physiological activities in target tissues , such as the flight muscle and fat body , where its receptor is expressed . The ACP peptide is an insect structural intermediate of corazonin and AKH hormones , all of which belong to the vertebrate gonadotropin-releasing hormone  family  . ACP and its cognate receptor have been found in various insects , although they are selectively lost in several insect species , such as the fruit fly  , the honey bee  , the pea aphid  , and the body louse   . The role played by ACP in energy metabolism has been suggested in several insect species; for example , this gene has been suggested to regulate hemolymph carbohydrate and lipid levels in Gryllus bimaculatus  and to play a possible role in glycogen hydrolysis in Platypleura capensis  . Our results demonstrate that ACP modulates long-term flight by primarily affecting lipid transport and utilization in the flight muscle of locusts . This finding is strongly supported by a significant decrease in the levels of genes  and metabolites  related to lipid transport and beta-oxidation  in the flight muscle of ACP mutant locusts , as well as the enhanced metabolism-related gene expressions and fatty acid oxidation activity in WT locusts upon ACP peptide administration . Integrating energy metabolism related to long-term flight is a complex and multistep physiological process  . Generally , the initial flight primarily consumes carbohydrates as an energy substrate , whereas subsequent prolonged flight depends largely on highly efficient lipid utilization as an energy supply  . We show that ACP strongly affects lipid transport and oxidation , not carbohydrate metabolism , in the locust . The changes in lipid metabolism in the flight muscle upon ACP manipulations  are closely in line with the alteration of long-term flight performance in the parallel treatments , demonstrating the distinct functional roles played by ACP during long-term flight . Despite the inconsistent effects on beta-oxidation products in the flight muscle upon ACP peptide injection  and sustained flight  , both two treatments could significantly enhance the expressions levels of gene related to lipid utilization in the flight muscle , implying that the ACP peptide may facilitate lipid utilization in response to prolonged flight . The decreased beta-oxidation products may reflect rapid energy utilization in subsequent mitochondrial metabolism during sustained flight . We showed that FABP serves as a key molecular target mediating the regulatory effects of ACP on lipid metabolism during locust long-term flight . Although multiple FABP family members are predicted in the locust genome  , the FABP identified in this study is specifically expressed in the flight muscle of adult locusts with notably high abundance  . The mediating role played by FABP in ACP-controlled flight-related lipid metabolism was further confirmed by knockdown and rescue experiments at the molecular , metabolic , and behavioral levels . The significant role of FABP in prolonged flight has also been reported in the desert locust  , indicating that FABP plays a conserved role in lipid metabolism and long-term flight in locust species . The locust flight muscle is structurally and functionally closely related to the mammalian heart muscle , which also depends mostly on fatty acids to fuel its continuous contractions  . Therefore , FABP is suggested to be equally important for insect flight muscle and mammalian heart muscle . The regulation of FABP expression by ACP during long-term locust flight thus presents a typical case showing the modulation of FABP expression by neuroendocrine factors and may help to elucidate the common molecular mechanisms that participate in the modulation of muscle FABP expression in different species . Further studies are warranted to decipher signaling pathways mediating the regulatory effect of ACP on FABP expression , and the results of this research may help to elucidate the precise metabolic mechanisms regulating high energy-demanding activities . However , few studies have examined the regulatory mechanism underlying flight-related lipid utilization in flight muscle . The transition of substrate utilization from carbohydrates to lipids in the flight muscle has been proposed to be crucial for maintaining long-term flight  . Glycolysis in flight muscle during early-stage flight is controlled by octopamine  . In comparison , lipid mobilization and glycogen hydrolysis in the fat body during prolonged flight are directly modulated by AKH , whose receptor primarily localizes in the fat body  . The expression levels of all three AKH genes strongly increase upon sustained flight in the locust  . However , enhanced expression after sustained flight was observed only for AKH2 in our experiments . A strong reduction in lipid metabolites , such as acylcarnitines , acyl-CoA , NADH , triglycerides , and phosphoglycerides , was observed in the flight muscle of ACP mutants , whereas pyruvic acid generated from glycolysis did not change , suggesting that ACP primarily affects lipid metabolism , rather than glycolysis , in the flight muscle of locusts . We infer that these three flight-related regulators have functional differentiation in either a temporally or spatially dependent manner in the modulation of flight metabolism . A coordinated regulatory network involving AKH , ACP , and octopamine is thus proposed to modulate the cooperation of substrate mobilization , transport , and utilization in different tissues during long-term flight . Here , we also revealed that knockdown of either ACP or AKH2 induced similarly suppressed effects on locust flight performance . Further work is warranted to investigate the potential interaction among these neuroendocrine factors in energy regulation associated with flight activity . Therefore , the increased body size of ACP mutants may be attributed to the continuous metabolism changes associated with trade-off effects between flight activity and body growth . These findings may reflect a common role played by ACP and AKH in governing the energy balance of insects . It will be an interesting work to explore the molecular and metabolic basis for body size determination on the basis of established ACP mutant locust line . In summary , we demonstrate that the ACP peptide acts as a novel neuroendocrine regulator controlling lipid transport and utilization associated with long-term flight in locusts . The ACP-FABP axis involved in long-term flight may serve as an effective molecular target for the prevention of locust plagues and may provide insights into metabolic hemostasis related to sustained locomotion . Tissues including the brain containing only the protocerebrum , deuterocerebrum , and tritocerebrum , thoracic ganglion , retrocerebral complex , fat body , flight muscle , and ovary  of adult locusts at PAE 7 days were dissected and frozen in liquid nitrogen . Flight performance was measured 3 days after the second injection  . The flight activities of individual locusts were measured by using a computer‐aided flight‐mill device modified from previous studies  . One plastic rod forms the upper , free‐turning body of the flight mill that supports the mill arm and serves as a bearing on the pivot pin . Flight was induced by a fan placed above the flight mill  . During the assay , four flight parameters were obtained for each locust , including total flight distance and duration and average flight velocity and maximum flight velocity . Locusts that did not flight in this assay were excluded . For sample preparation of flight treatment , the locusts were forced to sustain flight for 15 , 30 , 45 , and 60 min , respectively . Insects that stopped flying were artificially stimulated to continue flight . Adults of WT and ACP-/- locusts at PAE 1 day were reared under a 14:10 light/dark cycle at 30°C . Differences in the survival rate of females or males between WT and ACP mutant locusts were compared by using the log-rank  test method . Total proteins from flight muscles of WT and ACP-/- locusts were extracted using TRIzol reagent , as previously described  . The flight muscle and fat body tissues were dissected from WT and ACP-/- female locusts under resting state at PAE 7 days . The flight muscle was dissected from WT and ACP-/- female locusts under resting state at PAE 7 days . For metabolite extraction , 20 mg flight muscle was homogenized in 600 μl cold extraction buffer  . For both WT locusts and ACP-/- mutants , commercially synthetic ACP peptide  was injected into the hemolymph of female ACP-/- adults every two days beginning at PAE 1 day . To validate the involvement of FABP in the regulation of energy metabolism and flight activity by ACP peptide , metabolites in muscles and flight performance were measured in ACP-/- locusts injected with ACP peptide or combined with injection of ACP peptide and dsFABP . For ACP peptide and dsFABP dual treatments , dsFABP  was mixed with ACP peptide  and injected into the ACP-/- adults at PAE 3 days . Tissue collection and flight performances of tested insects were both conducted at PAE 7 days . The data that do not meet normal distribution was excluded for the analysis of gene expression , biochemistry assay , and flight activity . "
"Plasma membrane-located transport proteins are key adaptations for obligate intracellular Microsporidia parasites , because they can use them to steal host metabolites the parasites need to grow and replicate . However , despite their importance , the functions and substrate specificities of most Microsporidia transporters are unknown . Using Trachipleistophora hominis , a Microsporidia isolated from an HIV/AIDS patient , as our experimental model , we show that the proteins are ATP and GTP transporters located on the surface of parasites during their intracellular growth and replication . Microsporidia are a highly successful group of strict intracellular eukaryotic parasites that infect a broad range of animal hosts , including humans and economically important species of fish , honeybees , and silkworms  . As a result of this lifestyle , Microsporidia have undergone dramatic genomic and cellular streamlining including the complete loss of biosynthetic pathways for de novo synthesis of purine and pyrimidine nucleotides  . While glycolysis is conserved in some , but not all  Microsporidia , it appears to be mainly active in spores and is not used during intracellular growth and replication  . The loss of indigenous pathways for making ATP and nucleotides means that Microsporidia are now entirely dependent upon the host cells they infect for the energy , cofactors and nucleic acid building blocks that they need to complete their life cycle  . Hence parasite transport proteins must play critical roles in servicing the energetic and metabolic demands imposed by parasite growth and replication , but there is currently little functional data for Microsporidia transporters  . Microsporidia have far fewer  protein-encoding genes than free-living eukaryotes , providing strong evidence that gene loss , particularly for metabolism , is a pervasive feature of their evolution  . We previously identified 10 gene families encoding candidate surface transport proteins that are conserved in all published Microsporidia genomes  . The conserved families include the experimentally characterised nucleotide transporters  that are expressed on the cell surface of intracellular Microsporidia where they can import host purine nucleotides , including ATP , GTP and NAD+  . Intriguingly , the NTT transporters did not transport pyrimidine nucleotides in these experiments  , even though genome analyses suggest that Microsporidia can no longer make these substrates for themselves  . These data suggest that additional transporters must exist to supply Microsporidia with the pyrimidines that they need to grow and replicate . In the present study , we have characterised a family of Microsporidia Major Facilitator Superfamily  transport proteins which were discovered in Nematocida spp . Some of the Nematocida proteins share a Pfam domain  with the NupG transporter of Escherichia coli  , suggesting  that , like NupG , they might be purine and pyrimidine nucleoside transporters , potentially solving the parasite pyrimidine deficit discussed above . To test this hypothesis and to investigate the evolution and role  of these MFS transporters in Microsporidia , we characterised the expression , cellular location and functional characteristics of the homologous proteins from Trachipleistophora hominis  , a model species that can be maintained in cell culture and was originally isolated from an HIV/AIDS patient  . hominis proteins can transport the pyrimidine nucleoside uridine , a known substrate for NupG  , or the pyrimidine nucleotides CTP or UTP , but demonstrate that they do transport the purine nucleotides ATP and GTP . hominis , and potentially other Microsporidia , have at least two distinct transport systems for importing the ATP and GTP from infected host cells , that they need to complete their intracellular lifecycles . We used BlastP to search for sequences related to the Microsporidia conserved protein family # c_456  which contains the Nematocida spp . putative NupG-like nucleoside/H+ symporter  , in the genomes of Microsporidia and their endoparasitic relatives among the Rozellomycota  , including species of Rozella  , Mitosporidium  and Amphiamblys ,  . Recent phylogenetic analyses suggest that Rozellomycota is a paraphyletic group containing a ‘core Microsporidia’ clade  , although others have argued for a different taxonomy with an expanded definition for the Microsporidia  . The core Microsporidia  contains all the species traditionally classified as Microsporidia and which share diagnostic features of the group , including a coiled polar tube , a polaroplast , and the absence of a mitochondrial genome  . Phylogenetic analysis including homologues from prokaryotes and eukaryotes recovered the Microsporidia transporters as a separate clade with homologues from Mitosporidum , Amphiamblys and Rozella  ; providing evidence that the genes were present in the common ancestor of these species . Homologues of the Microsporidia proteins were also detected in other eukaryotes including free-living fungi , Oomycetes , Metazoa , Euglenozoa , Alveolata and Stramenopiles . In particular , the tree topology provides no compelling support for an origin of the Microsporidia genes through LGT from prokaryotes as previously suggested  , and there is no evidence from the tree for a specific relationship to the E . Detailed phylogenetic analysis identified two clades  of Microsporidia proteins  originating from a gene duplication in the common ancestor of the core Microsporidia and some Rozellomycota  . Clade B contains sequences from most Microsporidia apart from the Encephalitozoon/Nosema/Ordospora and Enterocytozoon/Vittaforma lineages , which appear to have lost the genes for these transporters  . The majority of the Microsporidia sequences from clade A contain an indel  between the 7th and 8th transmembrane domains  compared to other proteins   . This type of lineage-specific gene duplication is a feature of the evolution of other Microsporidia transporters  providing the raw material  for functional divergence among paralogues  . hominis sequences and related proteins from Microsporidia and Rozellomycota as search queries in HMMer searches against the Pfam domain database  . The Microsporidia members of clade A , one sequence from Mitosporidium daphniae and four from Rozella allomycis matched the MFS profile PF03825 found in nucleoside/H+ symporters including E . Microsporidia sequences from clade B were characterised by matches to the more general MFS transporter profiles MFS_1  and MFS_2   . The Microsporidia MFS transporters are predicted to have 12 alpha helical TMD , with both termini facing the cytoplasmic side  . coli NupG and XapB nucleoside/H+ symporters  and is consistent with the Microsporidia proteins being functional MFS transporters . In summary , all the Microsporidia proteins are members of the major facilitator family  of transport proteins , but there is no compelling evidence for a particularly close relationship to NupG , or strong indication from trees or bioinformatics concerning their substrates or transport mechanisms . hominis ThMFS1-4 with the following locus tags and uniprot accessions  : in clade A , ThMFS1: THOM_0963 - L7J × 55; in clade B , ThMFS2: THOM_1192 - L7J × 19; ThMFS3: THOM_1681 - L7JVD0; ThMFS4: THOM_3170 - L7JT12 . ThMFS1 mRNA was characterised by a relatively high abundance at the first time point  followed by a gradual decrease at 14 , 22 and 40 hr  and then a dramatic increase after 40 hr during spore formation  and maturation  , when it was the most abundant ThMFS mRNA  . hominis infection of RK13 cells , also identified ThMFS1 as the most abundant transcript among the four ThMFS genes  . By contrast , the expression profile of ThMFS3 mRNA peaked during the early stages of infection at the 3 hr post-infection time-point  , and gradually declined to about 50% of this level by the 22 hr time point  . ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 were both characterised by significantly lower levels of transcript abundance throughout the infection , with mean levels at all time points below 19 TPM . Relative expression profiles for ThMFS1-4  further emphasise the contrasting levels of transcripts for the different transporters during infection . Published RNA-Seq data for other Microsporidia  show similar patterns in the expression of paralogous MFS-like genes  . For example , the Vavraia culicis orthologue of ThMFS1  shows its highest expression during spore formation  and the V . culicis orthologues for ThMFS2 and ThMFS4  have the lowest levels of transcription  . Based upon the branch lengths in the phylogenetic tree  , ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 are evolving much faster than ThMFS3  and ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 also have the highest number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms  among the ThMFS homologues  . Comparing ThMFS and ThNTT  transcript abundance indicated that ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 are characterised by higher levels of expression than ThNTT1-3 throughout the time course of the experiments  . Notably , ThNTT4 is characterised by the highest level of transcripts among all ThMFS and ThNTT transporters , with mean TPM values of >1000 across six different time points of the synchronised infection   . hominis MFS transporters and used them in immunofluorescence assays  of infected cells grown on slides and sampled at different time points  . Each slide was co-incubated with rabbit antisera from one of the ThMFS  and rat antisera to T . The antisera to ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 gave clear and specific labelling of the surface of parasites consistent with a plasma membrane location  in samples taken during the time course of infection  . By contrast , no parasite specific IFA signals were detected for the antisera to ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 at any stage of the infection cycle , despite observing consistent labelling of the mitosomes and nuclei of parasites  . The reasons for the lack of ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 signals are not known but the expression levels of these two genes were much lower than for ThMFS1 and ThMFS3  , so it is possible that the antibodies we used were insufficiently sensitive to detect expression in our model system or the proteins were not expressed under the experimental conditions used . Consistent with these possibilities , the antisera for ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 gave no parasite-specific signal in western blot analyses on total protein extracts from T . hominis spores , in contrast to the strong signals for antisera to ThMFS1 and ThMFS3  . The antisera for ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 also generated relatively weaker signals against the peptides used as antigens in dot blots suggesting the antibodies may be ineffective  . The antisera for ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 showed different patterns of parasite labelling during the infection  , suggesting that they have evolved functional differences following gene duplication , as previously shown for the paralogous NTT transporters of T . We detected no labelling of the parasite surface by the antisera to ThMFS1 in replicate slides at 3 hr post-infection , despite transcript levels for the gene being relatively high at this point  and clear labelling of mitosomes and nuclei on the same slides  . The ThMFS1 antisera gave strong labelling of the surface of parasites at 14 hr , 22 hr and 40 hr post-infection  . This suggests that ThMFS1 has a role in supporting parasite development within the SPOV . hominis spores  has shown , however , that ThMFS1 is present in spores . We detected strong parasite surface labelling by antisera to ThMFS3 from 3 hr up to 40 hr post-infection , but no labelling by antisera to ThMFS3 of either parasites or SPOV membrane in slides for 70 hr and 96 hr  . The absence of signal for ThMFS3 on the surface of mature vegetative cells at 70 hr appears to be stage specific because fields of highly infected RK13 cells that contain a mix of mature and early stage parasites  , show strongly labelled smaller cells  . Labelling of small cells characteristic of earlier time points , with antisera for ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 at 96 hr post-infection , are also consistent with the initiation of new infections from germinating newly differentiated spores  . Consistent with the absence in IFA of a detectable signal for ThMFS3 in the later stages of parasite development , ThMFS3 was not detected in proteomics data for purified T . Upon their discovery , it was suggested  that the Nematocida homologues of ThMFS transporters might be purine and pyrimidine nucleoside transporters like the E . coli strains  to test if the ThMFS1-4 proteins could transport radiolabelled uridine , using the E . coli codon-optimised ThMFS in different E . coli strain GD1333 , which lacks the two endogenous nucleoside transporters NupG and NupC  , was used as the expression host in these assays  . In contrast to the positive control expressing recombinant NupG , none of the ThMFS proteins transported -uridine above background levels for the empty vector control   . These data suggest that uridine is not a substrate for transport by ThMFS1-4 . We recently characterised the substrate specificities and evolution of a family of Microsporidia nucleotide transport proteins  that import ATP and GTP for parasite growth and replication inside infected host cells  . To investigate if the structural similarity between the ThMFS and NTT transporters is reflected in their transport properties , we tested if the ThMFS proteins could transport radiolabelled purine and pyrimidine nucleotides when expressed in E . All four ThMFS transported ATP above background , whereas E . Further experiments demonstrated that all four ThMFS proteins can also transport radiolabelled-GTP , but not radiolabelled-CTP or UTP  . coli cells expressing ThMFS transporters was time-dependent  . Our data demonstrate that ThMFS1-4 can transport purine and thus their substrate specificity overlaps with that of the previously characterised Microsporidia NTT nucleotide transporters  . coli NupG transporter is a H+ symporter that uses a proton gradient to drive the transport of uridine and other nucleosides  . To test if nucleotide uptake by ThMFS proteins is also proton dependent , we investigated -ATP and -GTP uptake by ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 in the presence of the protonophore carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone  . ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 are the most abundant transcripts in RNA-Seq  and both are detected on the cell surface of actively growing parasites  . coli expressing ThMFS1 or ThMFS3  , suggesting that they are not H+-symporters . The nucleotide transport activity of some Microsporidia NTT  were previously shown to be sensitive to CCCP treatment in the same expression system  . Previous studies have shown that Microsporidia lack the genes needed to make primary metabolites including nucleotides , and that they have a limited capacity to make their own energy  . Previous work suggests that Microsporidia can use surface-located NTT nucleotide transporters to import purine nucleotides including ATP and GTP during their intracellular growth  . In the present study , we show that Microsporidia have a second set of MFS transporters that they can potentially use to supplement their energy and nucleotide budget . hominis ThMFS transporters were able to transport ATP and GTP when expressed in E . The functional relevance of the transporters ThMFS2 and ThMFS4 is unclear as we were unable to detect any evidence of their protein expression in our model system . hominis ThMFS transporters might have similar transport properties to the E . However , as we show in the present study , the levels of shared sequence similarity between NupG and Microsporidia sequences are generally low . Moreover , characterised members of the MFS superfamily that includes the Microsporidia sequences and NupG , transport a broad spectrum of ions and solutes using a variety of different mechanisms  . This is exemplified by recently published data  for Microsporidia NTT transporters where substrate and mechanism vary among closely related paralogues  . In this study , we show that ThMFS1-4 do not transport uridine , a known pyrimidine nucleoside substrate of NupG  , and that ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 , are not inhibited by CCCP , a classic inhibitor of H+ symporters like NupG  . hominis has a putative uridine kinase  , most Microsporidia genomes appear to lack the kinases needed to utilise uridine and other nucleosides in their metabolism  , even if they could import them . Phylogenomic analyses suggest that these taxa form a monophyletic sister group to the true fungi , for which the name Rozellomycota has been suggested  , and that core Microsporidia form a distinct clade within Rozellomycota  . Like the Microsporidia , many of the Rozellomycota lack genes for making nucleotides de novo and some have a limited capacity for making their own ATP  . Recent work has shown that Rozella and Microsporidia possess horizontally acquired nucleotide  transport proteins that they can use to import host ATP , and in the case of Microsporidia other purine nucleotides and NAD+  . The topology of the NTT tree  suggests that NTT transporters were acquired by lateral gene transfer into the common ancestor of Rozella and Microsporidia and subsequently vertically inherited  . By contrast , all these species contain multiple homologues of the ThMFS transporters  suggesting that these transporters provide an alternative and hitherto unrecognised way for endoparasites to exploit the host nucleotide pool . hominis spores to the RK13 cells monolayer , the host cell monolayer was extensively washed with PBS in order to remove spores , followed by the addition of fresh culture medium . Pairs of peptides were selected from hydrophilic segments of the ThMFS1-4 amino acid sequences and used to generate custom-made antisera targeting each of the four ThMFS1-4 candidate transporters  . hominis infected RK13 cells used for the synchronised infection experiments  were also grown on 13 mm glass coverslips and then fixed in methanol/acetone   at the different time points post-infection . Dilutions of antisera were as follows: anti-ThmtHSP70 1:200; anti-ThMFS1-4 1:50 . For anti-ThMFS2 and anti-ThMFS4 1:10 and 1:2 dilutions were also tested but no IFA signal was observed in any of the tested conditions . For ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 both rabbit antisera gave parasite-specific IFA signals . For ThMFS1 , the final antibody concentration was 5 . For ThMFS3 , the final antibody concentration was 3 . Quantification of the ThMFS antibody fluorescence signal was determined for fields including intracellular stages of the parasite . The four native ThMFS genes were PCR amplified from purified genomic DNA and cloned into the pET-16b expression vector . These have the following accession numbers: ThMFS2_native: MH824667 , ThMFS3_native: MH824668 . These sequences have the following GenBank accession numbers: ThMFS1_synthetic: MH824663; ThMFS2_synthetic: MH824664; ThMFS3_synthetic: MH824665; ThMFS4_synthetic: MH824666 . coli cell expressing the ThMFS1 and ThMFS3 transporters , we added 250 µM of CCCP to dissipate the H+ gradient across the bacterial membranes prior to transport assays  . "
"Here , we addressed theoretically this question using phyllotaxis , the geometric arrangement of plant aerial organs , as a model system . Motivated by recurrent observations of disorders in phyllotaxis patterns , we revisited in depth the classical deterministic view of phyllotaxis . We developed a stochastic model of primordia initiation at the shoot apex , integrating locality and stochasticity in the patterning system . This stochastic model recapitulates phyllotactic patterns , both regular and irregular , and makes quantitative predictions on the nature of disorders arising from noise . We further show that disorders in phyllotaxis instruct us on the parameters governing phyllotaxis dynamics , thus that disorders can reveal biological watermarks of developmental systems . Here we address this question theoretically using phyllotaxis , the remarkably regular geometric organization of plant aerial organs  along the stem , as a model system  . Phyllotaxis primarily arises at the shoot apical meristem , a specialized tissue containing a stem cell niche and located at the tip of growing shoots . Rooted in early works of pioneers such as  and after decades of research , the idea that phyllotactic patterns emerge from simple physical or bio-chemical lateral inhibitions between successive organs produced at the meristem has become largely prevalent ,  . Microscopic observations and modeling led to propose that this self-organizing process relies on five basic principles: i ) organs can form only close to the tip of growing shoots , ii ) no organ can form at the very tip , iii ) pre-existing organs prevent the formation of new organs in their vicinity  , forming altogether an inhibitory field that covers the organogenetic zone , iv ) due to growth , organs are progressively moved away from the organogenetic zone , v ) a new organ is formed as soon as the influence of the inhibitory field produced by the existing organs fades away at the growing tip ,  . In a detailed computational analysis  , Douady and Couder demonstrated the ability of such models to recapitulate a wide variety of phyllotactic patterns in a parsimonious way and that these patterns are under the control of a simple geometric parameter corresponding to the ratio between the radius of organ inhibitory fields and the radius of the central zone  . This modeling framework thus provides a deterministic theory of self-organizing patterns in the meristem characterized by a global geometric parameter , capturing macroscopic symmetries and orders emerging from lateral inhibitions , e . In the sequel , we will refer to this widely accepted view as the classical model of phyllotaxis . These transporters form a dynamic network that permanently reconfigures and that periodically accumulates auxin at specific locations on the meristem flanks  , initiating organ primordia  . By attracting auxin , the growing primordium depletes auxin in its vicinity , thus preventing organ formation in this region . The range of this inhibition corresponds to one of the two key parameters of the classical model: as primordia get away from the tip , inhibition is relaxed and auxin can accumulate again to initiate new primordia . the size of the apical domain in which no organ can form , it has been suggested that the very tip of the meristem contains significant quantities of auxin but is actually insensitive to auxin due to a down-regulation of the effectors of transcriptional auxin signaling  . A low auxin sensitivity then participates in blocking organ initiation in the central domain  of the meristem . However , in the recent years , the presence of irregularities in phyllotactic patterns has been repetitively observed in various genetic backgrounds  , suggesting that phyllotaxis has a non-deterministic component . Surprisingly , a structure could be found in these disorders that corresponds to either isolated or series of permutations in the order of lateral organs along the stem when taking a perfect spiral with divergence angle 137 . Live-imaging of meristems showed that organs are sometimes co-initiated in the meristem , leading randomly to post-meristematic organ order permutations in around half of the cases . Taken together , these observations called for revisiting in depth models of phyllotaxis to account for disorders in this self-organizing developmental system . wild type inflorescence of Arabidopsis thaliana showing regular spiral phyllotaxis . aph6 mutant inflorescence showing an irregular phyllotaxis: both the azimuthal angles and the distances between consecutive organs are largely affected . Organ initiation in the wild type: the size of organs is well hierarchized , initiations spaced by regular time intervals . Organ initiation in the ahp6 mutant: several organs may have similar sizes , suggesting that they were initiated simultaneously in the meristem  . A typical sequence of divergence angles in the WT: the angle is mainly close to  with possible exceptions  . In ahp6 , a typical sequence embeds more perturbations involving typically permutations of 2 or 3 organs . Frequency histogram of divergence angle: wild type  ; ahp6 mutant  ; WS-4 , long days  ; WS-4 short days - long days  . 003 Here , we show that the same disorders , the permutations , occur in various plant species , suggesting noisy plastochrons are a characteristic of phyllotactic systems at the origin of pattern disorders . In addition , we demonstrate that inhibitory fields pre-specify a number of organogenesis sites , suggesting noise on inhibition perception as the most likely origin of disorders . Building on this observation , we developed a stochastic model of organ initiation that is fully local and relies on a stochastic modeling of cell responses to inhibitory fields . Our stochastic model fully and precisely captures the observed dynamics of organogenesis at the meristem , recapitulating both regular and irregular phyllotactic patterns . We show that the stochastic model also makes quantitative predictions on the nature of the perturbations that may arise due to different genetic and growth manipulations . Most importantly , we demonstrate that disorders in phyllotactic patterns instruct us on the parameters governing the dynamics of phyllotaxis . Disorders can thus provide access to the biological watermarks corresponding to the parameter values of this self-organizing system , providing a striking example where disorders inform on mechanisms driving the dynamics of developmental systems . As permutations have been notably reported in Arabidopsis  and in sunflower  , we sampled a variety of unrelated species in the wild and searched for permutations . We could easily find permutations in several other Brassicaceae showing spiral phyllotaxis as well as in either monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous species from more distant families such as Asparagaceae , Sapindaceae or Araliaceae   . As suggested by the results on Arabidopsis , these observations raise the possibility that these organ permutations result from a noise on the plastochron and that such perturbation could be a common feature of phyllotactic systems that occurs in meristems with different geometries . Permutations can be observed in various species with spiral phyllotaxis . The first number  indicates the approximate azimuthal angle as a multiple of the plant’s divergence angle  . 004 To understand how the timing of organ initiation could be affected during meristem growth , we first analyzed the relative stability of inhibitory field minima in the classical deterministic model . Primordia are created on the meristem surface at the periphery of the meristem central zone , at a fixed distance R from the meristem center . As soon as created , a primordium q of radius r0 , generates an inhibitory field , E  in its neighborhood such that at a point x , at a distance d  >r0 , the inhibition due to q decreases with the distance to q:E   = ( r0d  ) s , where s is a geometric stiffness parameter ( E  is often regarded as an inhibitory energy emitted by primordium q , e . As a result , at any moment and for any point x of the meristem surface , the existing primordia create altogether a cumulated inhibition E  that is the sum of the individual primordium contributions: E  =∑q∈QE   , where Q denotes the set of all preexisting primordia . High inhibition levels on the peripheral circle prevent the initiation of new primordia at corresponding locations . However , as the preexisting primordia are moving away from the central zone during growth , the inhibitory level tends to decrease at each point of the peripheral circle . A new primordium initiates where and when the inhibitory field is under a predefined threshold on the peripheral circle . We then performed a systematic analysis of the inhibition profiles and their dynamics along the peripheral circle and observed the following properties  : In addition , we noticed that depending on time , the difference in inhibition level between consecutive local minima may markedly vary . In some cases this difference is so small that a biological noise may lead the biological system to perceive the ordering between two or more local minima differently from the ordering of the actual inhibition levels . Such errors would lead to initiate several primordia together or to change the temporal order of their initiation , thus inducing perturbations in the sequence of divergence angle . Also , as suggested by property 3 , the number of primordia initiation events affected by these errors would decrease with the Γ parameter and would thus depend on the geometry of the meristem . Properties of the inhibition profiles in the classical model and effect of a forced perturbation on divergence angles and plastochrons . Inhibition variation  along the peripheral circle and its global and local minima for a control parameter Γ1 = 0 . Variation of the distance E2−E1 between the global minimum of the inhibition landscape and the local minimum with closest inhibition level  , as a function of Γ . As the inhibition levels of local minima decrease , their angular position does not change significantly , even if new primordia are created  , color code: dark red for low inhibition and dark blue for high inhibition values . Sequence divergence angles between initiations simulated with the classical model  . Divergence angle of a series of simulations of the classical model with control parameter Γ1=0 . Temporal variation of the inhibitory profile around the central zone in the classical model for a large value of the parameter Γ . When the absolute minimum reaches the initiation threshold  , a primordium is created that instantaneously creates a strong inhibition locally , which suddenly increases the inhibition level at its location . Temporal variation of the inhibitory profile around the central zone in the classical model for a small value of the parameter Γ . 008 To investigate this possibility , we started to induce a perturbation in a stationary spiral pattern by forcing at a given time the system to initiate a primordium at the site of second local minimum instead of that of the global minimum  . We observed that the next primordium was always initiated at the site of the original global minimum , resulting in a divergence angle −ϕ and a quasi-null plastochron  . The system was then able to recover from the perturbation by initiating the next primordium at the originally expected site  , with a long plastochron , leading to a M-shaped pattern  . The rest of the divergence angle sequence was then not affected and remained at a value close to ϕ while long oscillatory perturbations were observed on plastochrons  . Stronger perturbations induced by forcing various other local minima to initiate instead of the global minimum  similarly demonstrated that the system spontaneously makes a short distorted pattern and then returns to the normal ϕ baseline in every case . We concluded that i ) a noise in the perception of the local primordium order does not propagate far in the divergence angle sequence and that angle specification in the classical model patterning system is highly robust to perturbations in local minima initiation ordering and ii ) however , the plastochron itself is affected during a much longer time span . Temporal variation of the inhibitory profile around the central zone in the stochastic model for a small value of the parameter Γ . The dynamics of the divergence angle and of the plastochron are shown in the bottom graphs to interpret the model's initiations based on the inhibition levels . 009 Together , these results suggest that time and space in primordium initiation are largely decoupled in inhibitory field-driven self-organization as locations of primordia are strongly pre-specified and relatively stable , while plastochrons are not . This observation is in line with the observations from live-imaging of Arabidopsis shoot apical meristem that demonstrated that despite variability in the plastochron  the specification of initiation sites was extremely robust  . Our previous results suggest that high variability in the timing of organ initiation could result from the joint effect of noise in the perception of inhibitory fields and of the decoupling between space and time in this self-organizing system . We therefore decided to revisit the inhibitory field models to integrate locality and stochasticity as central components in the patterning system . For this , we kept from the classical deterministic model the assumptions related to the movement of primordia at the meristem through growth and to the definition of inhibitory fields . However , we completely reformulated the way primordia are initiated as local stochastic processes . At any time t , the K cells that make up the periphery of the central zone potentially may take the identity of a primordium , depending on the local value of the inhibitory field  in each cell . We assume that this switch in cell identity does not depend on a threshold effect as in the classical model but , rather , depends on the cellular perception of the inhibitory signal which , in essence , is stochastic  . We thus assumed that each cell k reads out the local inhibitory field value , Ek  , and switches its state to primordium identity with a probability that  depends on the level of inhibition Ek  ;  is proportional to the amount of time δt the cell is exposed to this level of signaling  :  P ( Xk  =1 ) =λ ( Ek  ) δt , where Xk  denotes the number of primordia initiated at cell k in the time interval  ( Xk  will typically have a value 0 or 1 ) , and λ is a rate parameter that depends on the local inhibition value Ek  at cell k and that can be interpreted as a temporal density of initiation . To express the influence of inhibitory fields on the probability of initiation , the dependence of λ on the local inhibition Ek  must respect a number of general constraints: i ) λ must be a decreasing function of the inhibition as the higher the inhibition level at one site , the lower the probability to observe an initiation at this site during δt; ii ) for small δt , for P ( Xk  =1 ) to be a probability , we must have 0≤λ ( Ek  ) δt≤1; iii ) the ratio of the probabilities to trigger an initiation at two different sites is a function of the difference in inhibition levels between these sites . Under all these constraints , the rate parameter takes the following form  :  λ ( Ek  ) =e−β ( Ek  −E∗ ) , where E∗ is a parameter controlling the sensitivity of the system to inhibition , and β is a parameter controlling the ability of the system to discriminate between inhibition levels , i . Therefore , for each cell k , the probability to initiate a primordium during a small time interval δt can be expressed as:  P ( Xk  =1 ) =e−β ( Ek  −E∗ ) δt . If we now assume that the probabilities to observe an initiation at a site k in disjoint time intervals are independent , the process described by Equation 3 is known as a non-homogeneous Poisson process of intensity λ ( Ek  )  . Therefore for each cell k of the periphery , our model assumes that the probability to initiate a primordium is a non-homogeneous Poisson process , whose parameter is regulated by the local level of the inhibitory field at that site . This stochastic formulation of the model at the level of cells , called SMPmicro  , makes it possible to develop the calculus of different key quantities or properties of the system . For example , if we assume that recruitments of cells for organ initiation are stochastically independent from each other  , then we can estimate the expected number of cells independently recruited for organ initiation during the timespan δt . Its expectation is simply the sum of the expectations of the individual independent Poisson processes:  E ( X  ) =∑k=1KE ( Xk  ) =∑k=1KP ( Xk  =1 ) =δt∑k=1Ke−β ( Ek  −E∗ ) , therefore giving us an estimate of the expected number of peripheral cells initiated during time δt and for the inhibition profile E  . So far we have considered peripheral cells as independent sites that may independently switch to primordium identity with a probability that depends on their local level of inhibition . As a local inhibition valley may span over several cells , one might expect that the probability to trigger a primordium initiation in a valley is increased by the fact that several founder cells can potentially contribute to this initiation during time δt . To formalize this , we then upscaled our stochastic model at the level of valleys where a stochastic process is now attached to each local minimum l instead of to each cell k . The idea is that the stochastic processes of all the cells k spanned by a local inhibition valley l sum up and together define a stochastic process Nl that a primordium is initiated in l at a higher level . Being the sum of independent Poisson processes , this upscaled process is also a Poisson process with intensity Λl=∑k∈Klλk ( Ek  ) , where k varies over the set of cells spanned by the valley of the l th local minimum and indexed by Kl . Therefore , at microscopic scale , SMPmicro couples i ) a deterministic part inherited from the classical model and related to the geometry and the dynamics of the fields and ii ) a new stochastic part related to the perception of this inhibitory field , i . Decisions regarding primordium initiation are taken in a cell-autonomous manner , thus reflecting more realistically the outcome of the initiation signaling pathway in each cell . At a macroscopic level , in each inhibition valley several cells may trigger primordium initiation . The probability to trigger an initiation increases in SMPmacro with the size of the valley when more than one founder cell are likely to contribute to initiation . A variant of this upscaled model consists of defining the probability for a valley to initiate a primordium by the probability of the cell with lowest level of inhibition in this valley . In addition to the geometrical parameters of the classical model , two new parameters , β and E∗ now reflect the ability of the system to perceive the inhibitory signal from the fields  . As expected from a phyllotaxis model , the stochastic model is able to produce both spiral and whorl modes , from either imposed initial distributions of organs  , or random starting points  . However , the great majority of the sequences of divergence angle generated for different values of Γ=r0/R displayed divergence angle perturbations  of the type observed in Figure 4D–E . As suggested by their typical distributions  , these perturbations correspond to permutations very similar to those observed on real plants in previous studies  with the appearance of secondary modes at multiples of 137 , Figure 1F–I . The model generates spiral patterns ( in  , up: sequence of simulated divergence angles , down: corresponding plastochrons ) . Simple M-shaped permutations simulated by the stochastic model  . More complex simulated permutations involving 2- and 3-permutations  . Typical histogram of simulated divergence angles and corresponding plastochron distribution for β = 11 . Histogram of simulated divergence angles and corresponding plastochron distribution for β = 9 . 8  Histogram of simulated divergence angles and corresponding plastochron distribution for β = 9 . This is reminiscent of the observation of co-initiations in growing meristems associated with perturbed phyllotaxis  . The stochastic model is thus able to produce perturbed sequences with realistic series of divergence angles and corresponding realistic distributions of plastochrons . We then aimed to quantitatively assess the complexity level of permutations as a proxy for plastochron noise . For this we focused on spiral phyllotaxis modes and used two measures: the density of permuted organs respectively involved in 2 and 3-permutations π2=2 . σ3/Σ where σ2 and σ3 are respectively the number of 2- and 3-permutations in the sequence and Σ the total number of organs in the sequence . We first explored the intensity of permutations of different natures  in simulated phyllotaxis sequences . To make this relationship explicit , we plotted the proportion of organs involved in 2-permutations π2 as a function of the total proportion of perturbed organs π  . Surprisingly , the points , when put together on a graph , were organized in a narrow crescent showing a convex curve-like relationship between π and π2 , revealing a remarkable property of the stochastic model: the more perturbations there are in the simulated sequences , the higher the proportion of 3-permutations , and this independently of the model parameters . The measured points fall within the range of predicted values and show that the measured values follow the same non-linear variation as the one predicted by the model: the larger the total percentage of permutations , the larger the proportion of 3-permutations in the sequences . This confirms a first prediction from the stochastic model and indicates that disorder complexity increases non-linearly with the frequency of disorders . As the perturbation intensity π increases , the percentage of 2-permutations decreases in a non-linear way to the benefit of more complex 3-permutations . In red: values of 2- and 3-permutations observed in different mutants and ecotypes of Arabidopsis thaliana  placed on the plot of values predicted by the stochastic model . This file contains a table showing the variation of permutation intensities with model parameters . We ran simulations using the SMPmacro-max model for different parameter values where the local minima of inhibition profile indicate the potential initiation sites  . We then used the combinatorial model  to detect permutations in the simulated sequences . We then analyzed the sequences using the combinatorial model to detect permutation patterns . As a general trend , for a value of s fixed to 3 as in  , we noticed that for a given value of Γ , an increase in β was roughly counteracted in terms of permutation intensity by a decrease in E∗ . We gathered all these observations in one graph and plotted the global amount of perturbation π in a sequence as a function of a combination of the three original model parameters and reflecting the observed trend: ΓP=ΓβE∗ . For combinations of the three model parameters leading to a small ΓP , the perturbations can affect up to 50% of the organs whereas for high values of ΓP , there may be no perturbation at all . Interestingly , ΓP being a combination of the three elementary model parameters , plants having identical geometrical parameter Γ may show substantially different intensities of perturbations if their perception for different values of parameters β , E∗ . Consequently , since the intensity of perturbation in the system is more simply reflected by ΓP than by values of Γ , β , E∗ taken independently , ΓP can be considered to be a control parameter for perturbations . Key parameters controlling phyllotaxis phenotypes in the stochastic model . Phyllotaxis sequences were simulated for a range of values of each parameter β , E∗ , Γ . Each point in the graph corresponds to a particular triplet of parameter values and represents the average value over 60 simulated sequences for this triplet . Divergence angle α as a function of the control parameter Γ of the classical model on the Fibonacci branch . Divergence angle α as a function of the new control parameter ΓD=Γ1β1/6E∗1/2 on the Fibonacci branch  . Plastochron T as a function of control parameter of the classical model Γ . New control parameter ΓD for divergence angle and plastochrons . Each graph is made up of points that correspond to different values of the parameters Γ , β , E∗ of the stochastic model . Left column: different trials to define a control parameter for divergence angles α . 014 To further investigate the structure of the stochastic model , we then studied how the usual observable quantities of a phyllotaxis system , i . divergence angles and plastochrons , depend on the model parameters Γ , β , E∗ and s . In the classical deterministic model , divergence angles are a function of a unique control parameter Γ=r0/R  , meaning that the same divergence angle can be obtained in the model for different couples of r0 and R provided that their ratio is unchanged . We thus checked whether Γ could also serve as the control parameter for the divergence angles and plastochrons in the stochastic model . For this , we simulated various spiral phyllotaxis sequences  by varying Γ , β , E∗ and estimated the corresponding divergence angle α and plastochron T , Figure 6B , D . We observed that , although the point clouds evoke the corresponding curves in the standard deterministic model  , significantly different values of the divergence angles  can be observed for many particular values of Γ . This phenomenon suggests that Γ is not a satisfactory control parameter in the stochastic model: for a given value of Γ , varying β or E∗ can significantly modify the divergence angle or the plastochron . For this definition of ΓD , each value of the control parameter can be associated with quasi-unique divergence angle and plastochron , i . We concluded that ΓD can be considered as a second control parameter of the stochastic model , relating the system’s state to the observable variables α and T through a unique combination of the system’s parameters . According to the stochastic model , a particular phyllotaxis system is characterized by a particular set of values of the parameters Γ , β , E∗ . Upon growth , a specific spatio-temporal dynamics emerges that is characterized by observable variables: divergence angle , plastochron and frequency of permutations . In the case of the WT for example , ΓD is estimated to be in  and ΓP in  according to the observed value of the plastochron , divergence angle and permutation intensity . However , being underdetermined in one dimension only , this system plays the role of a generalized control parameter: a given value of the generalized control parameter  determines the parameters Γ , β , E∗ up to one degree of freedom . Several recent works demonstrated that mutations or changes in growth conditions could alter phyllotaxis and disorder patterns . Our model predicts correlations between main observable phyllotaxis variables . Therefore , the model predicts that , like in the classical model , plastochron positively correlates with r0  and negatively correlates with R  . However , the model makes also in this case the new prediction that plastochron negatively correlates with the frequency of observed permutations  . By changing growth conditions  or by using different accessions or mutants with markedly different meristem sizes from that of the wild type  , changes in the size of the meristem could be induced . The authors hypothesized that this change affected the size of the central zone only and not the size of primordia inhibitory fields . Corresponding changes in Γ were observed to positively correlate with the frequency of organ permutations and negatively correlate with plastochron , as predicted by our model . In addition , the stochastic model makes it possible to quantitatively estimate the changes in central zone sizes from the measured phyllotaxis disorders with an error less than 5%  . Since the size R of the meristems did not change , the model suggests that ahp6 is altered in the size r0 of the primordia inhibitory fields . In both the previous analysis and in related works  , the permutation detection was restricted to 2- and 3-permutations . However , the stochastic model potentially predicts the existence of higher order permutations , i . 4- and 5-permutations , in Arabidopsis thaliana especially for small values of the control parameter ΓP . When higher order permutation are allowed in the detection algorithm  , most of the unexplained angles for WS4 can be interpreted as being part of 4- and even 5-permutations  . When only 2- and 3-permutations are allowed , some angles in the sequences cannot be explained by  permutations  . Allowing higher order permutations allows to interpret all the observe angles as stemming from 2- , 3- 4- and 5-permutations  . As discussed above , the stochastic model explains this: if a mutation , or a change in growth conditions only affects the geometry of the system Γ=r0/R , then ΓD and ΓP are both affected in the same sense  . The model thus predicts that , in such a case , it is possible to expect an augmentation in the disorder correlated with a decrease in organ initiation frequency . While the stochastic model is able to reproduce the major spiral and whorl phyllotaxis patterns , stochasticity induces alterations in the patterning process mainly affecting the plastochron i . These alterations take the form of permutations of the order of organ initiation in the meristem . If the plastochron is small as frequently observed in real sequences of permuted organs , permutations in the model can be considered equivalent to co-initiations that have been identified in the Arabidopsis meristem as the main source of permutations observed on the inflorescence stem . In this case , they can be interpreted as true permutations of the order of organ initiation in the meristem , consistently with the low frequency of such meristematic permutations observed also in Arabidopsis  . These results are in line with a previous attempt at introducing stochasticity in the classical deterministic model that could also induce permutations  . However in this latter work only a limited frequency of defects could be induced  , while requiring time discretization and post-meristematic randomization of organ order when more than one organ initiation were detected in the same simulation time step . By contrast , the capacity of the stochastic model to reproduce faithfully perturbed sequences as observed in Arabidopsis indicates that the model captures accurately the dynamics of the phyllotactic system . Taken with the fact that permutations are observed in a variety of species and genotypes from a given species , our theoretical results identify noise on the plastochron as a common characteristic of phyllotaxis systems that may generate disorders in these developmental systems . It is important to note that our work points at stochasticity in signaling mechanisms allowing perception of inhibitory fields as the most likely origin of this developmental noise but does not entirely rule out the idea that other phenomenon might contribute  . However we have observed that spatial discretization for example can modify the frequency of permutations in the model , although this effect is limited  . A possible interpretation is that changes in the size of cells could also contribute to a certain point to noise on the plastochron , an idea that could be further explored . Importantly , phyllotaxis dynamics in the stochastic model relies not only on the geometry of the inhibitory fields captured by the Γ parameter as in previous deterministic models   , but also on two new parameters E∗ and β  . Our work thus suggests that a robust self-organization of a 3D developmental system driven by lateral inhibition depends both on the geometr of inhibitory fields in a tissue but also on the signaling capacities of cells in tissues . These theoretical observations are consistent with the key role of signaling in phyllotaxis  , and with the setting of patterning dynamics in animal systems , downstream of morphogenetic signals  . In addition , we predict that due to pre-specification of initiation sites , noise in phyllotaxis is expected mainly on the timing of patterning . This might explain the selection through evolution of genetic mechanisms , such as the one recently described implicating the AHP6 protein  , to diminish noise on plastochron and disorders in phyllotaxis . Here we show that biological noise at microscopic scale may be revealed at macroscopic scale in the form of organ disorders , the permutations . Our stochastic model of phyllotaxis suggests that these disorders bear information on the more profound , hidden variables that control the phyllotaxis patterning . Much like digital watermarks that represent a copyright or any information to be hidden in images or audio signals , the actual variables  representing the state of the phyllotaxis system are not directly apparent in the plant phenotype  . However , by scrutinizing carefully the image or , here , the phyllotaxis pattern and their perturbations with adequate decoding algorithms , it is possible to reveal the hidden information that was “watermarked” in the original signal . In this way , permutations together with divergence angle α and plastochron T reveal key information about the state of the system that has produced them , as their knowledge drastically reduces the set of possible Γ , β and E∗ values . Our model suggests that this change is reflected in macroscopic alterations of the phyllotaxis patterns that convey information about their possible molecular origin . To illustrate this , we used our stochastic model to confirm that changes in permutation frequencies due to changes in growth conditions are most likely explained by a specific modulation of Γ , as previously proposed   . Movement of AHP6 from organs has been proposed to generate secondary inhibitory fields that filter co-initiation at the meristem , decreasing the frequency of permutations . Based on permutation modifications , our theoretical framework suggests that AHP6 effect on the phyllotactic system does not need to be viewed as an additional specific mechanism acting on plastochron robustness but could be simply interpreted as a mechanism increasing Γ slightly . As no differences in auxin-based inhibitory fields could be detected between ahp6 mutant and wild-type plants   , our model thus leads to a vision with composite inhibitory fields resulting at least from the combined effect of auxin-based and AHP6-based subfields . Combined with data on divergence angles and on the plastochron , we further predict that the phyllotactic disorders could be used to identify mutants affected in biological mechanisms that controls β and/or E* . The model indicates that such mutations would have an opposite effect on frequency of permutations and on plastochron . Precise and automated quantifications of the permutation , divergence angles and plastochron would allow for screening for such mutants and should become feasible with the fast development of phenotyping tools  . Our model only takes into account stochasticity in the perception of inhibitory fields by cells and is based on two biologically plausible assumptions: that this perception is mostly cell autonomous and that it only depends on the local level of the inhibitory signal . This provides a reasonable abstraction of local stochastic fluctuations in i ) hormonal concentrations related to inhibition produced by each primordium ii ) in the activity of the signal transduction pathway leading to initium creation . However the capacity of the stochastic model to capture accurately phyllotaxis suggests that it also captures plausible emergent properties of the underlying molecular mechanisms . This model thus not only provides a framework to understand the dynamics of patterning in the meristem but also the properties of the signaling mechanisms that process the different signals involved . Note also that the predictive capacities of our model suggest that noise on perception could be the most influential source of noise in the system . Moreover , similarly to the classical deterministic model of phyllotaxis , our stochastic model does not explicitly account for the cascade of molecular processes that participate to the establishment of new inhibitory fields at the location of incipient primordia . To do so , more mechanistic versions of this stochastic model could be developed in the future , combining more detailed cellular models of hormone-based fields , e . , and stochastic perception of these hormonal signals in 2D or 3D models with cell resolution . Deterministic models do not account for the high variability that can be observed in systems behaviors , indicating that they fail to capture some key characteristics of biological systems  . Based on the classical model of phyllotaxis  , a complete and formal presentation of the stochastic model is described in the Appendix section 3 . In particular , it is shown how the exponential form of the intensity law can be derived from basic model assumptions and how different observable quantities can be expressed using the model parameters . As this algorithm is central to the identification of permutations , we additionally tested its ability to detect correctly permutations on synthetic data in which known permutation patterns were introduced  . The parameter space of the stochastic model was explored by varying values of Γ , β and E∗ . Each simulation run generated a sequence of 25 divergence angles and corresponding plastochrons . The models describing the different non-linear relationships between the observable variables and the control parameters ΓD and ΓP were fitted with Gauss-Newton non-linear least-squares method  . "
"Atopic dermatitis can result from loss of structural proteins in the outermost epidermal layers , leading to a defective epidermal barrier . To test whether this influences tumour formation , we chemically induced tumours in EPI−/− mice , which lack three barrier proteins—Envoplakin , Periplakin , and Involucrin . EPI−/− mice were highly resistant to developing benign tumours when treated with 7 , 12-dimethylbenz  anthracene  and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate  . The DMBA response was normal , but EPI−/− skin exhibited an exaggerated atopic response to TPA , characterised by abnormal epidermal differentiation , a complex immune infiltrate and elevated serum thymic stromal lymphopoietin  . The exacerbated TPA response could be normalised by blocking TSLP or the immunoreceptor NKG2D but not CD4+ T cells . We conclude that atopy is protective against skin cancer in our experimental model and that the mechanism involves keratinocytes communicating with cells of the immune system via signalling elements that normally protect against environmental assaults . Several epidemiological studies have suggested that atopic dermatitis  , hives , allergies to animal fur , and certain food ingredients are inversely associated with cancers of tissues that provide an interface with the external environment , such as the skin  . Therefore , we sought to examine the link between AD and cancer susceptibility using a mouse model of AD in which the primary defect is in the epidermal barrier that is normally protective against pathogens . The skin barrier is formed by terminally differentiated keratinocytes in the outermost layers of the epidermis , known as the cornified layers or stratum corneum . Mice triply deficient in envoplakin , periplakin , and involucrin  have a defective epidermal barrier and exhibit a reduction in epidermal γδTCR+ CD3+ cells  and infiltration of CD4+ T cells into the dermis  . The skin barrier phenotype of EPI−/− mice shares similarity with the flaky tail mouse , which has nonsense mutations in the keratin filament associated protein filaggrin and the transmembrane protein Tmem79 , which is a component of lamellar granules  , the latter resulting in defective stratum corneum formation . To test the potential association between a defective skin barrier , AD and cancer , we have subjected EPI−/− mice to the classic two-stage chemical carcinogenesis protocol  . Repeated applications of the promoting agent 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate   allow initiated , mutagenized cells to clonally expand and form benign tumours called papillomas , some of which progress to malignant squamous cell carcinomas   . While most human skin SCCs are associated with UV , rather than chemical , carcinogenesis , 10% do have Ras gene mutations  , and DMBA/TPA carcinogenesis has contributed substantially to our understanding of the steps of tumour development in human skin  . To determine whether lack of Evpl , Ppl and Ivl influences sensitivity to tumour formation , we compared DMBA/TPA skin carcinogenesis  in mice lacking all three genes  and wild-type  mice on the same genetic background . Since EPI−/− mice were on a mixed Sv129 and C57Bl/6 background , F2 crosses between WT Sv129 and C57Bl/6J mice were used to generate the WT controls for all experiments . Mice that received DMBA or TPA alone did not develop tumours . Chemical carcinogenesis in EPI−/− and WT mice . Back skin , papillomas  and SCCs from WT mice were immunostained for Envoplakin , Periplakin , or Involucrin  and DAPI  . 003 The first papillomas emerged in both groups 5–6 weeks after the start of TPA promotion , and the maximum number of papillomas was reached by 15–16 weeks  . The average number of papillomas per mouse was approximately sixfold lower in EPI−/− than WT mice  . The incidence of papilloma formation was also lower in EPI−/− mice  . Over 95% of WT mice had at least one papilloma 14 weeks after the start of promotion , whereas 50% of EPI−/− mice were tumour-free at the end of the experiment  . Thus combined deletion of envoplakin , periplakin , and involucrin decreased epidermal susceptibility to chemically induced benign tumours . There was no difference in SCC burden or incidence between EPI−/− and WT mice  . However , since EPI−/− mice had fewer papillomas , the SCC conversion frequency was higher than in WT mice . We observed a downregulation of envoplakin , periplakin , and involucrin in WT papillomas and SCCs  , leading us to speculate that the increased risk of SCC conversion in EPI−/− papillomas may be linked to the lack of two desmosomal proteins  . To determine whether the resistance of EPI−/− mice to papilloma formation was due to a reduced DMBA response , we examined responses to a single topical application of carcinogen . Skin was analysed 24 hr after one application of DMBA in 4 mice per genotype . DMBA binds to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor  , leading to upregulation of the cytochrome P-450 enzymes Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 , which convert DMBA into the active metabolite that causes HRas mutations  . There were no differences in expression of AhR , the AhR repressor  , Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 between WT and EPI−/− epidermis , either in the steady state or after application of DMBA  . Langerhans cells resident in the epidermis metabolise DMBA to the active form and as a result DMBA/TPA treated Langerhans cell-deficient mice do not develop papillomas  . However , EPI−/− and WT epidermis contained similar numbers of CD207+ Langerhans cells  . Response of EPI−/− and WT mice to DMBA . The proportion of epidermal cells that expressed γH2AX was similar in EPI−/− and WT epidermis , whether or not the skin had been treated with DMBA  . Furthermore , topical application of DMBA resulted in a similar apoptotic response , as detected by cleaved caspase-3-positive cells and quantitation of mRNA levels for a panel of apoptotic and anti-apoptotic genes  . Levels of the DMBA ‘signature’ Hras  mutation  were the same in mRNA extracted from SCCs of WT or EPI−/− mice  . We did not detect mutations in exons 4 , 5 , 8 and 9 of p53 in WT or EPI−/− tumours  . We conclude that differences in DMBA uptake and activation or activity did not account for the resistance of EPI−/− mice to chemical carcinogenesis . Since WT and EPI−/− mice did not differ in DMBA responsiveness , we next investigated whether their response to the promotion phase of the two-stage carcinogenesis protocol was aberrant . Mice received three topical applications of TPA  , which corresponds to 1 week of promotion , and skin was collected 48 hr after the last treatment . EPI−/− mice exhibited an exacerbated response to TPA  . Their skin was reddened , dry and scaly , whereas that of WT mice was not  . Widening of intercellular spaces in the epidermal basal layer  was extensive in EPI−/− but not WT skin  . Epidermal thickness , measured as the distance from the basal to the upper granular layer , was greater in EPI−/− mice treated with TPA or DMBA/TPA than in WT mice , and this correlated with a greater number of suprabasal layers  . The numbers of keratinocytes with dsDNA breaks and active caspase-3 were similar in EPI−/− and WT epidermis  . H&E stained skin sections of mice treated three times with acetone or TPA . Number of epidermal cells positively labeled for PH3  , γH2AX  and active caspase-3  per cm skin  . Number of BrdU positive cells in basal and uppermost two granular layers per cm epidermis of mice treated three times with TPA and injected with BrdU 24 hr before harvesting . 005 The number of mitotically active basal cells , measured by PhosphoHistone3 staining , was similar in TPA-treated EPI−/− and WT epidermis , whether or not the skin was pre-treated with DMBA  . The numbers of BrdU positive cells in the basal layer and outermost granular layers of EPI−/− and WT epidermis were not significantly different  . Since EPI−/− epidermis contained more suprabasal layers , the transit time of keratinocytes through the epidermis was faster in EPI−/− than WT epidermis . We conclude that , in contrast to the DMBA response , the response of epidermal keratinocytes to TPA was markedly different in EPI−/− and WT mice . Because inflammation is a crucial factor in skin tumour development  and EPI−/− skin has an abnormal number of DETCs and CD4+CD3+ lymphocytes  , we examined whether the inflammatory response to short term TPA treatment was altered in skin with a defective epidermal barrier . Consistent with our previous observations  , vehicle-treated EPI−/− skin had a reduced number of epidermal γδTCR+CD3+ lymphocytes   and EPI−/− γδ T cells exhibited a more rounded morphology , indicative of activation  . On TPA treatment , the number of DETCs in both EPI−/− and WT epidermis decreased  . In contrast , TPA treatment stimulated recruitment of CD4+CD3+ lymphocytes into the skin of EPI−/− mice to a greater extent than in WT mice  . On TPA treatment , CD4+ T cells infiltrated EPI−/− but not WT epidermis  . The number of pustules was significantly higher in TPA-treated EPI−/− compared with WT skin  . Immune cell responses to TPA treatment . Quantitation of specific T lymphocyte populations  , pustules  , mast cells  , eosinophils  , and macrophages  per mm epidermis or mm2 dermis . Skin sections of mice treated three times with acetone  or TPA  and labelled for CD11b  , Ly6G  , CD3  , γδTCR  or CD4  with DAPI nuclear counterstain  . 006 TPA treated EPI−/− skin showed a pronounced infiltration of dermal mast cells and eosinophils  , but not macrophages   . Similar differences in immune cell recruitment in EPI−/− and WT skin were observed when mice were treated with DMBA prior to TPA  . Pustule formation and dermal infiltration of mast cells , eosinophils and CD4+ T cells are hallmarks of the acute phase of atopic dermatitis in humans . Thus the response of EPI−/− skin to TPA resembled the acute phase of the human disease and involved recruitment of multiple leukocyte subsets . To investigate how a defective epidermal barrier could lead to an enhanced inflammatory response to TPA , we compared cytokine and chemokine expression in epidermis and dermis of WT and EPI−/− mice . In EPI−/− epidermis treated with acetone , transcripts related to innate immunity  were higher than in WT , and these differences were maintained when transcript levels were upregulated by TPA treatment  . Type 1 cytokine transcripts were expressed at similar levels in WT and EPI−/− epidermis and dermis and were not upregulated to the same extent as other types of cytokines by TPA  . There was a striking upregulation of type 2 cytokines , including IL-4 , IL-6 , IL-13 , IL-33 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin  , in epidermis and dermis of EPI−/− TPA-treated mice; this was not observed to a similar extent in WT skin . Type 17 transcripts were upregulated by TPA in epidermis of both genotypes , but were higher in EPI−/− epidermis  . Increased transcript levels of a number of chemokines , in particular Cxcl-5 and GM-CSF , were found in TPA treated EPI−/− vs WT skin , in agreement with the increased dermal infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils . We conclude that the immune response to TPA in EPI−/− skin correlated with expression of pro-inflammatory genes with a type 2/type 17 profile . Stress signals , cytokine , and chemokine production in EPI−/− and WT skin . 4-fold higher in EPI−/− than WT mice  . There was also a higher level of TSLP in EPI−/− serum  . TSLP is mainly produced by keratinocytes and is associated with increased resistance to skin carcinogenesis  . TSLP levels are elevated when Notch signalling in skin is impaired  . However , EPI−/− and WT epidermis expressed comparable levels of Notch1 , 2 and 3 , Notch ligand Jag1 and Notch target genes Hey-1 , Hes-1 and Hes-5 , with or without TPA treatment  . These results suggested that lymphoid stress-surveillance of tissue damage could underlie the exacerbated inflammatory response to TPA exposure in EPI−/− mice . Rae-1 and H60 levels were significantly higher in EPI−/− than WT epidermis under steady-state conditions . Both were strongly upregulated 24 hr after DMBA treatment , H60 to a greater extent in EPI−/− mice . The effects of TPA treatment on Rae-1 and H60 expression were less pronounced . We conclude that the defective barrier of EPI−/− mice results in elevated expression of keratinocyte stress-associated genes that could prime them for an exacerbated atopic response to TPA . To investigate the mechanism by which TPA provoked an exacerbated atopic response in EPI−/− epidermis , we used several different inhibitory strategies . DXM also prevented the selective increase in spleen size observed in TPA-treated EPI−/− mice  . Blocking strategies to revert the atopic response to TPA treatment . H&E stained skin sections of WT and EPI−/− mice painted with TPA and injected with IgG  , Dexamethasone  , α-CD4 antibody  , α-Ly6G antibody  or α-IL4  . Spleen mass of mice treated with acetone , TPA or TPA + Dexamethasone as % of body weight . Numbers of granulocytes per μl blood in TPA treated mice injected with IgG or α-Ly6G antibody . Quantification of serum levels of IL-4 in EPI−/− mice treated with IL-4 or control antibodies . Effects of anti-IL-4 on epidermal thickness    and dermal CD4 + T cells  . 008 Since tumour resistance of Notch deficient skin is attributable mainly to CD4+ T cells  , we examined the effect of intraperitoneal injections of blocking CD4 antibodies . Specific CD4 targeting resulted in augmented skin hyperplasia and dermal inflammation in TPA-treated WT mice , but had no effect on EPI−/− skin  . The immunosuppressive role of CD4+ cells in WT skin may be attributable to the regulatory subset of CD4+ cells   . There was a marked increase in neutrophil infiltration in EPI−/− TPA-treated skin compared to WT  . We also targeted IL-4 to evaluate whether inhibition of a generalised type 2 immune response could normalize the effects of TPA in EPI−/− skin  . Inhibition of IL-4 reduced the number of CD4+ cells in the dermis  , as expected , but had no effect on epidermal thickness  nor on the number of mast cells , eosinophils or epidermal γδ T cells  . Taken together , these observations indicate that the exacerbated TPA response in EPI−/− skin involves multiple immune cell types and cannot be normalized by inhibiting one specific leukocyte subset . To analyse the role of the Rae-1/NKG2D/TSLP axis in the exacerbated atopic response of EPI−/− skin to TPA , we interfered with the epidermal lymphoid stress surveillance response by in vivo antibody blockade of TSLP or NKG2D  . TSLP and NKG2D inhibition reduce epidermal responses to TPA . H&E stained sections of skin from TPA-treated mice injected with IgG , anti-TSLP , or anti-NKG2D antibodies . Quantification of serum levels of TSLP in WT and EPI−/− mice treated with TSLP or control antibodies . Number of BrdU positive cells in basal  and uppermost two granular  epidermal layers in mice treated with TPA and the indicated antibodies . 009 Neutralization of TSLP completely abrogated the atopic dermatitis phenotype in TPA treated EPI−/− mice  . TPA-induced epidermal thickening was significantly reduced in TSLP or NKG2D suppressive conditions , without any differential effect on the number of PH3+ basal layer cells  . TSLP treatment reduced the transit time of BrdU + cells from the basal to the outermost granular layers since although the epidermis was thinner the proportion of labelled granular cells was unaffected  . Targeting the Rae-1/NKG2D/TSLP axis also reduced the number of dermal CD4+CD3+ lymphocytes , mast cells , eosinophils , and epidermal pustules in EPI−/− mice  . Furthermore , under TSLP suppressive conditions the number of epidermal DETCs was increased in EPI−/− skin  . Effects of TSLP and NKG2D inhibition and quantitation of cytokine levels in SCCs . CD4+ T cells  , mast cells  , eosinophils  , pustules  , and γδ T cells  per mm epidermis or mm2 dermis . Data are means ± SEM from 6 IgG and 3 α-TSLP-treated mice . Serum levels of TSLP in EPI−/− mice bearing papillomas smaller than 2 mm2 or at least one papilloma larger than 2 mm2 . 010 To examine whether the anti-inflammatory effects of blocking TSLP were mediated by down-regulating epidermal expression of inflammatory mediators  , we measured expression of representative type 1 and type 2 cytokines . TPA treatment induced a marked and significant release of type 2 cytokines  in the skin and serum of EPI−/− mice , and this was diminished by systemic administration of anti-TSLP antibodies  . EPI−/− SCCs expressed higher TSLP levels than WT SCC  , whereas there were no significant differences in IL-4 and IL-17  . In addition , EPI−/− mice bearing papillomas larger than 2 mm2 had higher levels of systemic TSLP than EPI−/− mice with smaller papillomas  . This is in contrast to the reported ability of TSLP to shrink tumours in Notch-deficient skin  , but in agreement with the potent tumorigenic effect of TSLP in breast and pancreatic cancers  . We conclude that targeting the Rae1/NKG2D/TSLP axis reverts the atopic phenotype observed in EPI−/− mice upon TPA treatment by interfering with the crosstalk between keratinocytes and immune cells . This was not due to a difference in DMBA-induced initiation , indicating that the tumour-protective effect was not mediated by cell-autonomous changes associated with acquisition of oncogenic mutations . Rather , short-term TPA treatment exacerbated atopic dermatitis in EPI−/− mice , resulting in a phenotype that shared key hallmarks of the acute phase of the disease in humans   . These hallmarks included epidermal acanthosis , spongiosis , hyperkeratosis , and parakeratosis , systemic type 2 cell expansion with a dramatic accumulation of CD4+ T cells , neutrophils , eosinophils and dermal mast cells , and elevation of serum IgE and TSLP levels . EPI−/− mice lack three cornified envelope proteins , resulting in a defective epidermal barrier . Topical TPA treatment elicits an exaggerated atopic response , characterized by altered keratinocyte differentiation and an enhanced inflammatory response . Epidermal production of TSLP and activation of the ligand-NKG2D pathway on immune cells are proposed to contribute to tumour protection . 011 The enhanced thickening of TPA-treated EPI−/− epidermis reflected an increase in the number of suprabasal , differentiated cell layers and defective desquamation . These changes in differentiation have previously been shown to be tumour-suppressive in oncogene-driven skin carcinogenesis  , consistent with our observation that EPI−/− mice are resistant to developing papillomas . Upon TPA treatment EPI−/− defective keratinocytes released high levels of chemokines and type 2-type 17 cytokines , including TSLP . This correlated with recruitment of innate immune cells , including mast cells , granulocytes  and adaptive immune cells , such as CD4+ T cells , which could potentially play a role in immuno-editing of nascent papillomas . Defective epidermal differentiation in concert with activation of innate and adaptive immune responses is known to create the first line of defence against physical , chemical , and toxic assaults in the skin  . DETCs are already in an activated state in untreated EPI−/− epidermis , as demonstrated by their round shape and reduced number  . We propose that this pre-activated , ‘alarmed’ condition enables EPI−/− skin to react more promptly and strongly to TPA treatment than WT skin . In contrast to EPI−/− mice , in mice that overexpress activin βA in the epidermis downregulation of DETCs only occurs after DMBA/TPA treatment and is linked to increased skin carcinogenesis  . The exaggerated TPA response in EPI−/− mice resulted in increased numbers of CD4+ T cells , neutrophils , mast cells , and eosinophils , and many of these leukocyte populations have been shown to be able to exert tumour protective effects , which could potentially bypass the function of γδ T cells . Targeting the Rae-1/NKG2D/TSLP axis , by blocking TSLP or NKG2D , suppressed the crosstalk between keratinocytes and immune cells and abrogated the atopic phenotype of TPA-treated EPI−/− skin , as seen by normalisation of epidermal differentiation and inflammation . In mice , epidermal overexpression of TSLP results in an atopic dermatitis phenotype characterized by epidermal hyperproliferation , acanthosis , spongiosis , and hyperkeratosis , as well as mast cell infiltration in the dermis  . TSLP has potent anti-tumour activity in skin carcinogenesis  . Consistent with this , TPA-treated EPI−/− skin produced higher levels of TSLP than WT skin , and was protected from chemically induced papilloma formation . Our findings demonstrate that the proposed role for Rae-1 and NKG2D in establishment of the lymphoid stress-surveillance response and consequent atopic phenotype also applies to the situation in which there is a defective epidermal barrier . Although two-stage chemical skin carcinogenesis has been used extensively to elucidate the role of individual components of the immune system  , ours is the first mouse model to link the lack of structural proteins and consequent defective epidermal barrier to cancer susceptibility . Mice deficient for envoplakin , periplakin , and involucrin  were generated as previously described  by interbreeding single knockout mice for envoplakin  , involucrin  , and periplakin  . Single knockout mice were generated and maintained on a variety of genetic backgrounds and as a result there was a potential contribution of Sv129 , C57BL/6 , BALB/c and nu/nu to EPI−/− animals . Since DMBA/TPA sensitivity is affected by genetic background  , DNA of 4 EPI−/− mice  was subjected to genome scanning by the Jackson Laboratory  . EPI−/− mice were primarily Sv129  and C57Bl/6  , with a small contribution of BALB/c  . 3 days later animals that did not show signs of hair regrowth received a topical application of 100 nmol  DMBA  in 200 μl acetone , followed by three times weekly applications of 6 nmol  of TPA  in 200 μl acetone for 15 weeks . As controls , mice  were subjected to the same protocol , but substituting DMBA or TPA with acetone . In some experiments , age and gender matched mice received 1 application of DMBA and/or 3 applications of TPA on alternating days . Skin was harvested 24 hr after DMBA painting or 48 hr after the last TPA treatment . The following species-specific antibodies conjugated with Alexafluor 488 or 555 or 647 were used at a dilution of 1:100: anti-CD3  , anti-CD4  , anti-CD8α  , anti-γδ TCR  , anti-F4/80  , anti-Ly6G  , anti-CD207  and anti-CD11b  . Hematoxylin and eosin–stained sections of skin and tumours were graded in a blinded manner by two experts in mouse skin pathology , as described previously  . When quantifying the number of cells that were positive for a particular marker , at least 6 fields per treated skin or tumour section were analysed . RNA was extracted from whole skin , tumours or epidermis that had been scraped from skin following heat treatment for 60 s at 56°C in PBS +10 mM EDTA or from cultured keratinocytes using the RNeasy mini kit  . Functional grade purified antibodies against CD4  , TSLP  , NKG2D  , LY6G  , IL-4  , and appropriate isotype controls  were injected intraperitoneally at a dose of 0 . TSLP  , IL-4  , and IgE  immunoassays were performed on mouse serum according to the manufacturer's instructions . For analysis of differences between WT and EPI−/− mouse tumour burden Mann Whitney testing was performed . For analysis of differences between WT and EPI−/− mouse tumour incidence a test of difference in proportions was used . "
"Dephosphorylation of translation initiation factor 2  terminates signalling in the mammalian integrated stress response  and has emerged as a promising target for modifying the course of protein misfolding diseases . The guanidines  have been proposed to exert protective effects against misfolding by interfering with eIF2α-P dephosphorylation through selective disruption of a PP1-PPP1R15A holophosphatase complex . Surprisingly , they proved inert in vitro affecting neither stability of the PP1-PPP1R15A complex nor substrate-specific dephosphorylation . Furthermore , eIF2α-P dephosphorylation , assessed by a kinase shut-off experiment , progressed normally in Sephin1-treated cells . Consistent with its role in defending proteostasis , Sephin1 attenuated the IRE1 branch of the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response . However , repression was noted in both wildtype and Ppp1r15a deleted cells and in cells rendered ISR-deficient by CRISPR editing of the Eif2s1 locus to encode a non-phosphorylatable eIF2α  . These findings challenge the view that guanidines restore proteostasis by interfering with eIF2α-P dephosphorylation . Diverse stress conditions activate kinases that phosphorylate eIF2α , resulting in attenuated rates of translation initiation of most mRNAs and increasing translation of a small group of mRNAs with special 5′ untranslated regions  . The latter encode potent transcription factors such as ATF4 that couple eIF2α phosphorylation to the Integrated Stress Response   , a transcriptional and translational program that adapts cells to stress and participates in diverse biological processes such as memory , immunity and metabolism  . Signalling in the ISR is terminated by eIF2α-P dephosphorylation . This requires the presence of a regulatory subunit , PPP1R15 , to direct the catalytic , PP1 subunit , to its specific substrate . Two mammalian genes encode PPP1R15 regulatory subunits . Ppp1r15b  encodes a constitutively expressed regulatory subunit  , whereas Ppp1r15a  encodes an ISR inducible regulatory subunit that contributes to a negative feed-back loop operative in the ISR  . A minimal rate of eIF2α-P dephosphorylation is an essential cellular function , as reflected in the severe phenotypes of Ppp1r15b mutation or deletion and in the very early lethality of compound Ppp1r15a;b deficient mice  . Interestingly , whilst deletion of the inducible Ppp1r15a gene results in sluggish recovery of protein synthesis during the waning phase of stress  , mice lacking any PPP1R15A-directed eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  are superficially indistinguishable from wildtype . Moreover , when challenged with tunicamycin , which causes unfolded protein stress in the endoplasmic reticulum by inhibiting N-linked glycosylation , homozygous Ppp1r15atm1Dron mice and cultured cells derived from them are relatively resistant to the toxin’s lethal effects  . This feature is plausibly attributed to sustained activity of the ISR in the Ppp1r15a mutant mice , which favours proteostasis by limiting the production of unfolded proteins under stress conditions  . The proteostasis-promoting features of interfering with PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation are also played out in the context of certain disease models associated with protein misfolding and proteotoxicity . Both the neuropathic phenotype associated with Schwann cell expression of a mutant misfolding-prone myelin constituent , P0S63∆ , and a mutant superoxide dismutase expressed in motor neurones are ameliorated by a concomitant dephosphorylation-defective Ppp1r15atm1Dron mutation  , and similar amelioration of inflammatory-mediated central nervous system demyelination is observed in the Ppp1r15atm1Dron mice  . These features have led to an interest in the therapeutic potential of targeting PPP1R15-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation with small molecule inhibitors . Early work led to discovery of salubrinal , a small molecule that increases levels of eIF2α-P and retards its dephosphorylation . Limitations of in vitro assays for substrate-specific PPP1R15-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  have all but precluded a biochemical approach to the problem , but a cell based search for proteostasis regulators suggested that the α2 adrenergic blocker Guanabenz , guanidine , might exert its beneficial effects on proteotoxicity by interfering with eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  . Importantly , biochemical characterization of Guanabenz and Sephin1 suggested that both disrupt the complex between PPP1R15A and PP1 , providing strong support for a mechanism of action that involves interfering with PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  , Figure 1C therein ) . A tripartite assay for human PPP1R15A-dependent eIF2α-P dephosphorylation . Cartoon representation of human PPP1R15A  . The minimal C-terminal peptide required for eIF2α-P dephosphorylation is outlined  and key residues in the PP1 and G-actin binding regions are annotated . Alignment of C-terminal active fragments of mammalian PPP1R15A and PPP1R15B  using ClustalX . Image of Coomassie-stained PhosTag-SDS-PAGE on which phosphorylated  and non-phosphorylated  forms of eIF2α from 20 min dephosphorylation reactions were resolved . The composition of the reaction , PPP1R15A533-624  , PPP1R15A325-636  , PP1c  and G-actin  are noted above and the fraction of dephosphorylated eIF2α is noted underneath each lane  . 003 Genetic analysis reveals that a regulatory PPP1R15 subunit is essential for eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in vivo , and over-expression of either PPP1R15A or PPP1R15B or merely their conserved C-terminal portion , is sufficient to deregulate eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in vivo and inhibit the ISR  . Though PPP1R15 regulatory subunits stably bind the catalytic subunit  , the resulting binary complex is devoid of specificity towards eIF2α-P . However , G-actin joins the PPP1R15-PP1 binary complex as an ancillary subunit to form a ternary complex endowed with substrate-specific eIF2α-P directed phosphatase activity , both in cells  and when constituted with pure components in vitro  . To explore in detail the mechanism of action of the guanidines we reconstructed PPP1R15A-PP1-G-actin-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in vitro with pure components . Using mutants that interfere with complex formation and function we established the correlation of enzymatic activity with the kinetic parameters of complex formation to develop an assay responsive to the stability of the core PPP1R15-PP1 binary interaction; the proposed target of Guanabenz and Sephin1 . The results of our inquiry , reported on below , question the role of destabilization of the eIF2α-P directed holophosphatase in the proteostatic effects of these compounds . PPP1R15A/GADD34 is a protein of >600 residues , but only the C-terminal 70 residues are necessary for substrate-specific dephosphorylation of eIF2α-P  . This active fragment is also the most conserved segment of the protein; both between homologues of PPP1R15A and with the paralogous PPP1R15B  . This region of the protein is natively unfolded  , attaining its structure upon binding the PP1 catalytic and the G-actin ancillary subunits  . For structural studies we found it convenient to co-express PPP1R15 and PP1 in bacteria  . However , the fixed 1:1 stoichiometry of the two subunits imparted by co-expression is unsuited to a detailed examination of the bimolecular affinities involved in complex formation or to the design of an assay sensitive to the stability of PPP1R15A-PP1 complex . To circumvent this limitation , we incorporated a highly soluble maltose-binding protein  moiety C-terminal to the natively-unstructured human PP1R15A active fragment . coli as a fusion protein with a cleavable N-terminal glutathione S-transferase  tag , GST-PPP1R15A-MBP remained soluble and when added as a purified protein in vitro  , imparted eIF2α-P dephosphorylation activity to reactions containing purified PP1 and G-actin  . Moreover , the solubilizing MBP tag enabled recovery not only of a human PPP1R15A active fragment  but also a much larger N-terminally extended fragment  . The minimal active fragment and the much longer N-terminally-extended PPP1R15A had similar activity in this assay  . Nonetheless the ability to purify a soluble , N-terminally extended PPP1R15A regulatory subunit expanded the possibilities to study more physiological models of PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  . We quantified the dependence of eIF2α-P dephosphorylation rates on both the concentration of the regulatory human PPP1R15A subunit  and on the ancillary G-actin subunit   . The latter values agreed with our previous measurements of G-actin’s stimulation of enzymatic activity   , whereas the EC50 of human PPP1R15A was within an order of magnitude of the affinity of human PPP1R15A for PP1 , as measured by isothermal titration calorimetry   . eIF2α-P dephosphorylation kinetics as a function of human PPP1R15A533-624 and G-actin concentration . Schema of the human PPP1R15A533-624 construct used . Coomassie-stained PhosTag-SDS-PAGE tracking the dephosphorylation of eIF2αP to eIF2α0 in 20 min dephosphorylation reactions constituted with eIF2αP  , PP1  , G-actin  and an escalating concentration of PPP1R15A533-624 . Lower panel: Semi-log10 plot of the initial velocity of eIF2αP dephosphorylation as a function of PPP1R15A533-624 concentration derived from three repeats  . The EC50 for PPP1R15A533-624 was calculated using the agonist fitting function on GraphPad Prism V7 . As in ‘B’ but dephosphorylation of eIF2αP to eIF2α0 was carried out in the presence of a fixed concentration of PPP1R15A533-624  and an escalating concentration of G-actin . 004 Previous studies have identified mutations in PPP1R15 that abolish substrate-specific dephosphorylation in vitro and block PPP1R15’s ability to repress the ISR , when expressed in vivo . The human PPP1R15AV556E mutation alters a key residue , part of the RVxF motif involved in binding of diverse regulatory subunits to PP1  ; its presence abolished all PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  . Two previously-identified mutations in the C-terminal extension of PPP1R15A - the portion that interacts with the G-actin ancillary subunit   - also abolished all PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  . These findings establish the dependence of the tripartite assay described above on features known to be important for PPP1R15 function . eIF2α-P dephosphorylation by ternary complexes constituted with human PPP1R15A  V556E , PPP1R15A  W582A or PPP1R15A  F592A . Coomassie-stained PhosTag-SDS-PAGE tracking the dephosphorylation of eIF2αP to eIF2α0 as in Figure 2 above , but with PP1 , G-actin  and an escalating concentration of mutant human PPP1R15A  V556E . The plot of initial velocity as a function of PPP1R15A  V556E derived from three repeats  is below the SDS-PAGE image . As in ‘A’ above but using human PPP1R15A  W582A and G-actin   . As in ‘A’ above but using human PPP1R15A  F592A and G-actin   . 005 A fourth mutation tested affects a residue whose counterpart in human PPP1R15BR658C results in a syndromatic form of diabetes mellitus . Consistent with the destabilizing effect of this mutation on PP1 binding  , its presence in human PPP1R15AR578A resulted in a ~4 fold increase in EC50 for eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  . The mutation also affected the maximal stimulation afforded by human PPP1R15AR578A , as even at saturating concentrations of regulatory subunit , eIF2α-P dephosphorylation reactions assembled with the mutant were three times slower than those assembled with the wildtype  . The human PPP1R15AR578A mutation does not appear to have a major effect on the stability of the G-actin containing ternary complex , as the EC50 for G-actin  was relatively unaffected  . eIF2α-P dephosphorylation by ternary complexes constituted with human PPP1R15A  R578A . Coomassie-stained PhosTag-SDS-PAGE tracking the dephosphorylation of eIF2αP in a 20 min reaction , as in Figure 2 and 3 above , but with an escalating concentration of mutant human PPP1R15A  R578A . The plot of initial velocity as a function of PPP1R15A  R578A derived from three repeats  is below the SDS-PAGE image . The EC50 for PPP1R15A  R578A was calculated using the agonist fitting curve in GraphPad Prism V7 . Time-course of eIF2αP dephosphorylation using a low concentration of PP1  , saturating concentrations of G-actin  , and wildtype  or mutant human PPP1R15A  R578A  . As in ‘A’ above but with saturating concentration of PPP1R15A  R578A  and escalating concentration of G-actin . 006 The features of the human PPP1R15AR578A mutant noted above suggest that the tripartite assay is sensitive not only to the affinity of the three components for one another but also to subtle structural features of the holophosphatase . PPP1R15A533-624 was biotinylated on a single lysine residue of an AviTag  added between the cleavable GST tag and PPP1R15A peptide  and the biotinylated protein was immobilized on a streptavidin-derivatized BLI biosensor tip . The biotinylated PPP1R15A533-624 ligand showed a robust 1:1 bimolecular interaction , with pure PP1 , yielding a koff = 0 . The higher affinity of PPP1R15 for PP1 observed here , compared to isothermal titration calorimetry  measurements of Choy et al . might reflect the contribution of contacts made by residues C-terminal to PPP1R15AL567 , which are present in the construct used here , but absent from the one used in the ITC measurements  . Cooperativity provided by G-actin  and steric hindrance from probe components might have contributed to the 3–5 fold lower value of the PPP1R15A EC50 for eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in the enzymatic assay  compared to the Kd observed by BLI . Schema of the biotinylated human PPP1R15A533-624 immobilized onto the BLI biosensor tip . Plot of Bio-Layer Interferometry  signal as a function of time in a representative experiment  in which immobilized PPP1R15A533-624 was reacted with PP1  in solution  . As in ‘B’ above , but the immobilized PPP1R15A533-624 was first exposed to PP1  , before being exposed to a solution of both PP1  and G-actin  . 007 To gauge the affinity of the ancillary G-actin subunit for the complex , we first assembled a binary complex between the biotinylated PPP1R15A533-624 ligand  and a saturating concentration of PP1 and then measured the BLI signal induced by addition of G-actin . The human PPP1R15AV556E mutation , affecting the RVxF motif , abolished all measureable association with PP1 , but had no effect on the kinetics of G-actin binding . Conversely , the human PPP1R15AF592A mutation markedly enfeebled G-actin binding but had no effect on PP1 binding  . Together , these observations confirm the ability of PPP1R15A to engage PP1 and G-actin independently , via the N- and C-terminal parts of its active portion . Despite their strong detrimental effects on enzymatic activity  , neither the PPP1R15AR578A nor the PPP1R15AW582A mutations had a major effect on the kinetics of PP1 or G-actin binding  . The effect of human PPP1R15A mutations on the affinity of the components of the tripartite holophosphatase for one another analysed by Bio-Layer Interferometry  . Plot of Bio-Layer Interferometry  signal as a function of time in a representative experiment  in which immobilized wildtype and indicated mutant PPP1R15A533-624 proteins were reacted with PP1  in solution  . As in ‘A’ above , but the immobilized wildtype and mutant PPP1R15A533-624 probes were first reacted with PP1  , before being exposed to a solution of both PP1  and G-actin  . 008 Das and colleagues previously reported that addition of 50 µM Sephin1 to tissue culture media disrupts the PPP1R15A-PP1 complex recovered from cells  . To determine if these observations correlate with an effect of Sephin1 on the complex formed in vitro between PPP1R15A533-624 and PP1 , we sourced Sephin1 and confirmed its purity and identity by reverse phase HPLC and mass spectrometry  . When added to the BLI assay at a concentration of 50 µM  , Sephin1 had no measureable effect on either the association or dissociation phase of the assay  . Sephin1’s effect on PP1-human PPP1R15A association analysed by Bio-Layer Interferometry  . Plot of BLI signal as a function of time of a representative experiment  performed with immobilized PPP1R15A533-624  and PP1   . Where indicated , the analyte was mixed with Sephin1  , G-actin  and an escalating concentration of human PPP1R15A325-636 . A schema of the human PPP1R15A325-635 construct is shown above the gel . A semi-log10 plot of the initial velocity of eIF2αP dephosphorylation as a function of PPP1R15A325-636 concentration derived from three repeats of the experiment is shown below . The EC50 for PPP1R15A325-636 was calculated using agonist fitting function on GraphPad Prism V7 . As in ‘A’ above , but in the presence of a fixed concentration of PPP1R15A325-636 below the EC50  and escalating concentrations of Sephin1 . As above , triplicate reactions of eIF2α-P dephosphorylation conducted in the absence or presence of Sephin1 or the related compound , Guanabenz . Sephin1’s effect on the eIF2α-P dephosphorylation activity of the mouse PP1-PPP1R15A-G-actin holophosphatase in vitro . Coomassie-stained PhosTag-SDS-PAGE tracking the dephosphorylation of eIF2αP in 20 min reactions constituted with mouse PPP1R15A273-657 and escalating concentrations of Sephin1 . A schema of the mouse PPP1R15A273-657 construct is shown above the gel and a semi-log10 plot of the initial velocity as a function of Sephin1 concentration is shown below . 011 Sephin1’s role as a proteostasis promoting agent was explored in cultured CHO-K1 cells containing reporters for both the ISR   and the branch of the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response  mediated by IRE1   . Previous studies have emphasized the dominance of translational recovery in the physiological action of PPP1R15A , such that Ppp1r15aKO attenuates both the burden of protein misfolding  and the response to it  . In keeping with these ideas and with the findings of Das and colleagues  , Sephin1 attenuated the activity of both UPR pathways in cells exposed to tunicamycin; an inhibitor of N-linked glycosylation , that promotes misfolding of newly-synthesized proteins  . Though observed only over a narrow concentration range of tunicamycin  and at relatively high concentrations of the drug  , Sephin1’s effects in this assay can be reconciled with a mechanism involving a net reduction of protein synthesis; as suggested by Das and colleagues . Sephin1 also inhibited induction of the ISR in response to histidinol  , an agent that interferes with tRNA charging and thereby activates the eIF2α kinase GCN2  without affecting protein folding . Sephin1 broadly attenuates the ER stress response in cultured CHO cells . Two-dimensional plot of the fluorescence signals derived from CHO cells stably transduced with both a CHOP::GFP reporter  and a XBP1::Turquoise reporter  analysed by flow cytometry . Color-coded signals from untreated cells  or cells exposed to a low concentration of tunicamycin  alone  or together with Sephin1  are superimposed . As in ‘A’ above , but the cells were exposed to histidinol , an ISR inducer that does not promote unfolded protein stress in the ER and does not activate the XBP1::Turquoise reporter . Concentration-dependence of the response of cultured cells to tunicamycin and Sephin1 . Histograms of distribution of the fluorescence intensity of the CHOP:GFP reporter  and XBP1s:turquoise reporter  in populations of untreated CHO cells and cells exposed for 20 hr to the indicated concentration of tunicamycin in the absence and presence of Sephin1  analysed by flow cytometry . As in ‘A’ above but the cells were either untreated or exposed to a fixed concentration of tunicamycin  and varying concentrations of Sephin1 . 013 To probe deeper into this matter , we exploited an in vivo assay that monitors eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in cells . In this kinase shut-off experiment   , cultured cells are first exposed to a brief , 30 min pulse of thapsigargin , which rapidly activates the eIF2α kinase PERK and builds levels of eIF2α-P , and then exposed to a PERK kinase inhibitor  . The resulting decay in the eIF2α-P signal reflects its dephosphorylation . To minimize the contribution of other kinases to the eIF2α-P signal , the experiment was performed in cells lacking GCN2  , which we inactivated in the CHO-K1 cells by CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing . Normally , the dephosphorylation of eIF2α-P is a rapid process , complete in 60 min  . It was markedly delayed by inclusion of jasplakinolide  , which depletes the pool of G-actin  , thereby depriving the PPP1R15 subunits of an essential co-factor , as observed previously  . eIF2αP dephosphorylation in untreated and Sephin1-treated cells . Schema of the kinase shut-off experiment used to evaluate the decay of the eIF2αP signal in cells . Thapsigargin  was added at t = −30 min to the media to activate PERK kinase and induce eIF2α phosphorylation . A PERK kinase inhibitor , PERKi/GSK260414A  , was added at t = 0 to visualize eIF2αP dephosphorylation at specified times . Immunoblot of the time-dependent changes in the eIF2αP signal of compound-mutant Ppp1r15bKO; Gcn2KO CHO-K1 cells  treated as in ‘A’ . Where indicated , the cells were additionally exposed to Sephin1  or the actin-polymerizing agent Jasplakinolide  , which inhibits eIF2αP-dephosphorylation by sequestering G-actin . The immunoblot of eIF2α  serves as a loading control . Plot of the eIF2αP signal ( normalised to the value at t = 0 of the vehicle only  sample ) as a function of time derived from five independent experiments . Analysis of Sephin1 in a different Ppp1r15b mutant cell line . Schema of the procedure to create dual reporter  compound mutant Gcn2KO;Ppp1r15bKO CHO-K1 cells using the CRISPR-Cas9 system . The two coding exons of wildtype hamster Ppp1r15b are denoted as is the region encoding the PP1-binding RVxF motif  and the positions of the guide RNAs used to direct the Cas9-mediated double strand breaks . Two-dimensional plot and histograms of the fluorescent signal of the CHOP::GFP and XBP1s::Turquoise reporters in compound Ppp1r15bKO; Gcn2KO CHO-K1 cells  . Where indicated , the cells were exposed to a low concentration of tunicamycin  alone or together with Sephin1  . As in ‘Figure 10B' but using Ppp1r15bKO; Gcn2KO  . 015 Together , PPP1R15A and PPP1R15B account for the bulk of eIF2α-P dephosphorylation activity of mammalian cells  , but their relative contribution to the process in any given circumstance is unknown . Therefore , to adapt this assay to measure Sephin1’s effect on PPP1R15A-mediated eIF2α-P dephosphorylation , it was essential to inactivate the gene encoding PPP1R15B , leaving PPP1R15A as the sole regulatory subunit of the eIF2α-P phosphatase . CRISPR-Cas9 mediated gene editing was used to create two different GCN2KO; Ppp1r15bKO compound-mutant CHO-K1 cells  . As expected , the GCN2KO; Ppp1r15bKO compound-mutant CHO-K1 cells retained their responsiveness to Sephin1  . However , in this experimental system dependent solely on PPP1R15A , the time-dependent decline of the eIF2α-P signal  yielded a time constant of 0 . eIF2α-P dephosphorylation proceeded rapidly in tunicamycin-treated cells . However , Sephin1 had no inhibitory effect on the rate of dephosphorylation . This experiment reveals that under conditions in which Sephin1 exerts its proteostasis-promoting activities , it does not affect rates of eIF2a-P dephosphorylation . To follow up on this matter , both copies of the gene encoding PPP1R15A were inactivated by CRISPR-Cas9 in the reporter containing CHO-K1 cells  . Inactivation was confirmed by loss of the PPP1R15A signal in immunoblot of lysates from stressed mutant cells  . Sephin1 retained its ability to attenuate the response of both the XBP1s::Turquoise and the CHOP::GFP reporter in tunicamycin treated PPP1R15A null cells  . These observations suggest that Sephin1 also exerts its proteostatic effect  in cells lacking PPP1R15A . Cells lacking PPP1R15A remain responsive to Sephin1 . Immunoblot of endogenous PPP1R15A recovered by immunoprecipitation  from untreated and tunicamycin exposed parental cells and cells from two different Ppp1r15aKO CHO-K1 clones . The position of PPP1R15A is indicated and the immunoglobulin heavy-chain is marked with an asterisks . The immunoblot of eIF2α  serves as a loading control for the content of cellular protein in the lysates . Two-dimensional plot and histograms of the fluorescent signal of the CHOP::GFP and XBP1s::Turquoise reporters in the two Ppp1r15aKO CHO-K1 clones . Where indicated , the cells were exposed to a low concentration of tunicamycin  alone or together with Sephin1  . Mutant Ppp1r15a alleles . Schema of the procedure to create dual reporter  Ppp1r15aKO CHO-K1 cells using the CRISPR-Cas9 system . The two coding exons of wildtype hamster Ppp1r15a are denoted as is the region encoding the crucial RVxF motif  and the positions of the guide RNAs used to direct the Cas9-mediated double strand breaks . 017 Next , we used CRISPR-Cas9-mediated homologous recombination to introduce a site-specific mutation into the Eif2s1 locus , to encode an ISR-blocking eIF2αS51Amutation in the endogenous gene  . Surprisingly , Sephin1 retained its ability to attenuate the XBP1s::Turquoise reporter in tunicamycin-treated eIF2αS51Amutant cells  . As CHOP activation is highly dependent on the ISR  , activity of the CHOP::GFP reporter was strongly attenuated in mutant eIF2αS51Acells . Nonetheless , it is notable that residual activation of the reporter by tunicamycin  , was also attenuated by Sephin1  . ISR-deficient Eif2s1S51A  cells retain their responsiveness to Sephin1 . Schematic representation of procedure used to create dual reporter  Eif2s1S51A  CHO-K1 cells using CRISPR-Cas9 system . Immunoblot of CHO-K1 cell lysates using anti- eIF2αP  , anti- eIF2α  and anti-BiP  antibodies . Two-fold more cell lysate was loaded onto lanes 5 and 6 to compensate for the lower eIF2α content of the haploid mutant Eif2s1S51A cells . Two-dimensional plot and histograms of the fluorescent signal of the CHOP::GFP and XBP1s::Turquoise reporters in the Eif2s1S51A CHO-K1 cells . Where indicated , the cells were exposed to a low concentration of tunicamycin  alone or together with Sephin1  . Note the blunted expression of CHOP::GFP wrought by the ISR-defect imposed by the Eif2s1S51A mutation . The role of the eIF2α-P-dependent ISR in defending against unfolded protein stress is well supported by genetic and pharmacological experiments  . By retarding its dephosphorylation , the primary consequence of eliminating PPP1R15A is to prolong the duration of the eIF2α-P signal in stress response scenarios  and to alter the repertoire of mRNA translation  . Therefore , the finding that cells and mice lacking PPP1R15A are relatively resistant to pharmacological and genetic models associated with unfolded protein stress in the endoplasmic reticulum  has engendered a specific interest in targeting the PPP1R15A-containing phosphatase complex for inhibition , as a means for accessing the therapeutic potential of enhanced ISR signalling . Sephin1 and Guanabenz , compounds previously proposed to exert their proteostatic effects by disrupting the essential PP1-PPP1R15A complex and inhibiting eIF2α-P dephosphorylation  are found here to have no effect in in vitro enzymatic assays dependent on the formation of a PP1-PPP1R15A complex . Sephin1 likewise proved inert in a Bio-Layer Interferometry assay that measured directly the affinity of PPP1R15A and PP1 for one another . Furthermore , we find that Sephin1 does not interfere with eIF2α-P dephosphorylation in cells  and that Sephin1 retains its ability to attenuate the impact of a challenge to proteostasis even in cells lacking PPP1R15A , or in ISR-defective Eifs1S51A cells . These observations suggest that the previously-reported attenuation of the recovery of PP1 in complex with PPP1R15A , when both were purified from lysates of cells treated with Sephin1 was unlikely to be a direct consequence of Sephin1 interference with complex formation or of destabilization by Sephin1 of a pre-existing complex and also call into question the importance of any indirect disruption of the PP1-PPP1R15A complex that may occur in vivo and remain undetected by our assays . Our findings , questioning whether Sephin1 attains its proteostatic activity by inhibiting the PPP1R15A-containing eIF2α-P directed holophosphatase , and similar concerns raised by the Peti and Shenolikar labs  , do nothing to diminish the attractiveness of PPP1R15A inhibition as a potential means for defending proteostasis . Similarly , there is nothing in our study to question the beneficial effects reported for Sephin1 in mouse models of neurodegeneration  nor we do not challenge the enhanced susceptibility of Ppp1r15bKO cells to the guanidine , Guanabenz  . However , our findings that Sephin1 exerts its effects in CHO-K1 cells lacking PPP1R15A or in ISR-defective Eifs1S51A cells raise doubts as to whether these phenomena were attained via inhibition of PPP1R15A or indeed modulation of the ISR . Crystal structures of the PPP1R15  -PP1 and the related PNUTS/PPP1R10-PP1 and spinophilin/PPP1R9B-PP1 complexes reveal that both the residues corresponding to human PPP1R15AV556  and the conserved arginine  insert deeply into the surface of the PP1 subunit  . The contrast between the dramatic effect of the PPP1R15AV556E mutation and the more modest effect of the human PPP1R15AR578A mutation on the PPP1R15A-PP1 complex may reflect a role for the former early in the pathway to complex assembly  . It is therefore possible that inhibitors of the eIF2α-P holophosphatase might disrupt complex assembly , without affecting the stability or activity of a preformed complex . However , Sephin1 is unlikely to belong to such a category , as it failed to exert an inhibitory effect on enzymatic activity or on the BLI signal even when added to pure PPP1R15A , before addition of PP1 and G-actin . But other compounds that remain to be found might selectively disrupt the assembly of the PPP1R15A-PP1 complex by binding to and stabilizing an intermediate step in its formation . Similarly instructive is the human PPP1R15AW582A mutation , which eliminates all detectable selectivity of PPP1R15-holophosphatases for eIF2α-P   without affecting the kinetics of the bimolecular association of PPP1R15A with PP1 or G-actin . These features suggest that the side chain of W582 - a residue conserved throughout the PPP1R15 family - may have a special role in aligning PP1 and G-actin to form a composite surface with affinity for the substrate , without contributing measurably to the stability of the tripartite holophosphatase . However , features of the PPP1R15A-PP1-G-actin holophosphatase noted above suggest ways in which eIF2α-P dephosphorylation might indeed be selectively targeted by small molecules . In vitro assays for selective eIF2α-P dephosphorylation , such as the one described here , might prove useful in discovery of small molecules with such a mechanism of action . 019Lab numberLab nameDescriptionReferenceUK105eIF2a-NM_pET30aHis6-tagged mouse eIF2a 1–185 pET-30a  ""PMID 15341733UK168PerkKD-pGEX4T-1Bacterial expression plasmid for mouse PERK kinase domainPMID 9930704UK622PGV_PP1G_1–323_V1Bacterial expression plasmid forfull-length PP1 phosphatase catalytic domainPMID 25774600UK1359pSpCas9  −2A-GFPMammalian expression of GFP-tagged Cas9 and single guide RNA to introduce double strand breaks  PMID 24157548UK1367pSpCas9  −2A-PuroMammalian expression of Puror-tagged Cas9 and single guide RNA to introduce double strand breaks  PMID 24157549UK1497CHO_EIF2K4_guideA*_pSpCas9  −2A-PuroPuro-tagged CRISPR for targeting human CHO GCN2  geneThis paperUK1507CHO_Eif2s1_guideC_pSpCas9  −2A-PuroA single guide gRNA plasmid for eIF2a  locusThis paperUK1599CHO_PPP1R15A_guide1_pSpCas9  −2A-GFPA single guide gRNA plasmid for GADD34 locusThis paperUK1600CHO_PPP1R15A_guide2_pSpCas9  −2A-GFPA single guide gRNA plasmid for GADD34 locusThis paperUK1610pSpCas9  −2A-mCherry_V2modified pSpCas9  −2A vector to express mCherry together with guide RNA and Cas9This paperUK1645GST_Myd116_273–657_malE_pGEX_TEVBacterial expression of GST-mouse GADD34 273–657 -MBPThis paperUK1677huPPP1R15A_325_636_malE_pGEX_TEVBacterial expression of GST-human GADD34- MBPThis paperUK1881EcBirA_WT_pGEX_TEV  Bacterial expression of fastidious E . coli BirA biotin ligase  This paperUK1897mPP1G_1–323_pGEX_TEV_AviTag  Bacterial expression GST_TEV_AviTag_FL mPP1G with non-tempaled C-term LEThis paperUK1920huPPP1R15A_533_624_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTag  Bacterial-expression plasmid for N-tern AviTagged human GADD34 533–624This paperUK1921huPPP1R15A_325_636_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTag  Bacterial-expression plasmid for N-tern AviTagged human GADD34 325–624This paperUK1992huPPP1R15A_I596A_533_624_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTagBacterial-expression plasmid for N-term AviTagged human GADD34 533–624 , I596A mutationThis paperUK1993huPPP1R15A_V556E_R578A_533_624_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTagBacterial-expression plasmid for N-term AviTagged human GADD34 533–624 , v556e R578A mutationThis paperUK1994huPPP1R15A_V556E_533_624_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTagBacterial-expression plasmid for N-term AviTagged human GADD34 533–624 , v556e mutationThis paperUK1995huPPP1R15A_F592A_533_624_malE_pGEX_TEV_AviTagBacterial-expression plasmid for N-term AviTagged human GADD34 533–624 , F592A mutationThis paperUK2081CHO_PPP1R15B_guideA_pSpCas9  −2A-mCherry_V2guide targeting cgPPP1R15B  gene 5' end of exon1This paperUK2082CHO_PPP1R15B_guideB_pSpCas9  −2A-mCherry_V2guide targeting cgPPP1R15B  gene 3' end of exon 1This paper Actin was purified from rabbit muscle according to  as modified by  . Expression plasmids for PPP1R15A  variants contained ampicillin resistance marker , N-terminal GST tag and C-terminal maltose binding protein  tag   . PP1   was purified as above , with the following modifications: LB media cultures were supplemented with MnCl2 , after TEV cleavage proteins were buffer exchanged using a 2 mL desalting column in HEPES buffer and re-bound to glutathione sepharose 4B beads to remove free GST tag . Phosphorylated eIF2α was encoded by an expression plasmid containing N-terminal His-Tag and kanamycin resistance marker   . Growth , induction and purification was as described for PPP1R15A , with the following changes: beads used were Ni-NTA  to bind His-tag , lysis buffer contained 20 mM imidazole and elution buffer contained 500 mM imidazole instead of glutathione . Drugs used: Sephin1  , tautomycin  , Guanabenz  , salubrinal  Dephosphorylation reactions were conducted as described  . Under these conditions , the instantaneous velocity  is proportional to instantaneous substrate concentration and the equivalent velocity is obtained with the equation below , derived from the integrated rate equation for first order kinetics:Vi=ln0f∗0Δt∗ Where Vi is the initial velocity  , 0 and f are , respectively , the substrate concentrations at the beginning and end of the reaction , Δt is the time interval of the reaction and  is the concentration of enzyme . However , for each cell type , there were significant differences  between untreated cells versus stressed cells and also between the latter and cells co-treated with Sephin1 . Antibodies used: rabbit anti-PPP1R15A  , rabbit anti-eIF2α-P  , chicken anti-BiP  , mouse anti-eIF2α  Drugs used: tunicamycin  , thapsigargin  , L-Histidinol  , PERKi  Sephin1  CHO-K1 cells were plated in 10 cm dishes until they reached 80% confluency , at which point they were treated with 2 . For immunoprecipitation , 15 μL Protein A-Sepharose beads  per sample where preincubated with anti-PPP1R15A antibody . Sephin1  or DMSO was added to the media for either 30 min or 5 hr before application of thapsigargin  or tunicamycin  to induce stress by activation of PERK kinase . The PP1R15A-PP1-dependent decay of the eIF2α-P signal  was tracked by stopping the reaction at different time points by addition of ice-cold PBS . eIF2α-P and total eIF2α were detected by immunoblot . ImageJ  was used to quantify signal intensity and one phase decay model was used  to analyse the rate decay of eIF2αP dephosphorylation . "
"Somatosensory stimuli guide and shape behavior , from immediate protective reflexes to longer-term learning and higher-order processes related to pain and touch . The strategy we present here overcomes these difficulties , achieving ‘remote touch’ with spatiotemporally precise and dynamic optogenetic stimulation by projecting light to a small defined area of skin . We mapped behavioral responses in freely behaving mice with specific nociceptor and low-threshold mechanoreceptor inputs . In nociceptors , sparse recruitment of single-action potentials shapes rapid protective pain-related behaviors , including coordinated head orientation and body repositioning that depend on the initial body pose . The strategy can be used to define specific behavioral repertoires , examine the timing and nature of reflexes , and dissect sensory , motor , cognitive , and motivational processes guiding behavior . Cutaneous stimuli are used to study a wide range of neurobiological mechanisms since neurons densely innervating skin function to provide diverse information as the body interfaces with its immediate environment . These afferents maintain the integrity of the body by recruiting rapid sensorimotor responses , optimize movement through feedback loops , provide teaching signals that drive learning , and update internal models of the environment through higher-order perceptual and cognitive processes  . Cutaneous stimulation in freely moving mice often requires the experimenter to manually touch or approach the skin . For example , intense stimuli can co-activate fast-conducting low-threshold afferents that encode innocuous stimuli simultaneously with more slowly conducting high-threshold afferents  . Behavioral assays have traditionally focused on a snapshot of the stimulated body part rather than dynamics of behavior involving the body as a whole  . The strategy elicits time-locked individual action potentials in genetically targeted afferents innervating a small stimulation field targeted to the skin . The utility of the system was demonstrated by precisely stimulating nociceptors , or Aβ low threshold mechanoreceptors  , in freely behaving mice to map behavioral outputs at high speed . We dissect discrete behavioral components of local paw responses , head orienting and body repositioning behaviors , and determine how these specific behavioral components relate to precise somatosensory inputs . The design of the optical strategy had eight criteria:  that somatosensory stimuli are delivered non-invasively without touching or approaching the mice;  localization of stimuli are spatially precise and accurate  ;  freely moving mice can be targeted anywhere within a relatively large  arena;  stimuli can be controlled with a computer interface from outside the behavior room;  stimulation patterns , lines , and points are generated by rapidly scanning the stimuli between predefined locations;  stimulation size can be controlled down to ≥150 μm diameter;  stimuli are temporally precise to control individual action potentials using sub-millisecond time-locked pulses; and  behavioral responses are recorded at high speed at the stimulated site and across the whole body simultaneously . The stimulation path uses two mirror galvanometers to remotely target the laser stimulation to any location on a large glass stimulation floor . The optical power density could be kept equal between these different stimulation spot sizes . 2 μm while minimizing variability in laser stimulation spot sizes across the large stimulation plane  . The galvanometers allow rapid small angle step  responses to scan the laser beam between adjacent positions and shape stimulation patterns using brief laser pulses  . Custom software  was developed to remotely control the laser stimulation position , trigger laser pulses , synchronize galvanometer jumps , and trigger the camera acquisition  . The camera acquisition path was used to manually target the location of the laser stimulation pulse  ; the path was descanned through the galvanometers so that the alignment between the laser and camera is fixed  . High signal-to-noise recordings were obtained using near-infrared frustrated total internal reflection  in the glass stimulation floor  . If a medium  is within a few hundred microns of the glass , it causes reflection of the evanescent wave and this signal decreases non-linearly with distance from the glass such that very minor movements of the paw can be detected . A second camera was used to record the entire arena and capture behaviors involving the whole body before and after stimulation . To validate the strategy , we first crossed Trpv1-IRES-Cre  and R26-CAG-LSL-ChR2-tdTomato mice to obtain a line  in which ChR2 is selectively expressed in a broad class of nociceptors innervating glabrous skin  . When mice were idle  , a time-locked laser pulse was targeted to the hind paw . For example , a single , small 1 ms laser pulse initiated a behavioral response at 29 ms , progressing to complete removal of the hind paw from the glass floor just 5 ms later  . We probed multiple sites across the plantar surface and digits and found that the hind paw heel gave the most robust responses  . Littermates that did not express the Cre recombinase allele confirmed that the laser stimulation did not produce non-specific responses . Fast protective withdrawal behaviors can be triggered by the first action potential arriving at the spinal cord from cutaneous nociceptors . The same transient optogenetic stimulus  , or a pinprick stimulus  , initiates behavior before a second action potential would have time to arrive at the spinal cord . That the first action potential can drive protective behaviors places constraints on how stimulus intensity can be encoded , suggesting that the total population of nociceptors firing a single-action potential can provide information as a ""Boolean array . "" Varying the pulse duration with nanosecond precision influences the probability of each nociceptor generating a single-action potential within the stimulation site . Firstly , we find that the total area of stimulated skin determines the behavioral response probability , such that the larger the nociceptive input the larger the response probability  . Specifically , seven spatially displaced small sub-threshold stimulations could reproduce the response probability of a single large stimulation that was approximately seven times their size . Time-locking the stimulus enabled us to examine the hind paw responses with high temporal resolution . The nociceptive input size influenced the behavioral response latency: for example , a 3 ms pulse resulted in response latencies of 27 ± 1 ms , 30 ± 2 ms , 33 ± 5 ms , and 112 ± 46 ms for spot sizes S8 , S7 , S6 , and S5 , respectively  . The rank order of response latencies follows the nociceptive input size for both pulse durations , and they fit well with log-log regressions  . Once a hind limb motor response was initiated , it developed rapidly , lifting from the glass with rise times that show the vigor of the motor response was also dependent on nociceptive input size  . Even the smallest of nociceptive inputs still produced a large fraction of full withdrawal responses , despite decreases in response probability  . These non-local behaviors theoretically serve several protective purposes: to investigate and identify the potential source of danger , move the entire body away from this danger , attend to the affected area of the body  and to maintain balance  . Whole-body movements were quantified as motion energy  and high-speed recordings show this initiated with a mean response latency of 30 ± 1 ms , with the first movement bout displaying a mean duration of 136 ± 14 ms   . The magnitude of whole-body movement increased with the stimulation spot size  . This indicates that global behaviors are also proportional to the relative size of the nociceptive input; the recruited nociceptors firing a single-action potential  . To dissect specific components of these behaviors , we implemented DeepLabCut  by training a network using frames from the high-speed  videos to track 18 user-defined body parts across the mouse  . The high-speed video recordings of stimulation trials were analyzed using this network . Specific nociceptive input at the hind paw  causes behavior that initiates simultaneously across the body . Inspection of the movements of each body part relative to the baseline pose  shows fast outward movement of the stimulated and contralateral hind paws , and concomitant initiation of head orientation  . PC1 is dominated by hind paw translation , PC2 by head and body movement , and PC3 by head orientation  . The stimulated paw started moving at 29 ± 1 ms , the contralateral hind paw at 34 ± 4 ms , and the nose at 33 ± 2 ms  . With this intense stimulus , only in 6% of trials did the hind paws or single body parts move alone , although the magnitude of the head movement varied between trials . Examining the relative distance between the nose and stimulated hind paw shows a reliably short latency  , indicating that these responses are driven by Aδ-nociceptor input rather than more slowly conducting C-fibers . A diversity of responses was observed: the head and stimulated paw move closer together in some trials and in others moved further apart  . This could result from the head moving towards or away from the stimulated paw but also the stimulated paw moving backwards as the body rotates . The presence of head orientation suggests that a brief nociceptive input can rapidly generate a coordinated spatially organized behavioral response . Protective behaviors can be statistically categorized  and computational discrimination of high-speed hind paw responses used as a score of pain  . To demonstrate the utility of the system in the broader context of somatosensation , we crossed Slc17a7-IRES2-Cre-D  mice with R26-CAG-LSL-ChR2-tdTomato mice to generate a line  that express ChR2 in LTMRs  . A recent detailed anatomical and physiological characterization of Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice further confirmed that in DRG neurons , ChR2 is restricted to broad class of myelinated Aβ-LTMRs  . Here , we find that a single 3 ms stimulus  precisely delivered to the hind paw of these mice rarely elicited hind paw responses  , with the earliest response occurring at 206 ms after stimulation  , which is an order of magnitude slower than we observed in TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice  . Trains of five pulses , however , frequently elicited responses , showing mean paw withdrawal probabilities of 0 . Increasing stimulation frequency to 20 Hz did not result in higher withdrawal probabilities , which may reflect ChR2 desensitization , rather than a physiological process  . While the responses at first seem to be frequency-dependent  , inspection of recordings indicated that these occurred after the second or third pulse in most trials , regardless of stimulation frequency  . This observation suggests that response probability is likely driven by pulse summation , rather than by stimulation frequency . Indeed , we find that the probabilities and latencies can be explained by the probability sum rule , using the values for a single pulse to predict the values for five pulses  . In contrast to the TRPV1Cre::ChR2 line , whole-body behaviors in response to optogenetic stimulation of Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice were subtle: visual inspection of high-speed whole-body behavior videos revealed that responses were mostly limited to small hind paw lifts or shifts towards the center of the body in cases where the stimulated paw was initially further away from the body . Interestingly , we observed that whisking and , to a lesser extent , circular movements of the upheld forepaws would precede hind paw responses and initiate as early as the first pulse , even in trials that would not proceed to withdrawal . The approach can remotely deliver spatiotemporally accurate optogenetic stimuli to the skin with predefined size , geometry , duration , timing , and location , while simultaneously monitoring behavior in the millisecond timescale . As an example , we combine this with DeepLabCut  , for markerless tracking of individual body parts to further dissect specific components of whole-body responses . We provide approaches to map behavioral responses to defined afferent inputs across the spectrum of somatosensory modalities  . We propose that the aggregate number of first action potentials arriving from nociceptors to the spinal cord can be utilized to optimize the timing and extent of rapid protective responses . In contrast , responses to optogenetic activation of Aβ-LTMRs occurred with slower onset , lower probability , and resulted in more subtle whole-body movements . Using a fixed number of pulses , we find that responses from multiple Aβ-LTMR inputs can be explained by the sum rule of probabilities rather than frequency-dependence  . We used broad-class Cre driver lines to selectively stimulate either nociceptors or Aβ-LTMRs , and it is possible that their respective subpopulations exploit a diversity of coding strategies . This provides a way to map behavioral responses , circuits , and cells recruited by defined afferent inputs and dissect the neural basis of processes associated with pain and touch . Optical elements , optomechanical components , mirror galvanometers , the diode laser , LEDs , controllers , machine vision cameras , and structural parts for the optical platform are listed in the table in Supplementary file 1 . A series of lenses  expanded the beam before focusing it on to the glass stimulation plane , on which mice are placed during experiments . The glass stimulation platform was constructed of 5-mm-thick borosilicate glass framed by aluminum extrusions . 307 mm2 , by translating this lens along the beam path at set points to defocus the laser spot at the 200 mm × 200 mm stimulation plane . To ensure a relatively flat field in the stimulation plane , the galvanometer housing aperture was placed at a distance of 400 mm from its center . In this configuration , the corners of the stimulation plane were at a distance of 424 mm from the galvanometer housing aperture and variability of the focal length was below 1 . Optical power density was kept constant by altering the laser power according to the laser spot area . Neutral density  filters were used so that the power at the laser aperture was above a minimum working value  and to minimize potential changes in the beam profile at the stimulation plane . The software displays the NIR-FTIR camera feed , whose path through the mirror galvanometers is shared with the laser beam , so that they are always in alignment with one another . Computationally adjusting mirror galvanometer angles causes identical shifts in both the descanned NIR-FTIR image field of view and intended laser stimulation site , so that the laser can be targeted to user-identified locations . Shaped stimulation patterns were achieved by programmatically scaling the mirror galvanometer angles to the glass stimulation plane using a calibration grid array  . The timings of laser pulse trains were synchronized with the mirror galvanometers to computationally implement predefined shapes and lines using small angle steps that could be as short as 300 µs . The custom software also synchronized image acquisition from the two cameras , so that time-locked high-speed local paw responses were recorded  . Time-locked global whole-body responses were recorded above video-frame rate  or at high speed  across the entire stimulation platform . To calibrate the L1 lens housing and ensure consistency of laser spot sizes across the glass stimulation platform , we designed a 13 . This flat aluminum mask was used to replace the glass stimulation platform and was combined with custom acrylic plates that align the aperture of a rotating scanning-slit optical beam profiler  to nine defined coordinates at different locations covering the stimulation plane . Using Thorlabs Beam Software , Gaussian fits were used to determine x-axis and y-axis 1/e2 diameters and ellipticities for each laser spot size over three replicates at all nine coordinates . Targeted expression of ChR2-tdTomato in broad-class cutaneous nociceptors was achieved by breeding mice homozygous for Cre-dependent ChR2  -tdTomato at the Rosa26 locus ( RRID:IMSR_JAX:012567 , R26-CAG-LSL-hChR2  -tdTomato , Ai27D; Madisen et al . Aβ-LTMRs were selectively stimulated by breeding homozygous Ai27D mice with mice in which Cre recombinase is targeted to cells expressing the vesicular glutamate transporter 1  . Resultant mice were heterozygous for both transgenes and were housed with control littermates that do not encode Cre recombinase but do encode Cre-dependent ChR2-tdTomato . On the experimental day , mice were again placed on the mesh floor for 1 hr , then up to six mice were transferred to six enclosures  positioned on the 200 mm × 200 mm glass stimulation platform . The laser was remotely targeted to the hind paw glabrous skin using the descanned NIR-FTIR image feed . The laser spot size was manually set using the calibrated L1 housing , while laser power and neutral density filters were used to achieve a power density of 40 mW/mm2 regardless of spot size . The software was then employed to trigger a laser pulse of defined duration  and simultaneously acquire high-speed  NIR-FTIR recordings of the stimulated paw , as well as a global view of the mice with a second camera   . Recordings of stimulations of TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice were 1500 ms in duration , with the laser pulse initiated at 500 ms . For each stimulation protocol , six pulses , three on each hind paw , spaced by at least 1 min were delivered to eight mice , split into two cohorts . For experiments involving Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice , we used a single stimulation spot size  and duration  . In addition to the single-pulse stimulation , these mice received a train of five pulses applied at 5 , 10 , or 20 Hz . For each protocol , Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice were stimulated in 10 trials , split equally between the two hind paws . Data was collected from 12 Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice and 8 littermate controls lacking Cre recombinase split into five cohorts . In all experiments , the behavioral withdrawal of the stimulated hind paw was also manually recorded by the experimenter . TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice were stimulated on the heel of the hind paw with each of the following protocols:  a single 1 ms pulse with spot size S7  ;  a single 1 ms pulse with spot size S4  ;  seven 1 ms pulses with spot size S4 , superimposed on the same stimulation site and spaced by 500 μs intervals;  seven 1 ms pulses with spot size S4 , spaced by 500 μs intervals and spatially displacing stimuli with 0 . 3791 mm jumps such as to draw a small hexagon;  seven 1 ms pulses with spot size S4 , spaced by 500 μs intervals and spatially displacing stimuli with 0 . 5687 mm jumps such as to draw a hexagon expanded by 50% compared to the previous shape; and  seven 1 ms pulses with spot size S4 , spaced by 500 μs intervals and spatially displacing stimuli with 0 . Seven mice , split into two cohorts , received 10 stimulations per protocol  after a baseline epoch of 500 ms . Finally , three TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice were stimulated  with a single pulse adjacent to the hind paw , five times on each side , in order to control for potential off-target effects . To obtain recordings optimized for markerless tracking with DeepLabCut , a single acrylic chamber  was centered on the glass stimulation platform of the system . TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice received between 10 and 20 single-shot laser pulse stimulations of 10 ms each , at least 1 min apart and equally split between right and left hind paw and using spot size S8  . A Python script was implemented in Fiji to verify the integrity of the high-speed NIR-FTIR recordings and extract average 8-bit intensity values from all frames within a circular region of interest on the stimulation site  . A hind paw response was defined as a drop of intensity equal to or below the mean of the baseline minus five times its standard deviation . Paw response latency was defined as time between the start of the pulse and the time at which a hind paw response was first detected . In addition to this two-step workflow using Fiji/Python to process AVI files and then RStudio to analyze the resulting output , alternative code was written in Python 3 , which combines both steps and also computes individual pixel latencies and motion energy using NumPy and Pandas packages . For raster plots of hind paw response dynamics in Figure 4A , NIR-FTIR intensity values were normalized to the average baseline value . For the patterned stimulation experiments in Figure 2F and Vglut1Cre::ChR2 experiments in Figure 5A–D , trials were analyzed as stated to compute local response probabilities , but an additional rule was introduced to further minimize the risk of false positives . Videos of the entire stimulation platform were cropped into individual mouse chambers  and then analyzed using RStudio to quantify the amount of whole-body movements , including those stemming from the response of the stimulated limb , herein referred to as global behavior  . Normalized binarized motion energy was calculated by subtracting each post-stimulus frame binarized motion energy from the average baseline binarized motion energy . The peak normalized binarized motion energy was determined and only trials displaying a peak response ≥5 standard deviations of the baseline mean were retained for further analysis and plotting . For TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice , the analysis was restricted to a time window of 100 ms after stimulus onset  to enable time-locking to the stimulus . For experiments with Vglut1Cre::ChR2 mice , the peak normalized binary motion energy exceeding five standard deviations of the baseline mean was determined for the entire 1 . GB was analyzed within a 1 ms time frame following stimulation by computing the binarized motion energy relative to a baseline reference frame 5 ms prior to stimulation as described above . The binarized motion energy  of a given frame was normalized to the total number of pixels within that frame after removing those frames that had been affected by the stimulation laser pulse . The global response latency of movement initiation was determined as the time when binarized motion energy was greater than 10 times the standard deviation at baseline . Termination of movement was determined as the time point when binarized motion energy returned below 10 times standard deviation from baseline following the first movement bout . Paw responses to patterned stimulation were reported as mean probabilities ± standard error of the mean  and analyzed using Friedman’s non-parametric test for within-subject repeated measures followed by Dunn’s signed-rank test for multiple comparisons  . In this experiment , one of the seven TRPV1Cre::ChR2 mice was removed from the dataset because it displayed saturating responses to Protocol 3 preventing comparison of values across a dynamic range . Response latencies , response rise times , and response durations were computed using a hierarchical bootstrap procedure  modified to acquire bootstrap estimates of the median with balanced resampling . For each mouse within this sample , its trials were sampled with replacement , but the number of selected trials was balanced , ensuring each mouse contributes equally to the number of trials in the sample . "
"Using complementary RNA-sequencing approaches , we detected large numbers of 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs and open reading frames  , suggesting extensive regulation by premature transcription termination . We documented regulation for multiple transcripts , including spermidine induction involving Rho and translation of an upstream ORF for an mRNA encoding a spermidine efflux pump . In addition to discovering novel sites of regulation , we detected short , stable RNA fragments derived from 5´ UTRs and sequences internal to ORFs . Characterization of three of these transcripts , including an RNA internal to an essential cell division gene , revealed that they have independent functions as sRNA sponges . Thus , these data uncover an abundance of cis- and trans-acting RNA regulators in bacterial 5´ UTRs and internal to ORFs . Changes in the secondary structures of these cis-acting RNA elements lead to altered expression of the associated gene  by modulating accessibility of ribosomes to sites of translation initiation , accessibility of RNases , or premature transcription termination . The RNA secondary structure changes can occur in response to temperature  , translation of small upstream open reading frames  , or the binding of trans-acting factors such as metabolites  , tRNAs , RNA-binding proteins such as CsrA , or small base-pairing RNAs   . Some of the regulatory events in 5´ UTRs are associated with premature transcription termination , which occurs by one of two mechanisms: intrinsic  or Rho-dependent  . Intrinsic termination requires only RNA polymerase and an RNA hairpin followed by a U-rich tract in the nascent RNA . Rho-dependent termination requires the loading of the hexameric Rho protein complex onto nascent , untranslated RNA at Rho utilization  sites that are typically C-rich , G-poor , and unstructured sequences  . Rho translocates along the RNA until the protein catches RNA polymerase and promotes transcription termination , typically between 100 and 200 nt downstream of the Rut site , leading to 3´ ends that are processed by 3´ to 5´exonucleases  . coli genome by sequencing RNA 3´ ends or by mapping the distribution of transcribing RNA polymerase  . In some studies , termination was compared in cells grown with/without the Rho inhibitor , bicyclomycin  , facilitating the identification of Rho termination sites  . These data provided evidence for Rho termination of mRNAs in 3´ UTRs and spurious transcripts initiated within genes . While termination within 5´ UTRs was noted in some of these studies , extensive global characterization of premature termination has not been performed . Many of the uncharacterized 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs or open reading frame  -internal regions are likely to be the result of regulatory events , given that riboswitches  , attenuators  , RNA-binding proteins  , and sRNAs  have all been implicated in affecting premature Rho termination events . In addition to being the product of a regulatory event , RNA fragments generated by premature termination or RNase cleavage themselves can have functions as regulatory sRNAs . sRNAs commonly base pair with trans-encoded mRNAs , frequently with the assistance of the RNA chaperone protein Hfq , resulting in changes in the stability or translation of the target mRNA  . Most sRNAs characterized to date are transcribed independent of other genes or are processed from mRNA 3´ UTRs , though a few 5´ UTR-derived sRNAs have been reported  . While sRNAs generally base pair with mRNA targets , a few small transcripts have been shown to have roles as competing endogenous RNAs  also known as ‘sponges’ , which base pair primarily with sRNAs , targeting the sRNAs for degradation or blocking their interactions with mRNA targets  . coli , we globally mapped RNA 3´ ends , and specifically characterized those ends in 5´ UTRs and ORF-internal regions . We compared this 3´ end dataset with another dataset where BCM treatment was used to identify sites of Rho termination . Using these approaches , we detected hundreds of RNA 3´ ends within 5´ UTRs and internal to ORFs , likely generated by premature transcription termination or RNase processing . For instance , we show 3´ ends are associated with the translation of uORFs , or result from the binding of some sRNAs to mRNA 5´ UTRs . Furthermore , we demonstrate that RNA fragments generated by premature transcription termination and from within coding sequences function as independent sRNA regulators; one as part of an autoregulatory loop and another that connects cell division to the cell envelope stress response . These findings reveal extensive and diverse regulation through premature transcription termination and RNase processing of mRNAs , which can lead to the generation of RNA by-products with independent functions . Total RNA was isolated and analyzed using modified RNAtag-seq   and 3´ end  protocols  . Using the Term-seq data , we curated a list of dominant RNA 3´ ends  . 4 in LB , this analysis revealed that , while 23% of 3´ ends mapped <50 bp downstream of an annotated gene  , hundreds  were classified as orphan and internal 3´ ends , many mapping upstream of , and within ORFs  . We compared the detected 3´ ends to those identified by three other RNA-seq based studies  . Note that the number of overlapping 3´ ends differs depending on the direction of the comparison  because multiple 3´ ends from one dataset can be close to a single 3´ end from the other dataset . coli Term-seq study only reported 3´ ends downstream of annotated genes  , we used our 3´ end calling algorithm to re-analyze the sequencing data from this study  . Here , we focused on , and characterized 3´ ends mapping upstream of , and internal to , coding sequences , most of which were not detected in the other RNA-seq studies . Concurrently , we mapped instances of Rho-dependent transcription termination . Total RNA was isolated and analyzed using a DirectRNA-seq protocol  , a method optimized for sequencing very short reads  directly from RNA , an advantage for examining the effect of Rho on the generation of small RNA fragments . Using these data , we calculated a ‘Rho score’ for each genomic position by comparing DirectRNA-seq coverage in 800 nt windows upstream and downstream in the treated  and untreated  samples  . This ratio reflects the degree of transcriptional Rho readthrough in the +BCM cells , where a score of >2 . 1078 genomic regions were putatively associated with a Rho termination event  . We note that these genomic positions are likely closer to processed RNA 3´ ends than the termination sites , since Rho-terminated transcripts typically are processed by 3´ to 5´ exonucleases  . Hence , we refer to the identified genomic locations as ‘Rho termination regions’ . As for 3´ ends mapped by Term-seq , we classified Rho termination regions by their position relative to annotated genes  . 3´ ends antisense to annotated genes represented the largest category  , consistent with significant Rho termination of antisense RNAs  . Only a small percentage  of the Rho termination regions are <50 nt downstream of an annotated gene  , likely because Rho loading and termination typically requires >50 nt untranslated RNA  . As for the 3´end-mapping by Term-seq , many Rho termination regions  were classified as orphan and internal , frequently mapping upstream of , or within ORF sequences . The C:G nucleotide usage was calculated for the putative Rho termination regions  , as well as for a control group of randomly selected genomic coordinates . Relative to the control group , there was a higher local C:G ratio within 200 nt of the 3´ ends associated with Rho termination regions  , consistent with enrichment for C-rich , G-poor sequences attributed to Rut sites  . We also compared the Rho termination regions  to the sites of Rho termination reported in three previous genome-wide studies  . Again , there was significant overlap with each of the three previous studies  , though many  of the putative Rho termination regions we identified are >500 bp away from any of the previously identified Rho termination regions  . The large sets of Rho termination regions that differ between the studies suggest that much remains to be learned about Rho-dependent termination . 6% of the Term-seq 3´ ends within 500 nt of a Rho termination region  . This suggests that these 3´ ends are associated with Rho-terminated transcripts . Many 3´ ends identified by Term-seq mapped upstream or internal to annotated mRNAs  . Among the 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs , several correspond to sites of known cis-acting RNA regulation  . These include mRNAs that previously have been shown to be regulated by premature Rho-dependent termination , such as the riboswitch-regulated genes thiM  , mgtA  , ribB  and lysC  , and the translationally-repressed genes ilvX  and topAI  . We also noticed that even some 5´ UTRs where regulation has only been reported to be at the level of translation , such as the RNA thermometer upstream of rpoH  and at ribosomal protein operons  , harbored defined 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs . 4 Term-seq dataset , for which the growth conditions were most similar to those of the DirectRNA-seq dataset , we determined whether each 3´ end was associated with a detected Rho termination event . It should be noted that some genes containing 3´ ends with significant Rho scores in Supplementary file 3 are absent from Supplementary file 2 , because the genomic position with the highest Rho score in that region is located in a neighboring gene/region , and thus given a different gene designation . 4 dataset in Supplementary file 3 , we predict that 20% have secondary structures and sequences consistent with intrinsic termination  , 11% have detectable Rho termination , and the remaining 3´ ends are likely the result of RNA processing . However , the number of Rho termination sites could be an underestimate , because inhibition of Rho leads to extensive readthrough transcription from very strongly transcribed genes that can mask overlapping transcripts , and 3´ ends generated by Rho termination are typically unstable  . Nonetheless , overall , our data suggest that modulation of premature transcription termination in 5´ UTRs or ORFs is a widespread regulatory mechanism . Several genes harboring Rho-dependent 3´ ends within the 5´ UTR or ORF have not been previously described as being regulated by Rho but are associated with characterized cis-acting RNA regulators . This region was associated with significant readthrough in the +BCM DirectRNA-seq sample and a 3´ end Rho score of 3 . 7  , strongly suggesting that the riboswitch impacts Rho-dependent premature termination , as is the case for other riboswitches . While the involvement of 5´ UTRs in sugE and moaA regulation was known , most of the genes for which we found 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs or ORFs have not been reported to have RNA-mediated regulation  . In some cases , such as the mdtJI mRNA , encoding a spermidine efflux pump , we observed a novel 3´ end that is clearly Rho-dependent  with a Rho score of 2 . In other cases , such as ispU  , encoding the undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase , a novel 3´ end was observed with no readthrough upon Rho inhibition  . To further test whether genes associated with 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs or ORFs are indeed regulated by premature Rho-dependent transcription termination , we generated lacZ transcriptional reporter fusions using the entire 5´ UTR and ORF for 27 genes  arbitrarily chosen for a range of calculated Rho scores and possible regulation . coli background or a mutant strain with an R66S substitution in Rho  , which disrupts the primary RNA-binding site  . A fusion to thiM , which harbors a 5´ UTR Rho-dependent terminator  , exhibited significantly higher levels of β-galactosidase activity in the Rho mutant strain , indicative of a disruption in Rho-dependent termination  . Northern analysis identified an RNA consistent with the 3´ end identified by Term-seq  , though we noted the abundance of this 5´ RNA fragment and extent of readthrough in the Rho R66S mutant varied with growth phase . Among the other constructs assayed , the expression of 14 fusions was >2-fold higher in rhoR66S compared to WT cells  , consistent with Rho termination in the 5´ UTR or ORF for sugE , cfa , cyaA , mdtJ , add , cspB , cspG , moaA , pyrG , yhaM , ydjL , yhiI , ytfL , and yajO . The effect of the Rho mutation on the eptB , chiP , and crp-yhfK fusions was intermediate   , while the fusions to ispU  , as well as mnmG , rpsJ , argT , srkA , and trmL  , displayed similar levels of β-galactosidase activity  for rhoR66S compared to WT cells . These assays support the notion that the 3´ end observed in the ispU 5´ UTR  is generated by intrinsic termination . It is unclear why we did not detect evidence for Rho termination of mnmG , rpsJ , argT , srkA or trmL , despite these genes having significant Rho scores . Interestingly , fusions to the ompA , yebO , glpF , and rimP 5´ UTR and ORF had decreased expression in the Rho mutant background  . The ompA and glpF genes were not associated with Rho termination by DirectRNA-seq . Transcriptional lacZ reporter gene fusions to only the 5´ UTR  were also generated for seven genes , to distinguish between Rho termination in the ORF and in the 5´ UTR . The effect of rhoR66S was eliminated for the shorter cyaA and eptB fusions  , suggesting that Rho-dependent termination occurs within the coding sequence of these genes . Regulation of Rho termination in 5´ UTRs is probably associated with the accessibility of Rut sequences , whereas Rho termination within coding sequences is probably associated with regulated translation initiation  , with translational repression indirectly leading to Rho termination . 0 in LB , northern analysis was performed with probes for the 5´ UTRs of sugE , cfa , cyaA , speA , mdtJ , eptB and ispU  as well as with probes for the coding sequences of cfa , cyaA , speA and mdtJ  . For sugE and cfa , however , the dominant band on the northern blot was not necessarily the most dominant 3´ end sequenced using Term-seq . The enrichment for the 5´ fragments as well as longer transcripts likely corresponding to the full-length sugE , cfa , cyaA , speA and mdtJ mRNAs  in the rhoR66S samples reflect transcriptional readthrough in the mutant background . This is consistent with Rho-dependent termination as seen for the lacZ fusions . For all of the Rho-terminated genes , we were surprised to observe the significant increase in the levels of short transcripts , as seen most strikingly for speA . This suggests that the detected 3´ ends can be generated by RNA processing from both Rho-terminated and full-length transcripts , with the increased abundance of longer transcripts in the rhoR66S samples leading to higher levels of the processed product . Collectively , these data validate premature termination in 5´ UTRs and , in several cases , suggest complex regulation . The mdtJI mRNA , encoding a spermidine exporter , has a long 5´ UTR   and a 3´ end that mapped six nt into the ORF  . Additionally , the transcript is subject to premature Rho termination  . Polyamines play important roles in RNA-mediated regulation , reported to cause structural changes to the 5´ UTR of the oppA mRNA  and induce ribosome stalling at a uORF in the 5´ UTR of the speFL mRNA  . Northern analysis of these samples probed for the mdtJI mRNA revealed a ~280 nt transcript , consistent with the 3´ end detected by Term-seq  , that was susceptible to readthrough upon the addition of spermidine for cells grown at high pH  . We therefore hypothesized that spermidine inhibits premature Rho termination of the mdtJI mRNA . To investigate the role of mdtU in spermidine-mediated regulation of mdtUJI , the mdtU start codon mutation  was introduced on the chromosome of a strain where a 3XFLAG tag was translationally fused to C-terminus of MdtJ . Northern and western blot analysis of strains encoding mdtUJ-3XFLAG-I showed mRNA and protein levels were strongly induced by spermidine , which was abolished in the strain with the mdtU start codon mutation  . Northern analysis was also carried out to determine if Rho termination in the mdtJI 5´ UTR impacts the induction by spermidine . However , inhibition of Rho did not completely abolish the stimulatory effect of spermidine on mdtUJI mRNA levels , perhaps because growth in spermidine and high pH may increase transcription initiation of mdtUJI . Together , these data support the model that spermidine , Rho , and translation of the mdtU uORF affect the levels of MdtJI and hence spermidine transport , though the mechanisms deserve further study . The vast majority of characterized regulatory binding sites for sRNAs are in 5´ UTRs , and we observed several RNA 3´ ends in 5´ UTRs near positions of documented sRNA base pairing  . For instance , the eptB , ompA and chiP mRNAs , which are targets of MgrR  , MicA  and ChiX  , respectively , all had 3´ ends directly downstream of the sequences involved in sRNA base pairing  . The presence of RNA 3´ ends at these positions suggested that stable 5´ mRNA fragments could be generated or perhaps protected by sRNA-mediated regulation . Indeed , 5´ transcripts for eptB and chiP were previously detected by total RNA-seq  , and the chiP 5´ transcript was reported to accumulate in the absence of the 3´-to-5´ phosphorolytic exoribonuclease PNPase  . To examine how sRNAs impacted the 5´ derived mRNA fragments of eptB , ompA , and chiP , we used northern analysis to examine the consequences of deleting or overexpressing the cognate sRNA gene . As expected , given the known sRNA-mediated downregulation of eptB , ompA and chiP , the levels of the target mRNAs were elevated in the sRNA deletion background compared to the WT strain and decreased with sRNA overexpression  . Some other RNA species were detected for eptB  , ompA  , and chiP  , but these did not match the expected sizes for the mRNAs , and may be degradation and/or readthrough products . Given that we observed a moderate effect of Rho mutation on eptB expression  , we speculate that MgrR base pairing both promotes Rho termination and protects the resultant RNA from exonucleases . For the 5´ UTR region of ompA , which showed only modest de-repression in the ∆micA strain , there was a decrease in the abundance of an ~120 nt fragment in the deletion strain  , and the levels of this fragment increased upon MicA overexpression . These effects are consistent with MicA sRNA-directed cleavage of the ompA mRNA generating the fragment , or the sRNA base pairing protecting the 3´ end from exonucleolytic processing . Given the strong signal detected for this transcript , we hypothesized that this RNA might have an independent role as a regulatory RNA . To test the hypothesis that 5´ UTR transcripts with defined bands have independent functions as sRNAs , we carried out further studies on the ~90 nt chiP 5´ UTR transcript  , which we renamed ChiZ , and the 81 and 60 nt ispU 5´ UTR transcripts  , denoted IspZ  . To obtain more information about the expression of these putative sRNAs , we performed northern analysis using the same RNA analyzed in the Term-seq experiment  . Distinct bands were detected for the two 5´ UTRs , consistent with the generation of stable RNAs with predicted stems protecting the ends  . Since many sRNA levels are negatively affected by the lack of the RNA chaperone Hfq  , we also conducted northern analysis using RNA extracted from WT or Δhfq cells across growth in LB  . Similar to other base-pairing sRNAs , and consistent with Hfq binding , ChiZ abundance was low in the ∆hfq background . Given that the binding of the sRNA ChiX to the mRNA chiP  increases Rho-mediated regulation of chiP  , we tested the role of Rho on ChiZ levels  . In contrast , IspZ levels were not affected by the rhoR66S mutant  , and IspZ is likely subject to intrinsic termination as stated previously . Given their association with Hfq , we tested the independent functions of ChiZ and IspZ as base-pairing sRNAs . Since the region of chiP encoding ChiZ has been documented to be a target for base pairing with the sRNA ChiX through compensatory mutations  , we postulated that ChiZ reciprocally regulates ChiX , sponging its base-pairing activity . As for chromosomally-encoded ChiZ  , longer transcripts were observed for plasmid-encoded ChiZ , likely due to readthrough , but only the levels of the 90 nt ChiZ band were strongly reduced in the ∆hfq mutant  . Upon ChiZ overexpression in the WT background , we observed increased levels of the chiP mRNA , with a reciprocal change in ChiX levels  . The levels of the chiP mRNA overall were higher in the Δhfq mutant background , but we no longer observed an increase upon ChiZ overexpression , likely due to the instabilities of ChiX and ChiZ . These observations support a novel sRNA regulatory network in which an mRNA  that is the target of an sRNA  produces an RNA fragment  that reciprocally sponges the sRNA   . We expected IspZ also might function as a base-pairing sRNA , and thus searched for potential targets identified by RIL-seq  , an approach where RNAs in proximity on an RNA-binding protein are identified by co-immunoprecipitation , ligation , and sequencing of the chimeras . As for chromosomally-encoded IspZ  , and in contrast to ChiZ , little readthrough and no effect of ∆hfq was observed for plasmid-expressed IspZ  . We also noted examples of abundant 3´ ends internal to ORFs  , downstream of nearby 5´ ends previously identified by dRNA-seq  , and associated with a strong signal in total RNA-seq  . A previous study inferred from total RNA-seq data that some sRNAs might be derived from sequences internal to ORFs  . To test whether we could detect defined transcripts for these internal  signals , we selected candidate RNAs derived from the ftsI  , aceK , rlmD , mglC , and ampG ORFs for further investigation  . Analysis of dRNA-seq data  suggested that the FtsO , aceK int and ampG int 5´ ends likely are generated by RNase processing of the overlapping mRNA , whereas rlmD int and mglC int likely are transcribed from promoters internal to the overlapping ORFs . In nearly all cases , the RNA 3´ ends are not predicted to be due to Rho-dependent transcription termination events  , strongly suggesting they are generated by RNase processing or , for aceK int , intrinsic termination  . Northern analysis was performed for these RNAs using the same RNA analyzed in the Term-seq experiment  ; distinct bands were detected for all the RNAs tested . While FtsO and ampG int were relatively abundant under all growth conditions tested , mglC int and rlmD int were only expressed in cells grown in LB , and aceK int was most abundant in LB at OD600 ~ 2 . The aceK int transcript was strongly dependent upon hfq , whereas the other RNAs were unaffected by hfq deletion , though all five transcripts have been reported to co-immunoprecipitate with Hfq  . Additionally , the ORF-internal sRNAs are found in chimeras with other putative mRNA and sRNA targets in the Hfq RIL-seq datasets  : FtsO and RybB , aceK int and ompF , rlmD int and MicA , mglC int and ArcZ , ampG int and CyaR . Significant chimeras also were detected between aceK int and gatY in the RIL-seq data set for the ProQ RNA chaperone  . To test for the suggested regulatory function , we focused on FtsO , which is encoded internal to the coding sequence of the essential cell division protein FtsI , and exhibited high levels across growth  . The predominant target for FtsO in the RIL-seq datasets was the sRNA RybB  followed by the sRNA CpxQ  . We hypothesized that FtsO functions as a sponge for RybB and CpxQ , which are induced by misfolded outer membrane proteins and inner membrane proteins , respectively , and down-regulate the corresponding classes of proteins  . For the 360 min time point when the levels of both RybB and CpxQ are highest , a reduction was observed for both sRNAs in cells overexpressing FtsO  . As reported previously , the levels of RybB and CpxQ are significantly lower in the ∆hfq strain , though some FtsO-dependent downregulation of RybB is still detected . To confirm the direct interaction between FtsO and RybB , we mutated three nucleotides in the site of predicted base pairing  on the plasmid copy of ftsO . The repressive effect was similarly abolished by mutating the predicted site of base pairing in the chromosomal copy of rybB but was restored by combining the complementary mutations in ftsO and rybB  . To test the downstream effect of sponging RybB , we examined the levels of the known RybB mRNA-target ompC  compared the effects of RybB to the effects of the previously characterized RybB sRNA sponge , RbsZ  . Both FtsO and RbsZ overexpression led to a decrease in RybB levels and a concomitant increase in ompC mRNA levels , though the effect of RbsZ was stronger . This effect was also observed in a second experiment  that documented higher RybB levels up to 60 min following ethanol treatment in ftsO-M3 cells . We also assessed the consequences of FtsO sponging RybB on the levels of ompC for the same RNA samples . In both experiments , the ompC mRNA levels decreased after cells were treated with ethanol but for the ftsO-M3 mutant strain there was a further decrease at the 20 min time point  . The conservation of ftsO was examined by aligning ftsI orthologs across 18 species of gammaproteobacteria , revealing a striking degree of ftsO conservation  at ftsI wobble positions compared to the entire ftsI mRNA wobble positions   . The region of base pairing parallels the conservation of the RybB seed sequence and is predicted to be within an unstructured region of FtsO  . Collectively , our data suggest that FtsO base pairing with RybB is conserved , and lowers RybB levels and activity following outer membrane stress  . Through our transcriptome-wide mapping of 3´ ends and Rho-dependent termination , we uncovered extensive RNA-mediated regulation and sRNA regulators encoded by 5´ UTRs and internal to ORFs . Other studies have previously identified RNA 3´ ends and regions of Rho-dependent termination in E . For example , reporter gene fusion data and northern analysis supported Rho termination of sugE , cfa , cyaA , speA , and mdtJ , of which , only sugE was detected in the previous genome-wide surveys  . Like any RNA-seq method , a few 3´ ends also could be due to RNA degradation during library preparation . Given that strain and growth conditions used for our Term-seq and total RNA-seq match those of the previous dRNA-seq analysis  in which we identified TSSs and 5´ processed ends , the combined sets represent a valuable resource for examining the E . The majority of the 3´ ends that we identified were classified as ‘internal’ or ‘orphan’ , most of which map within 5´ UTRs or internal to ORFs , and a significant number of which are predicted to be generated by premature transcription termination . This notion of widespread premature transcription termination has been underappreciated in other studies that detected RNA 3´ ends and Rho-mediated termination . It is generally not possible to identify the exact position of Rho termination due to post-transcriptional RNA processing . Nevertheless , our reporter assays showed that in most cases tested , Rho termination could be localized to the 5´ UTR , suggesting that modulation of Rut accessibility in 5´ UTRs could be a common mechanism of regulation . Presuming that many premature termination events are regulatory , we documented and characterized examples of novel , diverse regulatory events for several of the 3´ ends . Classically , these regulators , such as riboswitches and attenuators , have been identified by serendipity , studies of individual genes , or searches for conserved RNA structures  , but these approaches may miss regulatory RNA elements if the function of the downstream gene is unknown or the region is not broadly conserved . Our characterization of the mdtU uORF suggests that regulation of premature mdtJI transcription termination occurs in response to ribosome stalling induced by polyamines . Two recent studies showed that the polyamine ornithine can stall ribosomes immediately upstream of the stop codon of the speFL uORF , affecting Rho binding and the secondary structure of the speFL mRNA  . Strikingly , conservation of MdtU is strongest at the C-terminus , and overlaps a region of the mdtU RNA that is predicted to base pair with the mdtJI ribosome binding site . We also documented three instances of 3´ ends that localized a short distance downstream of known trans-acting sRNA base-pairing sites . These 3´ ends could be generated by endonuclease processing as a result of sRNA base pairing , or could be due to protection against exonucleases as a result of sRNA pairing . An examination of sRNA base-pairing sites predicted by RIL-seq points toward other instances of this type of regulation . For example , Term-seq identified 3´ ends immediately downstream of the predicted sRNA base-pairing regions for the uncharacterized mRNA-sRNA interactions rbsD-ArcZ , dctA-MgrR , and yebO-CyaR detected by RIL-seq chimeras  . In all these instances , the 3´ ends could be a result of the sRNA regulatory effect , and in some cases , may result in the formation of a new sRNA , as we observed for ChiZ . Previous studies have shown that intergenic regions and mRNA 3´ UTRs are major sources of regulatory sRNAs , with a few characterized examples of sRNAs derived from 5´ UTRs , and no characterized ORF-internal sRNAs  . Given that sRNAs derived from 5´ UTRs only require the generation of a new 3´ RNA end  , and are not usually constrained by codon sequences , they could evolve rapidly . The sRNA 3´ end can be formed by intrinsic termination or Rho-dependent termination and/or processing . RNA structure predictions strongly suggest the IspZ 3´ end is generated by intrinsic termination  for which we observed very little readthrough . In contrast , the ChiZ 3´ end is generated by Rho-dependent termination with significant readthrough that would allow chiP expression . The ends might be generated by ORF-internal promoters , termination , or RNase processing . In cases where one or both sRNA ends are generated by processing , this is presumably coupled with down-regulation of the overlapping mRNA . It is possible that the ftsI mRNA is protected from cleavage by ribosomes during cell division such that FtsO is only generated in the absence of mRNA translation . In some cases , such as rlmD int and ampG int , a transcript originating from a TSS internal to the cognate mRNA could be processed to form the 5´ end of the sRNA . These observations underscore how the interplay of transcription initiation , transcription termination , and RNase processing leads to many short transcripts that have the potential to evolve independent regulatory functions . We identified and characterized three sRNA sponges that have 3´ ends either in 5´ UTRs or internal to the coding sequence . ChiZ is generated from the chiP 5´ UTR encompassing the site of pairing with the ChiX sRNA . We found ChiZ is formed by Rho-dependent termination , and in the absence of ChiX base pairing with chiP . When cells utilize chitobiose as a carbon source and ChiX levels are naturally low , there are higher levels of chiP  and likely also higher levels of ChiZ . It will be interesting to see if other 5´ UTRs and sRNAs form similar autoregulatory loops , since 5´ UTRs are enriched for sRNA pairing sites , and we have shown that sRNA pairing is associated with distinct small transcripts from 5´ UTRs . While small transcripts from within coding sequences have been noted previously  , and a homolog of FtsO  has been detected for Salmonella enterica  , we are the first to document a regulatory role for a bacterial ORF-internal sRNA . FtsO was found to base pair with , and negatively regulate the membrane stress response sRNA , RybB . The cell may need to alter its response to membrane stress during the division cycle when many membrane components are needed , and we suggest FtsO could facilitate crosstalk between cell division and membrane stress by regulating RybB activity . While it is reasonable to assume that regulatory sRNAs encoded by intragenic sequences are rare , due to the challenge of encoding two functions in one region of DNA , we think it is likely that other ORF-internal sRNAs have function . Our work has significantly increased the number of sRNAs documented to modulate the activities of other sRNAs by sponging their activities , as found for ChiZ , or affecting their levels , as shown for IspZ and FtsO . It also is intriguing that some abundant sRNAs are subject to regulation by multiple sponges , including ChiX , which is regulated by ChiZ and the chbBC intergenic region  , and RybB , which is regulated by FtsO , RbsZ  and the 3´ETSleuZ tRNA fragment  . Further identification and characterization of RNA fragments generated by premature termination or processing , detected by mapping the 5´ and 3´ ends of bacterial transcriptomes , will help elucidate the effects of regulatory RNAs . Our datasets point to a plethora of potential cis- and trans-acting regulatory elements in 5´ UTRs and ORF-internal regions , providing a valuable resource for further studies of gene regulation . This intermediate was used to create the mdtU start codon mutant  by recombineering the PCR-amplified thyA marker  into the mdtU gene and then replacing the thyA marker with the mdtU mutation  . The oxyS-M1::kan  and rybB-M3::kan  strains were constructed by PCR-amplifying the kanR sequence in pKD4  using primers PA313 + PA314  or PA218 + PA219  and recombineering the product  into the chromosome of E . Either the entire 5´ UTR and annotated ORF region , or 5´ UTR region alone for selected genes was PCR-amplified using the oligonucleotides listed in Supplementary file 4 , and cloned into the pMM1 vector , cut with NsiI and NheI restriction enzymes , using the NEBuilder HiFi kit  . The mdtU-lacZ translational fusions were constructed by PCR-amplifying the mdtU gene from either a WT  genomic template or mdtU start codon mutant  template  using primers JW7269 + JW8934 . Term-seq libraries were prepared using a modified version of the RNAtag-seq methodology  , based on the previously published Term-seq methodology  . Term-seq RNA libraries were analyzed on a Qubit 3 Fluorometer  and an Agilent 4200 TapeStation System prior to paired-end sequencing using the HiSeq 2500 system  . Total RNA-seq was performed using the same RNA that was used for the Term-seq library preparations . Total RNA-seq library construction was carried out based on the RNAtag-seq methodology  , which was adapted to capture bacterial sRNAs  . Total RNA-seq RNA libraries were sequenced as for Term-seq . Total RNA-seq data processing followed the same procedures as Term-seq data analysis for QC , adaptor removal and sequencing read mapping . The approximate Rho-dependent transcription termination sites were predicted by identifying the locations of transcriptional readthrough in the BCM-treated sample . Putative Rho termination regions were those genome coordinates with a positive Rho score and a significance score <1e−4 . Only the position with the highest Rho significance score within an 800 nt window upstream and downstream is reported in Supplementary file 2 . Note that Rho scores and significance scores listed in Supplementary file 3 were calculated for specific positions matching the dominant Term-seq 3´ ends; there may be nearby positions with a lower significance score and/or a higher Rho score . 3´ ends were also categorized according to their position relative to mRNA 5´ UTRs and internal mRNA regions  . Any 3´ end where the first upstream feature was a stop codon was eliminated , unless there was also a TSS ≤200 bp upstream the 3´ end or that upstream feature was the stop codon of an annotated ‘leader peptide’ on the EcoCyc E . 4 condition , 3´ ends were given a Rho score from Direct-RNA-seq  and an intrinsic terminator score  . uORFs for which synthesis was detected by western analysis and/or translational reporter fusions  , sRNAs for which synthesis was detected by northern analysis  and other characterized RNA regulators were noted for the LB 0 . As detailed in Figure 1—figure supplement 2 , we compared the 3´ ends identified by Term-seq with 3´ ends identified in other studies , and we compared Rho termination regions with putative sites of Rho termination identified in other studies . "
"Lymph nodes  are highly confined environments with a cell-dense three-dimensional meshwork , in which lymphocyte migration is regulated by intracellular contractile proteins . However , the molecular cues directing intranodal cell migration remain poorly characterized . Here we demonstrate that lysophosphatidic acid  produced by LN fibroblastic reticular cells  acts locally to LPA2 to induce T-cell motility . In vivo , either specific ablation of LPA-producing ectoenzyme autotaxin in FRCs or LPA2 deficiency in T cells markedly decreased intranodal T cell motility , and FRC-derived LPA critically affected the LPA2-dependent T-cell motility . In vitro , LPA activated the small GTPase RhoA in T cells and limited T-cell adhesion to the underlying substrate via LPA2 . The LPA-LPA2 axis also enhanced T-cell migration through narrow pores in a three-dimensional environment , in a ROCK-myosin II-dependent manner . These results strongly suggest that FRC-derived LPA serves as a cell-extrinsic factor that optimizes T-cell movement through the densely packed LN reticular network . B cells then migrate into LN follicles , whereas T cells remain in the paracortex and migrate continually along the FRC network  . This intranodal migration provides critical opportunities for T cells to encounter cognate antigen-presenting dendritic cells . Two-photon microscopic analysis has shown that naïve T cells crawl along the FRC network in an apparently random pattern of motion , at an average velocity of 10–15 μm per minute  . FRCs promote intranodal T-cell motility by signaling naïve lymphocytes with CCL21/CCL19 via CCR7 , thus activating the small GTPase Rac  , although CCR7 signaling only partially account for the interstitial T cell motility  . LPA is a bioactive lysophospholipid produced both extracellularly and intracellularly . Extracellularly produced LPA is involved in such diverse biological functions as vascular remodeling and cell growth , survival , and migration  . Intracellularly produced LPA is an intermediate in the synthesis of triglycerides and glycerophospholipids , and thought to act as a 'housekeeper' inside the cell  . Extracellular LPA is predominantly produced by autotaxin  , an ectoenzyme that was originally identified as a tumor-cell motility-enhancing factor  . ATX is a lysophospholipase D that produces LPA by hydrolyzing lysophosphatidylcholine   . We and others have reported that ATX is strongly expressed in HEV endothelial cells  , and that ATX regulates lymphocyte migration into the LN parenchyma  . We also demonstrated that LPA enhances lymphocyte detachment from ECs and promotes lymphocyte transmigration across the HEV basal lamina , at least in part by acting on HEV ECs  . LPA also acts on naïve T cells to induce chemokinesis and cell polarization  and transmigration  . While a study using pharmacological inhibitors revealed that ATX/LPA promotes intranodal lymphocyte motility in an ex vivo LN explant model  , the physiological significance of the ATX/LPA axis in interstitial lymphocyte migration remains unknown . To date , six LPA receptors  have been identified . LPA receptors couple to multiple G proteins , including Gi , G12/13 , Gq , and Gs , and upon ligand binding , these G proteins activate diverse intracellular signaling components including Rho and Rac . Although LPA2 has recently been reported to play a role in intranodal T-cell migration  , it remains unclear how LPA2-mediated signaling affects interstitial T-cell motility and whether LPA is the prime activating ligand . Leukocyte migration in a confined environment is regulated at least partly by cell contraction  . reported that a contractile protein , myosin IIA , is required for T-cell amoeboid motility in confined environments such as LNs  . While the cell-extrinsic factor  that regulate myosin II’s activity during T-cell migration in a confined environment have been poorly defined , a recent study using zebrafish germ progenitor cells showed that LPA induces cell polarization in a ROCK-myosin II-dependent manner , which enables rapid cell migration in a confined environment  . In this study , by using mice conditionally deficient for the LPA-generating enzyme ATX in FRCs and those deficient in LPA2 , we demonstrated that bioactive LPA species are produced by FRCs in an ATX-dependent manner and that LPA acts locally on LPA2 on T cells . This LPA2-mediated signaling activates the RhoA-ROCK-myosin II pathway and promotes confinement-optimized interstitial T-cell migration . The FRC-derived LPA thus serves as a cell-extrinsic factor that optimizes T-cell movement through the densely packed LN reticular network , to fine-tune T-cell trafficking . Although CCR7 ligands are reported to stimulate intranodal T-cell motility  , they are not sufficient to account for effective T-cell migration in LNs . Given that ATX , which generates the motogenic lysophospholipid , LPA , is expressed in HEV ECs to modulate lymphocyte motility  , we speculated that ATX and its product LPA are also expressed in other stromal cell subsets in the LN parenchyma and may control intranodal lymphocyte migration . Indeed , a recent paper showed that ATX is expressed in CCL21+ CD31- stromal cells in LNs  . We therefore subdivided the CD45- LN stromal cells into four stromal subsets  . As shown in Figure 1B , Enpp2/Autotaxin was readily detected in GP38+ CD31- FRCs as well as GP38- CD31+ blood endothelial cells  , with negligible expression in lymphatic ECs and double-negative cells . Interestingly , analyses using Ccl19-Cre x R26-EYFP mice , which constitutively express yellow fluorescent protein  in FRCs  , revealed that Enpp2 was selectively expressed in LN FRCs but not splenic FRCs  . This Enpp2 expression was apparently dependent on LTβR signaling , because blocking LTβR signaling significantly reduced expression of Enpp2 , Cxcl13 , and Ccl19 , but not Icam1 , in FRCs  . These results confirm that similarly to HEV ECs , FRCs constitutively express the LPA-generating enzyme ATX , which is maintained at least in part by LTβR signaling . Representative dot plot of the CD45- stromal cells in LNs . CD45- cells were divided by CD31 and gp38 expression into FRCs  , lymphatic endothelial cells  , blood endothelial cells  , and double-negative cells . Enpp2 in CD45- EYFP+ cells in LNs and the spleen of Ccl19-Cre x R26-EYFP mice . 003 To verify that LPA is generated in situ by FRC-derived ATX , we crossed Enpp2fl/fl mice and Ccl19-Cre mice to generate Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice that lacked ATX expression specifically in the FRCs . As expected , in the Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , Enpp2 was completely lost in the FRCs but not in the BECs , whereas Ccl21 and GP38 expression was comparable between these strains  . The frequency of FRCs in stromal cells also appeared to be uncompromised by the deficiency of Enpp2 in FRCs  . We then compared LPA production in the LN of these mice using imaging mass spectrometry  . To this end , we first injected fluorescein-conjugated dextran , which labels lymphatics and the medulla , into the footpad , and LPA  , LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  were then visualized in LN sections . As shown in Figure 2B , signals corresponding to LPA  were widely distributed in the LN . The signals were comparable in intensity and frequency in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice; this LPA species appears to be produced mainly within the cell  independently of ATX  . In sharp contrast , signals corresponding to LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  , the major species produced extracellularly by ATX  , were predominantly observed in the paracortex both close to and at a distance from HEVs , but only marginally in the medulla . These signals were substantially decreased in the cortex of Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl as compared with Enpp2fl/fl mice  . Multiple LPA species are produced in the LN parenchyma by FRCs . Enpp2 and Ccl21 mRNA expression in LN stromal cells in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl or Enpp2fl/fl mice . LPA-species distribution in the LNs of Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl and Enpp2fl/fl mice . Signals corresponding to LPA   , LPA   , LPA   , and LPA   were visualized by IMS analysis  and overlapped with MECA-79 staining  on LN serial sections . LPA signals located within 50 μm of an HEV are circled by dotted lines and signals more than 50 μm away from an HEV are indicated by arrows for each of the LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  species . The frequency of LPA signals by distance from an HEV , and the median distance from an HEV . Stromal cell populations in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice . The frequency of FRCs , BECs , LECs and double negative cells in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice was analyzed by flow cytometry  . FRC-specific ATX ablation reduced the velocity of T cells in LNs . Intravital two-photon microscopy was used to analyze the intranodal migration of eGFP-expressing CD4+ T cells  15 hr after the cells were injected into Enpp2fl/fl  or Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice  . 006 To verify that the cortical LPA signals associated with non-HEV structures were derived from FRCs , we next mapped the LPA signals relative to HEVs in Enpp2fl/fl mice and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice by measuring the distance between individual signals and the nearest HEV . As shown in Figure 2C , the frequency of LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  signals within 50 μm of an HEV did not differ significantly between Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice . Hence , the median distance between LPA signals and HEVs was significantly reduced in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl compared with Enpp2fl/fl mice , consistent with the idea that distant LPA signals were associated with FRCs . Together with the observations showing robust expression of ATX in FRCs , these findings indicate that the cortical LPA signals not associated with HEVs are mainly produced by FRCs in an ATX-dependent manner . To understand the role of FRC-derived LPA in regulating intranodal T-cell migration , we next examined the CD4+ T-cell interstitial migration in LNs by intravital two-photon microscopy . To this end , CD4+ T cells from WT mice expressing a transgene encoding enhanced GFP  were injected intravenously into Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , and the intranodal T-cell migration in popliteal LNs  was imaged 15–25 hr later  . As shown in Figure 3A , B , CD4+ T-cell movement and displacement from the original location in the PLN was substantially restricted in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl compared with Enpp2fl/fl mice . The median T-cell velocity was also lower in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl than in Enpp2fl/fl mice  . Measurement of the mean displacement and the motility coefficient , which represents the volume in which an average cell scans per unit time  , also indicated that T-cell motility was impaired in the LN parenchyma of Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice  , whereas the directionality of the intranodal T-cell movement was comparable in these mouse groups  , supporting the hypothesis that FRC-derived LPA is required for efficient intranodal T-cell migration . FRC-specific ATX ablation attenuates intranodal T-cell migration . Intranodal T-cell migration in Enpp2fl/fl mice and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , analyzed by intravital two-photon microscopy . Intranodal T-cell migration in the PLN was analyzed 15–25 hr after injecting eGFP-expressing CD4+ T cells into Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl or Enpp2fl/fl mice . Automated tracking of CD4+ T-cell migration  , and images rotated to display the z-dimension of the volume  . Pooled data of WT CD4+ T-cell velocity in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl LNs . WT CD4+ T cells were injected into Enpp2fl/fl or Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , and their intranodal migration was analyzed by by two-photon microscopy . Directionality of WT CD4+ T-cell movement in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl LNs . 009 To understand how LPA regulates intranodal T-cell migration , we analyzed the LPA-receptor expression in lymphocytes . As shown in Figure 4A , CD4+ T cells , CD8+ T cells , and B cells expressed different levels of Lpar2 , Lpar5 , and Lpar6 , encoding LPA2 , LPA5 and LPA6 respectively , with B cells expressing relatively high levels of Lpar2 compared to T cells . Lpar2 deficiency causes T cells to be retained in LNs . LPA-receptor expression in lymphocyte subsets: CD4+ T , CD8+T , B cells and whole LNs were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR; expression levels were normalized to Gapdh . Migration of LPA receptor–deficient lymphocytes into secondary lymphoid tissues . Splenocytes from eGFP-expressing mice and from Lpar2-/- , Lpar5-/- , or Lpar6-/- mice were mixed in equal numbers , labeled with biotin , and injected intravenously into WT recipients . Ratio of LPA receptor-deficient  cells to eGFP-expressing  cells that migrated into the spleen , peripheral LN , and MLN after adoptive transfer into WT recipient mice . Representative dot plots of donor cells  and biotinylated cells in LNs of recipient mice  . Lpar2-/- lymphocyte subpopulations that migrated into the spleen , peripheral LN , and MLN of recipient mice . Data shown for adoptive transfer experiments using Lpar2-/- , Lpar5-/- and Lpar6-/- lymphocytes are representative of five , two , and three independent experiments , respectively  . Localization of adoptively transferred WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+T cells in LNs . DiD-labeled CD4+ T cells from WT mice  were mixed equally with CMTMR-labeled Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  and injected intravenously into WT recipient mice; 90 min later , Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated MECA-79 mAb  was injected intravenously to visualize HEVs . The distance that CD4+ T cells migrated from HEVs was measured , and the ratio of Lpar2-/- to WT T cells was calculated . Ratio of Lpar2-/- T cells to WT T cells retained in LNs when lymphocyte entry into LNs was blocked . 2+Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells were intravenously injected into CD45 . At T=0 hr and T=23 hr , the total cell number in LNs  and the frequency of donor-derived cells  were measured . 010 We next examined whether LPA-receptor deficiency in lymphocytes causes abnormal migration into LNs , as seen in myosin IIA–deficient T cells  . Splenocytes from eGFP-expressing mice and from LPA receptor-deficient mice were biotinylated , mixed in equivalent numbers , and injected intravenously into WT recipients , and lymphocytes that migrated into the LNs and spleen were counted 1 . As shown in Figure 4B , Lpar5-/- and Lpar6-/- lymphocytes migrated into the LN and spleen at levels comparable to WT lymphocytes . In contrast , there were more Lpar2-/- than WT lymphocytes in the LNs but not the spleen  . Among the migrating cells , this increase was evident for CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells but not B cells  . A similar increase was also observed when purified CD4+ T cells were used  . These results suggest two possibilities for the role of LPA2: one is that LPA2 negatively regulates the entry of T cells into LNs across HEVs , and the other is that LPA2 promotes intranodal T-cell motility and hence their egress from the LNs . To test these hypotheses , we co-injected differentially labeled WT and Lpar2-/- T cells and examined their intranodal localization after 90 min by whole-mount LN analysis . Among the donor T cells in the LN parenchyma , Lpar2-/- and WT T cells localized in the vicinity of HEVs  at comparable levels  , indicating that LPA2 plays a minor role in T cell entry into LNs across HEVs . By contrast , Lpar2-/- T cells localized more frequently in the area distant  from HEVs compared with WT T cells  , consistent with the hypothesis that LPA promotes intranodal T cell migration via LPA2 , and hence , Lpar2-deficient T cells were retained in the LN parenchyma . To directly assess the involvement of the LPA2 signaling in T-cell egress from LNs , we blocked the T cell entry by injecting anti-L-selectin antibody MEL-14 intravenously  , and measured the number of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells residing in the LNs 23 hr after the injection . As shown in Figure 4G , the blockade of T cell entry  resulted in reduction of the cellularity in LNs and increased the ratio of Lpar2-/- T cells to WT cells compared to that before the injection . These results indicate that retention of Lpar2-deficient T cells was seen even after blockade of lymphocyte ingress to LNs and are compatible with the hypothesis that Lpar2-deficiency leads to T cell retention in the LN parenchyma without affecting lymphocyte migration into LNs . To verify that LPA2-mediated signaling is required for intranodal T-cell motility , we next compared the intranodal migration of Lpar2-deficient and WT T cells . We adoptively transferred CD4+ T cells from Lpar2-/- mice and WT mice and used intravital two-photon microscopy to compare the behavior of these cells in the PLN of the recipient mice . Preliminary experiments indicated that the lymphocyte labeling used for in vivo cell tracking did not affect cell motility under the experimental conditions  . Compared to WT T cells , the Lpar2-/- T cells moved noticeably more slowly and had comparatively shorter track lengths and less displacement from their original position per unit of time  . Lpar2-/- T cells had a 13% lower average velocity  , a 45% lower mean square displacement  , and a 70% lower motility coefficient than WT T cells  , although the directionality of T-cell motion was comparable in these cell types  . Lpar2 deficiency attenuates intranodal T-cell migration . Analysis of the intranodal migration of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells in the PLN of WT mice by intravital two-photon microscopy . CD4+ T cells from eGFP-expressing mice  mixed with an equal number of CMTMR-labeled Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  were injected into WT mice; the transferred cells' internodal migration was analyzed by intravital two-photon microscopy 15–25 hr later  . Translated tracking of CD4+ T-cell migration with a common origin . The intranodal migration of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells in the PLN of Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl or Enpp2fl/fl mice . Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells and WT CD4+ T cells were mixed in equivalent numbers and injected into Enpp2fl/fl  or Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice  . The intranodal migration of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells in the presence of anti-LFA-1 blocking antibody . Tracking of WT and Lpar2-/- T cells in popliteal LN using intravital two-photon microscopy . CD4+ T cells from eGFP-expressing mice  mixed with an equal number of CMTMR-labeled Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  were injected into WT mice; the transferred cells' intranodal migration was analyzed by intravital two-photon microscopy 15–25 hr later . The T-cell migration was tracked by Imaris software . Directionality of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T-cell movement in WT LNs . Motility of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells in Enpp2fl/fl or Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl LNs . Motility of WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells in WT LNs before and after the injection of anti-LFA-1 antibody . Lpar2 deficiency attenuated the intranodal T-cell motility . Intravital two-photon microscopy of the intranodal migration of eGFP-expressing CD4+ T cells  and CMTMR-labeled Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  in PLNs 15 hr after the cells were injected into WT mice . 015 We next examined the importance of the LPA2 receptor in the FRC-derived LPA-dependent T-cell motility in the LN parenchyma . WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells were mixed and injected intravenously into Enpp2fl/fl or Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , and the migration of these cells within the LN was monitored . In Enpp2fl/fl mice , Lpar2-/- T cells had significantly less intranodal motility than WT cells  . On the other hand , a reduced intranodal motility of Lpar2-/- T cells was not observed in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice , which lack ATX/LPA in the FRCs  . These results indicate that intranodal T-cell motility is regulated via LPA2 on T cells and that the LPA2-mediated T-cell motility requires FRC-derived LPA . Because LFA-1 regulates high-speed intranodal T cell migration  , we examined integrin dependency in the LPA2-mediated intranodal T-cell migration by transferring the WT and Lpar2-/- T cells and monitoring the cell migration before and after injecting anti-LFA-1 antibody  . As shown in Figure 5H–J and Figure 5—figure supplement 3C–E , the blockade of the interaction between LFA-1 and ICAM-1 significantly attenuated WT T cell motility as reported previously  . Of note , even in the absence of the LFA-1/ICAM-1 interaction , Lpar2 deficiency reduced T-cell motility , and the extent of reduction in T-cell velocity  and motility coefficient  was comparable to that observed in the presence of the integrin interaction   . These results support the hypothesis that LPA/LPA2 regulates T-cell motility at least partly in an integrin-independent manner . LPA is reported to promote T-cell migration in a two-dimensional  environment by inducing chemokinesis  . We therefore investigated the motility of WT and Lpar2-deficient CD4+ T cells in a 2D environment by time-lapse microscopy . Untreated or LPA-pretreated CD4+ T cells were applied to one side of an EZ-Taxiscan chamber coated with ICAM-1 , and the migration of cells toward CCL21 placed on the other side of the chamber was monitored in real time . As shown in Figure 6A , B , WT T cells efficiently migrated toward CCL21 in response to LPA in a time-dependent manner . Compared to untreated WT T cells , LPA-sensitized WT T cells had a higher velocity and a smaller mean turning angle  . In contrast , LPA treatment did not enhance the migration of Lpar2-/- T cells toward CCL21 . LPA/LPA2-mediated signaling promotes T-cell migration on a 2D surface . CD4+ T cells from WT or Lpar2-/- mice were left untreated or were treated with LPA  and immediately loaded on one side of an EZ-Taxiscan chamber , and medium containing CCL21  was applied on the other side . Cell migration on a surface coated with ICAM-1-Fc was monitored at 1-min intervals . Cells that migrated toward the CCL21-containing contra-wells were counted , and the  average cell velocity and  turning angle were calculated . 016 We next examined whether LPA also regulates T-cell migration via LPA2 in a three-dimensional  environment , in which leukocyte migration largely depends on actomyosin contraction  . Transwell analyses have shown that lymphocyte migration across a filter with a 3-μm pore diameter depends on ROCK/myosin II signaling , while migration across a 5-μm pore does not  . Since LPA induces chemokinesis  , we added LPA to lymphocytes placed in the upper chamber of a Transwell apparatus with a 3-μm pore diameter filter and counted the cells that migrated to the lower well . As shown in Figure 7A , LPA sensitization enhanced the migration of CD4+ T cells , and this enhancement was strongly inhibited by the ROCK inhibitor Y27632  , or the myosin II ATPase inhibitor blebbistatin  , but not by pertussis toxin  , which inhibits Gαi signaling  . At 1 μM , LPA prominently induced chemokinesis in WT CD4+T cells , consistent with previous reports   , but this effect was not observed in Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  . As shown in Figure 7D and E , LPA induced RhoA activation in WT but not Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells . Reminiscent of the findings of Soriano et al for ROCK/myosin II signaling  , LPA noticeably enhanced the CCL21-dependent migration of T cells across a 3-μm- but not 5-μm-pore diameter filter  , and that Lpar2 deficiency abolished the LPA-induced enhancement  . LPA/LPA2 axis regulates T-cell migration in a Rho/ROCK/myosin II-dependent manner . The involvement of ROCK-myosin II signaling in LPA-enhanced cell migration across narrow pores . Lymphocytes were pretreated with the indicated concentrations of blebbistatin  , Y27632  , or PTX  , and were added with LPA to the upper chamber of a Transwell apparatus with a 3-μm-pore filter . After 2 hr , the migrated CD4+ T cells in the lower chambers were counted by flow cytometry . Role of LPA2 in the LPA-induced chemokinesis of CD4+ T cells . WT or Lpar2-/- lymphocytes were added with various concentrations of LPA to the upper chamber . Role of LPA2 in the LPA-induced activation of RhoA . WT and Lpar2-/- T cells were incubated with 1 μM LPA for the periods indicated , and were lysed immediately thereafter . The relative band intensities of LPA-treated WT and Lpar2-/- T cells , normalized to untreated WT and Lpar2-/- T cells , respectively . Effect of LPA on CD4+ T cell migration through Transwell membranes with a pore diameter of 3 or 5 μm . WT lymphocytes pretreated with or without LPA  were applied to the upper chamber , and CCL21  was added to the lower chamber . Role of LPA2 in LPA-induced enhancement of CD4+ T cell chemotaxis toward CCL21 . WT or Lpar2-/- lymphocytes were added with LPA  to the upper chamber and CCL21  was added to the lower chamber . We thus measured cell surface adhesion area in WT and Lpar2-/- T cells by total internal reflection fluorescence  microscopy  . As shown in Figure 8A , B , and D , LPA limited T-cell adhesion area on the fibronectin- or ICAM-1-coated substrate in WT T cells , which was inhibited by treatment of cells with blebbistatin , but this effect was not observed in Lpar2-/- T cells , suggesting that Lpar2-/- T cells over-adhere to substrate coated with or without LFA-1 ligand . Consistently , the LPA/LPA2 signaling induced T-cell elongation in a myosin II-dependent manner , allowing swift cell movement  . LPA/LPA2 axis limits T cell-adhesion area on adhesive substrates . Role of the LPA/LPA2 axis in T cell adhesion and morphology . CMFDA-labeled T cells were incubated on a fibronectin-  or ICAM-1-  coated slide glass , pretreated with or without blebbistatin  , and stimulated with LPA  . The adhesion area of CD4+ cells was assessed by TIRF microscopy   . 018 We finally analyzed LPA's effect on lymphocyte migration in a more complex confined 3D environment using 3D collagen gel  . T cells were placed in type I collagen gel , with LPA placed on one side of the gel and CCL21 plus LPA  on the other . WT T cells efficiently migrated toward CCL21 in the presence of LPA , with increased displacement  and velocity  compared with cells stimulated with CCL21 alone , whereas the directionality of T cell movement in the gel was comparable in the presence or absence of LPA  . In Lpar2-/- T cells , CCL21 did not enhance motility in the presence of LPA  . These results collectively indicate that in confined 3D environments , the LPA-LPA2 axis regulates T-cell motility in a manner dependent on Rho , ROCK , and actomyosin . LPA/LPA2 axis promotes T-cell motility in a confined 3D environment . CCL21  was loaded into one side of the gel , and LPA  was applied to both sides . The migration of eGFP-expressing CD4+ T cells or their Lpar2-/- counterparts was recorded for 120 min by time-lapse microscopy . Involvement of myosin II/ ROCK in LPA-induced T cell motility . After eGFP-expressing CD4+ T cells and WT counterparts were treated with vehicle and indicated inhibitors , respectively , they were mixed with the collagen gel and monitored for cell migration . Effect of LPA on the directionality of T-cell movement in 3D collagen gel . WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells were mixed with collagen gel  . After applying CCL21 into one side of the gel , the T-cell migration in the collagen gel in the presence or absence of LPA was monitored by time-lapse microscopy . 020 Taken together , these results strongly suggest that the LPA2 signaling modulates T cell motility in the confined environments at least partly in an integrin-independent manner and may also act on cell adhesion to prevent over-adhesion to the substrates . LPA produced by FRCs is essential for this LPA2-dependent T-cell motility in densely packed LN parenchyma . LN tissue is densely packed with several types of cells , including lymphocytes , dendritic cells , and mesenchymal stromal cells . Lymphocyte migration in such confined environments is influenced by a delicate balance between actin polymerization/cell adhesion and actomyosin contraction/cell de-adhesion . In this study , we demonstrated that LPA is generated ATX-dependently by FRCs in the LN parenchyma , and that the LPA/LPA2-mediated signal activates Rho/myosin II in T cells . LPA2 signaling enhances T-cell migration in confined 3D collagen matrices and promotes interstitial T-cell migration in LNs in a manner dependent on FRC-derived LPA . These results strongly suggest that the LPA-LPA2 axis critically regulates the confinement-optimized T-cell motility in LNs . We previously reported that ATX and LPA are produced by HEV ECs and pericytes  . In the present study , we found that ATX is also generated by LN FRCs , in agreement with another recent study  , and that multiple LPA species are present in the LN parenchyma; in particular , we showed that LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  are produced in the paracortex in a manner dependent on FRC-derived ATX . Recombinant mouse ATX prefers LPC species with relatively short , unsaturated acyl chains , and produces LPA  , LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  but not LPA   . Consistent with this observation , crystal structural analysis revealed that ATX accommodates LPA  and LPA  but not LPA  in a stable conformation in its hydrophobic pocket , accounting for ATX's preferences for the number of unsaturated bonds of LPC   . While LPA  signals were detected in the LN parenchyma , they were ubiquitously found in other tissues independently of ATX expression; these signals are likely to represent intracellularly produced LPA , an intermediate in the synthesis of triglycerides and glycerophospholipids inside the cell  , which is relatively inert in activating LPA receptors  . Taken together , our findings indicate that multiple biologically relevant LPA species  are produced by FRCs , which may in turn act locally on LPA receptors expressed by adjacent lymphocytes . T-cell motility on a 2D surface requires integrin-mediated adhesive forces and detachment from the integrin substrates , whereas the 3D T-cell motility in LNs only partially requires LFA-1-mediated interactions  . reported that lymphocytes are not restricted to adhesion-dependent motility in 3D environments , and that myosin IIA controls T-cell motility modes—including amoeboid motility , which is dependent on the degree of confinement of 3D environment , and prevents excessive adhesions on non-integrin substrates . In our in vitro model , LPA limited T-cell adhesion area on the fibronectin- and ICAM-1-coated substrate , and promoted chemokine-induced T-cell migration across 3-μm but not 5-μm filter pores and also in a confined collagen gel via LPA2 signaling . In vivo , the LPA/LPA2 axis promoted intranodal T-cell migration even in the absence of interaction between LFA-1 and its ligand . These findings indicate that LPA acts on LPA2 to enhance T-cell motility in chemokine-rich , confined environments at least partly independently of integrin-mediated adhesion or de-adhesion , and this enhancement depends mainly on ROCK/myosin IIA activity . The importance of LPA2 in lymphocyte motility is suggested in recent findings by Knowlden et al  indicating that Lpar2 deficiency in lymphocytes is associated with inefficient lymphocyte movement within LNs , although it was not shown how LPA2-signaling affects lymphocyte migration and what kind of cells provide the ligand for LPA2 . On the other hand , we showed that LPA activated the Rho GTPase in T cells via LPA2 , promoting chemokine-induced T-cell migration across 3-μm- but not 5-μm-pore filters in vitro . We further demonstrated that FRC-derived LPA signaled T cells through LPA2 to sustain optimal T-cell motility in the LN parenchyma . Thus , LPA appears to serve as a cell-extrinsic factor regulating myosin II activity in CD4+ T cells , and the LPA2/ROCK/myosin II signaling pathway is critical for T-cell migration in the confined LN parenchymal environment . In addition , we showed that transferred Lpar2-/- T cells accumulated in LNs more abundantly than WT counterparts 1 . 5–2 hr after the cell transfer  , whereas Knowlden et al showed that Lpar2-deficiency did not affect T-cell trafficking to LNs significantly 42 hr after cell transfer  . It has been shown previously that intravenously injected CD4+ T cells swiftly migrate into LNs and a majority of them reside there for only about 12 hr  before they enter the circulation . Therefore , at the time point used by Knowlden et al  , labeled T cells in LNs might have included those that have re-entered into LNs . We and others previously reported that LPA locally produced by HEV ECs regulates constitutive lymphocyte transmigration across HEVs  . This raises the question of whether LPA produced in the HEV area also affects T-cell motility in the LN parenchyma . Concerning the question of whether LPA produced in the LN parenchyma would affect T-cell extravasation from the HEVs , we found comparable lymphocyte migration across HEVs in Enpp2fl/fl and Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice  . Given that Ccl19-Cre mice express transgenes in FRCs and in the mesenchymal cells ensheathing HEV ECs , but not in HEV ECs  , and that biologically relevant LPA species were produced near HEVs at comparable levels in Ccl19-Cre Enpp2fl/fl mice and Enpp2fl/fl mice  , it appears that ATX produced outside HEVs plays a minor or dispensable role in the lymphocyte transmigration across HEVs . While B cells expressed high levels of Lpar2  , adoptively transferred Lpar2-deficient B cells were not retained in the LN  . Since B cells , like T cells , showed chemokinesis in response to LPA in an LPA2-dependent manner  , B cells may possess functional downstream elements for LPA2-mediated signals . However , whether their intranodal motility depends on motogenic factor  other than LPA requires further investigation . Naïve T cells continuously search for antigen-bearing dendritic cells in the FRC-rich paracortex , and their random migration creates critical opportunities to encounter cognate antigens . It is possible that LPA promotes immune responses by increasing the T cells' chances of encountering dendritic cells . Once activated by TCR stimulation , T cells reduce their migration speed and S1P1 expression , and thus gain time to proliferate and differentiate into effector cells within the LN  . Interestingly , TCR activation is reported to downregulate LPA2expression  , which might reduce the velocity of the T cells and allow them to achieve proper activation . Taken together , our work offers direct evidence that multiple biologically relevant LPA species produced by FRCs in an ATX-dependent manner act locally on LPA2 on T cells . This LPA2-mediated signaling activates the RhoA-ROCK-myosin II pathway and promotes confinement-optimized interstitial T-cell migration in LNs at least partly in an integrin-independent manner . Thus , the LPA-LPA2 axis is an attractive pharmacological target for novel strategies to control immune responses . Lpar2-/- mice and Enpp2-flox mice were provided by Dr . The Lpar5-/- and Lpar6-/- mice will be described elsewhere . APC anti-CD4 , Pacific Blue anti-CD8 , APC-Cy7 anti-B220 , APC anti-gp38 , and biotin anti-CD31 mAbs were purchased from Biolegend  . Streptavidin-BD Horizon V500 was obtained from BD Biosciences  , and LPA  and blebbistatin were from Sigma-Aldrich  . Cells were incubated with PE anti-CD45 , APC anti-gp38 , and biotin anti-CD31 mAbs , followed by streptavidin-BD Horizon V500 . Ions at m/z 437 , 435 , 433 and 457 , which include ions of LPA  , LPA  , LPA  , and LPA  respectively , were fragmented by collision-induced dissociation , and the ions produced were analyzed . The ion at m/z 153 corresponded to the LPA-specific fragment ion . Image reconstruction of the LPA signals was performed with BioMap Software  . Distances between LPA signals and MECA-79+ HEVs were measured with ImageJ software . Briefly , CD4+ T cells were isolated by negative selection kits  from the LNs and spleen of eGFP-expressing and Lpar2-/- mice . Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells were labeled with 5 μM CMTMR  , mixed with an equivalent number of WT CD4+ T cells , and injected into recipient mice  ; 15–25 hr later , the mice were anesthetized using isoflurane admixed with O2 . For evaluating integrin-dependency in LPA-induced T-cell motility , 300 μg of anti-LFA-1 antibody was intravenously injected , and 1 hr later , cell migration was monitored again . Imaris software  was used to track cells in 3D and measure the cells’ velocity and x , y , z coordinates . The directionality of cells’ motion was calculated by dividing cells’ net displacement by the total path length , using over 10-min tracks  . Splenocytes from eGFP-expressing mice and LPA receptor–deficient mice were mixed in equal numbers and incubated with Sulfo-NHS-LC-biotin reagent   for 30 min  . The biotin-labeled cells were injected intravenously into recipient mice  , and the LNs and spleen were harvested 1 . The cell suspension was incubated with APC anti-CD4 , Pacific Blue anti-CD8 , APC-Cy7 anti-B220 mAbs , and streptavidin-PE . The frequencies of T and B cells in GFP+ and GFP- populations of biotinylated cells were analyzed by flow cytometry  . Briefly , WT and Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells  were isolated by negative immunomagnetic cell sorting  and labeled with 5 μM DiD and 5 μM CMTMR  , respectively . The cells were mixed in equal numbers  and injected intravenously into WT mice; after 1 . 2+Lpar2-/- CD4+ T cells were isolated by negative sorting , mixed in equal numbers  , and labeled with 2 μM of CFSE  . The cells were injected intravenously into recipient WT mice; 2 hr later , the LNs and spleen were collected from half of the recipient mice , and 100 μg of anti-L-selectin antibody  was intraperitoneally injected into the rest of the recipient mice; 23 hr later , tissues were harvested from the antibody-treated mice . Negatively sorted CD4+ T cells were incubated in serum-free medium for 30 min at 37°C . Cells were suspended in LPA  -containing or control buffer  and loaded into microchamber wells  , each holding a cover glass precoated with ICAM-1  , and 100 ng of CCL21 was applied to the contra-wells . Cells that migrated toward the contra-wells were counted from the images , and 30 migrating cells were tracked using the ImageJ  manual tracking plug-in . The cells  were added in the presence or absence of LPA to the upper chamber of a Transwell apparatus  and allowed to migrate for 2 hr at 37°C . The spleen and LNs were collected , and a single-cell suspension was prepared in RPMI1640 containing 1% FCS . Next , cells  were stimulated with 1 μM LPA at 37°C for 2 or 5 min . The cells were applied onto human fibronectin  or mouse ICAM-1-Fc  -coated glass slides and starved in serum-free medium  for 2 . The cells were then cultured in the presence or absence of 50 μM blebbistatin for 15 min , followed by stimulation with LPA  for 30 min . After unbound cells were gently washed off , adherent cells were fixed with paraformaldehyde and CD4+ cells were stained by applying Alexa Flour 594-conjugated streptavidin . Surface adhesion zones of CD4+ T cells to the substrate were measured as CMFDA+ area by total internal reflection fluorescence  microscopy  . The aspect ratio was calculated as a ratio of cell length to cell breadth . Negatively sorted CD4+ T cells were incubated in serum-free medium for 1 hr at 37ºC . The final cell and gel concentrations were 9 x 106 cells/ml and 1 . CCL21  and LPA  were loaded into one side of the reservoir , and LPA  was applied to the other side . Fluorescent and phase-contrast images of migrating cells were acquired at 1-min intervals for 3 hr at 37°C using an inverted microscope  , and 30 migrating cells were manually tracked and their velocity measured using ImageJ software . "
"H3-G34R specifically reduces H3K36 tri-methylation and H3K36 acetylation , and mutants show partial transcriptional overlap with set2 deletions . H3-G34R mutants exhibit genomic instability and increased replication stress , including slowed replication fork restart , although DNA replication checkpoints are functional . H3-G34R mutants are defective for DNA damage repair by homologous recombination  , and have altered HR protein dynamics in both damaged and untreated cells . These data suggest H3-G34R slows resolution of HR-mediated repair and that unresolved replication intermediates impair chromosome segregation . This analysis of H3-G34R mutant fission yeast provides mechanistic insight into how G34R mutation may promote genomic instability in glioma . The genomic DNA of eukaryotes is packaged into chromatin , which regulates all DNA transactions including transcription , replication and repair . 3 is a non-canonical H3 variant , whose deposition is not linked to replication and which can accumulate in post-mitotic cells and in areas of high transcriptional activity  . To gain biological insight into the role of the G34R mutant , we engineered fission yeast to express either wild-type or G34R mutant histone H3 . We hypothesized that H3-G34R mutation may reduce Set2 function and influence important chromatin-templated processes such as DNA transcription , replication and repair , which are highly conserved between fission yeast and human . Here , we show that histone H3-G34R mutation specifically reduced tri-methylation , but not di-methylation of H3K36 , and caused a decrease in H3K36 acetylation . However , G34R mutants displayed different phenotypes to set2Δ , suggesting that defective H3K36 modification may not be the sole defect in G34R . H3-G34R mutants showed chromosome instability and sensitivities to DNA damaging agents which are distinct from cells lacking Set2 . H3-G34R mutants had defects in HR-directed repair , which may be attributed to a delay in DNA repair dynamics at compromised replication forks . Using di- or tri-methylated K36 H3 peptides as targets , we identified two anti-K36me3 antibodies that were minimally affected by G34R mutation , and one antibody against K36me2 whose binding was weakened ~10 fold by the G34R mutation  . Using these antibodies , we found that H3K36me3 was markedly reduced in H3-G34R compared to H3-WT cell extracts , but that H3K36me2 levels were unchanged  . As we observed that binding of the H3K36me2 antibody is reduced ~10 fold on G34R peptides , these results suggest that K36me2 is elevated in H3-G34R cells . Thus Set2 function is altered in H3-G34R cells , with specific reduction of H3K36me3 and retention/ accumulation of H3K36me2 . Since endogenously tagged Set2-FLAG protein levels were similar in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells  , the reduction in H3K36me3 is not caused by a loss of set2+ expression in H3-G34R cells . Additionally , chromatin immunoprecipitation  analysis revealed that Set2-FLAG recruitment to chromatin was not reduced in H3-G34R cells  , suggesting that the H3-G34R mutation hinders Set2 activity but not access to K36 . We therefore asked if we could force the generation of H3K36me3 in H3-G34R cells by overexpression of the Set2 methyltransferase  . Western analysis of extracts prepared from cells that overexpress Set2 showed that pSet2-FLAG restored K36me2 and me3 in H3-WT set2Δ strains but was able to generate only low levels of H3K36me3 in both H3-G34R and H3-G34R set2Δ cells  . Thus the H3-G34R mutation reduces Set2 activity on the H3 tail , leading to a specific reduction in tri-methylation of H3K36 , and this effect cannot be bypassed by overexpression of Set2 . To address whether H3-G34R impedes acetylation at H3K36 , we used quantitative mass spectrometry to perform targeted analysis of acetylation of tails of histone H3 and H4 in histones acid extracted from H3-WT , H3-G34R and set2Δ strains   . These studies showed acetylation of K36 on histone H3 was greatly reduced in H3-G34R strains and somewhat reduced in set2Δ . Additionally , there was a slight upregulation of H3K18 acetylation and possibly enhanced K27 acetylation in H3-G34R , although K27 acetylation in H3-WT was highly variable . set2Δ cells showed more widespread changes , with a slight reduction of H4 K16 acetylation , some induction of H3K9 and K18 acetylation and a marked increase in H3K14 acetylation . In summary , H3-G34R cells showed a focal pattern of chromatin changes centered on inefficient tri-methylation and reduced acetylation of histone H3K36 , whereas set2Δ effects were more widespread . H3K36me3 and H3K36 acetylation have been shown to be cell cycle regulated  , with K36me3 accumulating in G1 and early-mid S phase . We assessed the consequence of H3-G34R mutation on K36me3 accumulation at several stages of the cell cycle , using cells synchronized in G1 , S , G2 and M phases  . Although levels of H3K36me3 were reduced in H3-G34R cells compared to H3-WT at all stages of the cell cycle  , H3K36me3 did accumulate in both H3-WT and H3-G34R cells synchronized in G1 , indicative that the G34R mutation does not override cell cycle control of Set2 function . Additionally , this experiment also demonstrates that H3K36me2 levels are higher throughout the cell cycle in H3-G34R compared to H3-WT cells . Post-translational modifications of H3K36 are important for transcriptional control , raising the possibility of transcriptional disruption in H3-G34R cells . Cells that lack the H3K36 methyltransferase Set2 or that express a mutant of Set2 that allows only di-methylation of K36 show a similar widespread transcriptional upregulation in fission yeast  , suggesting that H3K36me2 is not sufficient for silencing . Since H3-G34R cells exhibit reduced H3K36me3 and possibly enhanced K36me2 , as well as a reduction in H3K36Ac , we asked how H3-G34R mutation influences transcriptional control . H3-G34R mutants show a distinct transcriptional profile to set2Δ cells . Schematic of genes that are  differentially-regulated , or  similarly down-regulated or up-regulated comparing either H3-G34R or set2Δ cells with H3-WT cells in RNA-seq analyses . RNA-seq profiles for chromosomes I , II , and III comparing Log fold change ratios for H3-G34R/H3-WT or set2Δ/H3 WT plotted against chromosome coordinates . Density plots of RNA seq reads for sense  and antisense transcripts  against log fold change ratios for set2Δ/H3 WT  and H3-G34R/H3 WT  . These domains are silenced in WT cells , so clr4Δ cells that lack heterochromatin represent a positive control . Chromatin immunoprecipitation  of H3K9me2 and  Swi6 in the indicated cells at either the dh or tlh loci relative to adh1+ . 007 143 genes were deregulated in both H3-G34R and set2Δ cells: 97 were coordinately regulated , with 9 genes downregulated , and 88 genes upregulated in both set2Δ and H3-G34R  . As can be seen on chromosome-wide plots  , transcripts that are differentially regulated between H3-G34R and set2Δ map to regions adjacent to subtelomeric regions of chromosome 1 and 2  , which are not heterochromatic and are normally expressed at low levels  . We confirmed gene regulation trends for 2 genes from ST domains by real time qPCR  , and additionally show that transcript levels for these genes in the double mutant , H3-G34R set2Δ , are similar to set2Δ cells . Focusing on just these antisense transcripts , of which there are 635 in fission yeast , we found that , compared to H3-WT cells , 318 were differentially regulated in set2Δ , and 62 in H3-G34R mutants , with the vast majority being upregulated   . Therefore H3-G34R cells , similar to set2Δ cells , upregulate antisense transcripts , indicative that trimethylation of K36 may repress antisense transcription . There is some overlap with Set2-mediated control as shown by similar regulation of some sense and some antisense genes , but also differences as evidenced by opposite regulation of transcription with sub-subtelomeric domains . We conclude that suppression of antisense gene transcription appears linked to trimethylation of K36 , as it is reduced in both H3-G34R and set2Δ , and that repression of sub-subtelomeric domains may be linked to dimethylation of K36 in H3-G34R , as it is abolished in set2Δ or compound set2Δ H3-G34R mutants that lack dimethylation of K36 . To determine whether constitutive heterochromatin that forms on repetitive sequences was affected by H3-G34R mutation , we monitored transcripts from pericentromeric loci and the subtelomeric tlh genes in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells  , with clr4Δ serving as a control for loss of heterochromatin  . Transcript levels were similar in H3-G34R and H3-WT , suggesting that heterochromatin is intact in H3-G34R mutants , whereas set2Δ showed a slight upregulation in subtelomeric tlh transcripts . ChIP against Cnp1  , the fission yeast CENP-A protein that underlies and supports kinetochore assembly , showed no change in Cnp1 recruitment to centromeric central core sequences in H3-G34R mutant cells  . Together , the lack of apparent effect on kinetochore or heterochromatic structures indicates that the architecture of centromeric and telomeric heterochromatin is intact in H3-G34R cells . We next tested genomic stability in H3-G34R mutants by monitoring the frequency of chromosome loss using a non-essential minichromosome Ch16  . As expected , H3-WT cells showed low levels of loss of Ch16   and cells lacking the heterochromatin protein Swi6HP1 displayed high frequencies of Ch16 loss  . Interestingly , we found that H3-G34R cells lost minichromosomes at an elevated frequency  , while minichromosome loss in set2Δ was not significantly upregulated  . We further tested for specific chromosome segregation defects in H3-G34R strains by monitoring frequencies of lagging chromosomes on late anaphase spindles , using anti-tubulin antibodies to stain the spindle , and DAPI to stain DNA   . Counting only late anaphase cells  , we found that chromosomes mis-segregated in 7 . 6% in clr4Δ cells that lack heterochromatin . Furthermore , in cells synchronized using an nda3-KM311 early mitotic block and release  , and stained for tubulin and DNA , ~38% of H3-G34R cells showed stretching of DNA or aberrantly positioned DNA on mid to late anaphase spindles compared with ~14% of H3-WT cells  . Together , these data show that the H3-G34R cells exhibit elevated chromosomal instability , which is independent of heterochromatin or kinetochore defects . The nature of the chromosome segregation defects in H3-G34R cells is suggestive of a defect in DNA condensation or resolution of sister chromatids after DNA replication  . H3-G34R cells exhibit genomic instability . Frequency of cells that lose the non-essential minichromosome Ch16 in H3-WT , H3-G34R , set2Δ and swi6Δ cells . Frequency of late anaphase cells that show a lagging chromosome in H3-WT , G34R , set2Δ , and clr4Δ . G34R and clr4Δ have small p values  although not significantly different from WT  Frequency of cells with chromosome segregation defects in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells . Cells were synchronized using nda3-KM311 and chromosome segregation phenotypes were scored in cells with different spindle lengths . 008 Since H3-G34R cells show increased chromosomal instability , and are reduced in histone H3 K36 acetylation and tri-methylation , which are modifications that are linked to DNA damage responses  , we tested H3-G34R strains for sensitivity to DNA damaging agents . Cells were plated on media containing hydroxyurea  , camptothecin  , or methyl methanesulfonate   . At the concentrations used , each of these agents predominantly affects DNA replication  , or requires DNA replication to inflict DNA damage  . We found that chronic exposure to each genotoxin resulted in significant sensitivity of H3-G34R cells compared with H3-WT cells . Conversely , when H3-G34R and H3-WT cells were exposed to gamma irradiation  or bleomycin , two replication-independent genotoxins , H3-G34R mutants showed no sensitivity , whereas set2Δ cells were sensitive to γIR and bleomycin  as seen previously  . Thus H3-G34R , but not set2Δ cells appear selectively sensitive to agents that generate DNA replication stress . H3-G34R mutants show DNA damage sensitivity upon replication stress . Effect of γ−irradiation  exposure on viability of H3-WT , H3-G34R , set2Δ , and rad51Δ cells . Serial dilution assay showing the genotoxin sensitivity of H3-WT , H3-G34R , H3-WT set2Δ , and H3-G34R set2Δ cells upon MMS , CPT , or HU treatment . 009 To further address the relationship of the H3-G34R mutant with Set2 , we tested genetic interactions between set2Δ and H3-G34R . In the absence of damage , there were no synthetic growth defects in the set2Δ H3-G34R double mutant . set2Δ were more sensitive than H3-G34R to MMS and CPT , but showed similar sensitivity to H3-G34R on HU . Additive growth defects were seen for set2Δ H3-G34R double mutants on CPT and MMS , but not with HU  . Repair of damage from CPT or MMS-induced lesions likely involves the use of Holliday junctions , whereas recovery from HU-induced stress generally does not  . The enhanced sensitivity of double mutants to CPT and MMS may indicate that set2Δ and H3-G34R mutants are defective in distinct aspects of HR-mediated repair requiring assembly of Holliday junctions . We further asked whether overexpression of Set2 could compensate for the DNA damage sensitivities of H3-G34R cells . Whereas pSet2-FLAG overexpression fully compensated for set2Δ growth defects on damaging agents , no growth advantage was conferred on H3-G34R cells  . However , since Set2 overexpression cannot compensate for H3K36me3 in H3-G34R cells  , it is unclear whether the DNA damage sensitivity of H3-G34R cells is linked to the lack of efficient tri-methylation on K36 . We have shown that H3-G34R mutants are sensitive to chronic exposure to replication stress . DNA damage checkpoint signaling is conserved in fission yeast   . Following DNA damage , the upstream sensor kinases Rad3  and Tel1  phosphorylate histone H2A on a C-terminal serine to generate γH2A and activate the downstream DNA damage checkpoint kinases Chk1  and the replication checkpoint kinase Cds1  . H3-G34R cells have intact DNA replication checkpoints . Western blot analysis of γ-H2A phosphorylation in WT , G34R , and set2Δ cells . Cells were collected ±4 hr treatment with 15 mM HU or 0 . 05% MMS treated H3-WT and H3-G34R cells . Cells with all three H3/H4 genes  serve as control . RPA  immunofluorescence of indicated strains in either untreated conditions or after 6 hr release following 4 hr of 11 mM HU treatment . Immunofluorescence imaging of DAPI stained cells for analysis of checkpoint-dependent cell elongation after treatment with 11 mM HU for 4 hr . Combinations of checkpoint mutants  with either H3-WT or H3-G34R mutations were assessed . 010 To address whether DNA damage checkpoint signaling is functional in H3-G34R cells , we first monitored phosphorylation of H2A  . Western analyses of cells treated with HU or MMS showed no differences in γH2A phosphorylation levels in H3-G34R or set2Δ strains compared to H3-WT , indicative that the function of upstream kinases is not perturbed in H3-G34R cells  . Next , we monitored phosphorylation-related mobility shifts of Chk1-HA and found that Chk1 was efficiently activated by MMS treatment in H3-G34R cells , suggesting that DNA damage checkpoint signaling was normal   . To assess Cds1 replication checkpoint function , we performed HU treatment of H3-G34R cells since , in cds1Δ cells , prolonged DNA synthesis occurs both during HU treatment and after release . Cells were arrested in HU , and RPA foci monitored 6 hr post-release . In contrast to the ‘flares’ of RPA seen in cds1Δ after release , H3-G34R showed no accumulation of RPA foci  , supporting that the Cds1 pathway is functional in H3-G34R mutants . Finally , we tested H3-G34R in combination with checkpoint mutants for their ability to arrest after a prolonged exposure to genotoxin  , which can be monitored by elongation of the cells as an indication of proper checkpoint arrest . Control cells lacking both checkpoints  failed to arrest after HU treatment , as indicated by their short length and entry into lethal mitoses with incompletely replicated chromosomes   . Cells lacking either cds1 or chk1 elongated properly , likely arrested by compensation of the other kinase . H3-G34R cds1Δ and H3-G34R chk1Δ double mutants also arrested normally as elongated cells , suggesting that both checkpoints are intact in H3-G34R  . In summary , DNA damage checkpoint signaling appears to be functional in H3-G34R cells . Thus far , we have shown that H3-G34R mutants exhibit genomic instability that does not involve disruption of heterochromatin  , that they are sensitive to DNA replication stress  , and have functional DNA damage checkpoint signaling  . We next assessed DNA damage repair pathways in H3-G34R cells  . First we asked how cells recover from replication stress . After HU treatment , completion of DNA replication occurs without the need for Origin Replication Complex  activity . However , some mutants that are sensitive to replication stress , such as a mutant of the PTIP homolog  , brc1Δ , require ORC to recover from HU arrest  . We tested whether H3-G34R cells depend on ORC to recover from HU , by use of a temperature sensitive allele in ORC , orp1-4 . Cells were synchronized with HU at 25°C , and released at either 25° or 36°C for 4 hr prior to plating  . As expected , any orp1-4 cells that are released to 36°C die  , whereas orp1-4 H3-WT cells that are HU arrested and released at 25°C survive . Thus , H3-G34R cells do not rely on ORC to recover from HU-imposed replication stress . H3-G34R cells show defects in homologous recombination pathways . Cells of indicated genotypes were cultured at 25°C in the presence or absence of 11 mM HU for 6 . Cells were then plated at 25°C to determine cell viability . Serial 5-fold dilution assays of H3-WT or H3-G34R cells and double mutants with  PRR pathway mutants rad18Δ or ubc13Δ ,  NHEJ mutant ku70Δ or  HR mutant rad51Δ plated on media ± MMS treatment . Cells of indicated genotypes were transformed with a leu1 gene fragment to measure HR , or plasmid to measure transformation efficiency . Relative HR efficiency is shown as 100% for H3-WT , and results are averaged from 6 independent experiments with error bars representing SEM . Black asterisks reflect significant differences with H3-WT cells  , and red asterisks , significant differences from both H3-G34R and set2Δ  . Percentage of cells that form foci of either RPA  , Rad52-GFP , or Rad51 before or after treatment with 0 . Immunostaining with GFP antibodies was used for monitoring RPA and Rad52 while anti-Rad51 antibodies were used to detect Rad51 . Cells were counted from 2 independent experiments with errors representing SEM . Characterization of H3-G34R and set2Δ cells in homologous recombination-directed repair . All cells contained a point mutant in leu1 gene  and were transformed with either plasmid DNA to assess transformation efficiency , or a PCR-generated fragment of the leu1+ gene . Following transformation , colonies that grew on PMG-leu plates were counted since they had undergone HR-directed repair to correct the leu1 gene . Efficiency of HR in WT and set2Δ cells with either normal histone complement  or sole copy histone complement . Efficiency of HR in WT or set2Δ or ku70Δ cells with normal histone complement  . set2Δ cells tested were from  Partridge lab or  set2ΔKAN or  set2Δura4+ from Humphrey lab  . FACS analysis of cdc10-M17 arrested and released cells  on the left , or mitotically arrested and released cells  on right . Localization of homologous recombination-directed repair proteins in H3-G34R cells . Representative images showing foci formation of RPA  or Rad52-YFP in either H3-WT or H3-G34R backgrounds . Western blot analysis depicting the total levels of Rad51 and Rad52 in either H3-WT or H3-G34R cells before and after treatment with 0 . Cells lacking rad51 or containing the rad52-YFP allele serve as antibody-specificity controls . Representative images depicting foci formation and co-localization of RPA  and Rad52-YFP in either H3-WT or H3-G34R backgrounds before  or after treatment with 0 . cdc10-m17 cells carrying Rad11-GFP  in H3-G34R background were arrested in G1 and released at 25°C before fixation . Representative cells from 150 min after release with ultrafine anaphase bridges labeled by RPA-GFP are shown . 014 Next , we systematically mutated genes that are key to well defined DNA repair pathways in H3-G34R and H3-WT cells . We mutated genes for post-replication repair  , non-homologous end joining  , and homologous recombination  in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells  . To test PRR , we generated combination mutants of H3-G34R with either rad18  or ubc13   . H3-G34R mutants with either of these mutations show synergistic sensitivity to MMS , suggesting that the PRR pathways are functional in H3-G34R cells  . Combination mutants of H3-G34R were generated with mutants in Ku70 , a subunit of the Ku complex responsible for recognizing double strand breaks   . H3-G34R showed synergistic defects with ku70Δ when assessed on MMS compared with either single mutant , indicating that NHEJ is functional in H3-G34R cells  . Furthermore , we assessed the genotoxin sensitivity of H3-G34R in combination with a mutant necessary for HR-directed repair . In contrast to mutations with PRR or NHEJ proteins , H3-G34R rad51Δ double mutants showed epistasis with single mutants when plated on MMS  . This suggests that H3-G34R cells have a defective HR pathway . We transformed leu1-32 mutant cells  with a 576 bp fragment of wild type leu1+ and scored leu1+ transformants that can only arise by HR , normalizing for transformation efficiencies of strains using plasmid DNA  . As expected , rad51Δ cells were very defective with HR rates of only ~3% of H3-WT cells . H3-G34R and set2Δ strains were also defective  and the double H3-G34R set2Δ mutant showed an even stronger defect , with a 90% drop in HR efficiency . The reduction in HR in set2Δ was not due to the genetic background , as we obtained similar results when set2Δ was assessed in a 3xH3/H4 genetic background  . Thus both H3-G34R and set2Δ reduce HR efficiency but via distinct mechanisms , as additive defects are seen in the set2Δ H3-G34R double mutant . We note that our finding of an HR defect in set2Δ differs from the previously published result of enhanced HR and defective NHEJ in 3xH3/H4 set2Δ cells as described in Pai et al . The authors monitored four different markers for loss , and interpret combinations of marker loss as NHEJ-repair , gene conversion , loss of heterozygosity and loss of the chromosome . We sought to determine if the difference in interpretation of Set2 function was indeed caused by the different assays or by strain differences between the set2Δ backgrounds . We performed the transformation-based HR assay in the set2Δ strains used in Pai et al . , 2014 , and in NHEJ defective ku70Δ cells  , and found that all set2Δ strains tested showed a defect in HR , whereas HR efficiency was strongly enhanced in ku70Δ , as HR is now the sole method of DNA break repair available . We conclude that the difference in interpretation of whether set2Δ cells are deficient in HR lies with the use of distinct assays . In fission yeast , NHEJ is restricted to G1 , while HR operates in S and G2 phases of the cell cycle  . One possible cause of the decreased HR in H3-G34R cells and the dependence of H3-G34R cells on NHEJ for viability  is an alteration in the cell cycle , with an extension of G1 . We measured the generation time during exponential growth and found that H3-G34R had an extended doubling time of 201 min  compared to 180 min  for H3-WT , and 194 min  for set2Δ in rich media at 32°C . To determine if the growth delay of H3-G34R mutants was linked to a particular cell cycle stage , we monitored cell cycle kinetics using FACS sorting of cells synchronized in G1 or in metaphase and then released back into the cycle at 25°C . As shown in Figure 6—figure supplement 2 , cdc10-M17  arrested and released cells begin DNA synthesis at 40 min after release . H3-WT cells have completed DNA synthesis by 80–100 min , whereas S phase is prolonged in H3-G34R cells and not completed until 140–160 min after release . It is difficult to draw conclusions from the nda3-km311 arrest and release experiment since fission yeast do not undergo cytokinesis until G1 , which complicates analysis of G1 cells . From these data we can surmise that H3-G34R cells spend longer in S phase when released from a G1/S block . We evaluated foci formation of RPA , Rad51 , and Rad52  . Consistent with enhanced replication stress in H3-G34R cells , H3-G34R cells showed increased numbers of RPA and Rad52 foci  . As expected , all cells showed increased foci for all three proteins following MMS treatment . Surprisingly however , fewer MMS-treated H3-G34R cells showed Rad51 and Rad52 foci compared with H3-WT and set2Δ . The reduction in foci was not linked to a change in protein expression as Rad51 and Rad52 protein levels were similar in MMS treated H3-WT and H3-G34R cells  . Additionally , Rad52 foci co-localized with RPA , suggesting that Rad52 foci occur at sites of DNA damage  . In summary , H3-G34R cells exhibit elevated marks of replicative stress , and on MMS-damage , have diminished foci formation for Rad51 and Rad52 , which may be linked to the HR defect seen in H3-G34R cells . To address this , we monitored RPA localization in anaphase cells following cdc10 block and release , and found that H3-G34R cells exhibit anaphase bridges , with RPA marking ultrafine bridges between DAPI staining masses  . We are unable to determine the frequency of these bridges in anaphase cells since attempts to co-stain the spindle hampered visualization of bridges , but they were easy to identify in synchronized populations suggesting that they are frequent events . This supports that chromosome segregation defects in H3-G34R cells are linked to the delayed resolution of replication intermediates . HR-directed repair is often utilized to restart replication forks following stress . Because we observed a defect in HR , and a defect in Rad51 and Rad52 foci formation in MMS-treated H3-G34R cells , we speculated whether this was due to a delay in Rad51/Rad52 filament formation , and thus a defect in replication restart . To address whether the kinetics of recovery were affected , cells were arrested with HU , washed , and then counted at intervals following release  . Checkpoint-defective cds1Δ cells do not recover from the arrest . To directly monitor the rate of DNA replication , we arrested cells with HU and on release , monitored de novo DNA synthesis by EdU incorporation , gating on cells that had fully incorporated EdU  . Interestingly , de novo DNA synthesis is initially delayed in H3-G34R cells but at later time points after HU release , the rates of DNA synthesis appear similar in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells . Cell proliferation of H3-WT , H3-G34R , and cds1Δ cells was analyzed after synchronization in 11 mM HU for 4 hr . Cells were counted at 30 min intervals following release . WT and G34R cells were synchronized in 11 mM HU for 4 hr and released into fresh media containing EdU and collected and ethanol fixed over a time course . EdU was labeled by ClickIT with Alexa Fluor 488 and samples were analyzed by FACS , gating on cells that fully incorporated EdU . Time course to analyze  γH2A by western blotting or  Rad52  foci formation in H3-WT and H3-G34R cells during treatment with 0 . 015 To further evaluate the kinetics of DNA damage response , we monitored γH2A phosphorylation  and counted cells that bear Rad52 foci  during MMS treatment and recovery . MMS treatment led to a rapid induction of γH2A signal in H3-WT cells , such that at 45 min treatment , maximal signal was achieved which was retained during treatment . Surprisingly , γH2A signal accumulated more slowly in H3-G34R cells , and peaked at 45 min into the recovery period , at higher levels than seen in H3-WT cells . On recovery from MMS , γH2A remained intensely phosphorylated at later time points in H3-G34R cells compared with H3-WT cells  . Similar to γH2A , Rad52 foci accumulated faster in MMS treated H3-WT cells than H3-G34R , even though more Rad52 foci were present in untreated H3-G34R cells than in H3-WT  . During recovery , H3-WT cells with Rad52 foci dropped to ~50% by 180 mins while Rad52 foci continued to accumulate in H3-G34R , peaking at 90 min following release , before dropping . These data suggest that the kinetics of DNA damage response are different between H3-WT and H3-G34R cells , with H3-G34R mutants showing a slower induction of damage response , as well as accumulation of recombination proteins at later timepoints following damage , which may contribute to the HR-mediated repair defect in H3-G34R mutants . In this study , we generated single copy histone mutants in fission yeast with the aim of studying the behavior of the H3-G34R mutant . Using this system , we show that H3-G34R mutants have focal histone modification changes , with reduced tri-methylation and acetylation , but retention of di-methylation on the nearby K36 residue on histone H3 . These results are consistent with some perturbation of Set2 function and we demonstrate that this defect cannot be overridden by overexpression of Set2 as , even under these conditions , H3-G34R cells fail to accumulate normal levels of H3K36me3 . Transcriptional upregulation in ST domains in set2Δ is likely a direct consequence of loss of Set2 function on H3K36 , since the histone H3 K36A mutant shows similar upregulation of expression of ST domains  . We see evidence for enhanced chromosome loss and for defects in chromosome segregation , with accumulation of cells that have trailing or ‘stretched’ chromosomes . We find that RPA coats ultrafine anaphase bridges in mitotic H3-G34R cells , marking DNA that links chromosome masses , which is indicative of unresolved replication problems . These data are consistent with our finding that H3-G34R cells are sensitive to replication stress , and that HR pathways are defective in these cells . These phenotypes are unlikely to be due to transcriptional deregulation in H3-G34R cells since transcription of DNA damage genes , under non-perturbed conditions , is unaltered . Instead , as summarized in Figure 8 , these findings may derive from the altered kinetics of signal response to damage in H3-G34R cells , with slowed accumulation of γH2A and delayed formation of Rad52 foci , features which may also contribute to the delayed replication of H3-G34R cells during recovery from replication stress . H3-G34R mutation may thus impair HR-mediated repair of DNA damage induced DSBs . Model illustrating how HR defects in H3-G34R mutants may compromise genomic integrity . Model illustrates the key defects in H3-G34R cells and how these may contribute to genomic instability . To cope with replication stress , cells activate the checkpoint signaling pathway by sensing ssDNA via Rad3 . Rad3 interacts with ssDNA through RPA and phosphorylates H2A , which helps to transduce the checkpoint response to downstream kinases . For lesions that require HR-directed repair , nucleosome removal and subsequent 5’ to 3’ DNA resection exposes ssDNA which is initially coated with RPA , and then replaced by Rad51 , facilitated by the Rad52 protein . The search for a homologous template can begin once sufficient Rad51-ssDNA filament has been formed and strand invasion of the Rad51-ssDNA filament generates Holiday junctions which need to be resolved prior to cell division . In H3-G34R cells , HR is defective . Checkpoint signaling is functional , but appears delayed with slower accumulation of γH2A possibly due to impaired nucleosome removal and delayed resection , which would limit the amount of Rad3 on RPA/DNA . Retention of γH2A indicates a defect in nucleosome removal and resection which in turn , could account for the delayed Rad52 foci formation in H3-G34R cells and likely delayed Holiday junction resolution following repair . H3-G34R cells show elevated chromosome segregation defects without defects in heterochromatin or kinetochore chromatin , suggestive that a delayed resolution of HR products contributes to genomic instability . However this seems unlikely given that cells that lack Set2 show no defects in chromosome segregation , and the HR defects that we uncovered in set2Δ cells are not epistatic to HR defects in H3-G34R cells . Another alternative is that the altered kinetics for γH2A phosphorylation and Rad52 foci formation during MMS treatment and recovery are indicative of chromatin defects in the H3-G34R cells . However , checkpoint signaling is clearly functional in H3-G34R cells , even if it is delayed  . Once damage has occurred , H3-G34R cells retain γH2A for longer than H3-WT  . H3-G34R cells show defects in HR-directed repair . After sufficient resection of DNA , Rad52 helps to facilitate the exchange from RPA-coated DNA to a Rad51-coated filament , to allow for homology searching and HR repair . Here , we show that H3-G34R mutants are specifically deficient for HR  with prolonged retention of γH2A and delayed Rad52 foci formation  . It is possible that H3-G34R cells are defective in timely nucleosome removal and resection  . Following this model , delayed HR-mediated repair in H3-G34R cells , or delayed resolution of replicative intermediates in undamaged H3-G34R cells , may allow accumulation of unresolved Holliday junctions prior to mitosis , and contribute to the chromosome segregation defects shown in this study  . X foci in human cells that lack H3K36me3 due to deletion of SETD2 is delayed  , and such cells are defective for HR and exhibit genomic instability  . 3 protein is affected in cells with 13 other genes that encode wild type H3 . As cells traverse S phase , the replicative delay incurred by the presence of G34R mutant H3 . pSet2-3xFLAG vector for overexpression of Set2  was generated by amplification of an endogenously tagged Set2 strain  using primers JPO-4159 and JPO-4160 , and cloned into pREP41  using Clontech in-fusion cloning kit . 4 × 106 cells/mL in 4X YES media from a starter culture grown overnight in 4X YES at 25°C . 6 × 107 cells/mL and harvested by spinning at 3000 RPM for five minutes in a benchtop centrifuge . Cells were washed with H2O containing 10 mM sodium butyrate . The cells were then washed with NIB buffer  . Cells were washed in ice-cold Stop Buffer  prior to processing for PFGE as described previously  . Loss of Ch16 causes loss of complementation of function of ade6+ and accumulation of red pigment when cells are grown on limiting adenine media . Strains containing Ch16 were grown in PMG –Leu  at 32°C to a density of 5 × 106 cells/mL . Cells were diluted in PMG  to a final concentration of 5−10 × 103 cells/mL . Cells were plated onto PMG agar supplemented with amino acids and nucleobases with limiting  adenine , incubated at 25°C for 5 days and then transferred to 4°C to let red color develop . Results represent data from multiple  independent cultures of cells , and 5−10 × 103 colonies were scored for each strain . 220 late anaphase cells were scored for presence of lagging chromosomes for each genotype , using two independent cultures of strains . nda3-km311 mutant  in H3-WT and H3-G34R backgrounds was used to synchronize cells in mitotic phase . Cells were grown in YES to 5 × 106 cells/ml at 32°C , then were filtered to rapidly collect cells and transferred to media at 18°C for 8 hr . Cells were released to warm media at 32°C and aliquots fixed at 15 min intervals in 3 . Cell lysates were fractionated using a method modified from  . Briefly , cell pellets from 50 ml cultures in YES were washed with NIB  and resuspended in 1 ml NIB . Cells were disrupted with glass beads  using a bead beater and extracted into urea lysis buffer ( 8 M urea , 100 mM NaH2PO4 , 10 mM Tris pH 8 , 60 mM β-glycerophosphate , 1% Triton X-100 with protease inhibitor cocktail  and 1 mM PMSF ) . Anti-H3K36me2: Abcam ab9049 , Anti-H3K36me3: Abcam ab9050 , Cell signaling technology 4909 . 5 hr , blocked in 5% BSA in PBST at RT for 1 hr , incubated with primary Ab for 1 hr at RT , washed with PBST , incubated with HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary Ab for 30 min , washed with PBST and then developed with enhanced chemiluminescence and images captured by LiCor imaging . Set2-3xFLAG ChIP used Anti-FLAG:  and monitored Set2 association with act1+ or clr4+ loci as a ratio of signal from input DNA . 5 × 106 cells/ml in a 25 mL culture . The reaction was incubated at 37°C for 30 min and another 5 ul of Turbo DNAse was added and incubated for an additional 30 min prior to the removal of the DNAse using 50 ul of inactivation beads . Libraries were prepared using the TruSeq Strand Total RNA Library Prep Kit , beginning at Elution 2 – Fragment – Prime step immediately preceding cDNA synthesis according to the manufacturer instructions  with the following modifications; the 94 C Elution 2 – Fragment – Prime incubation was reduced to five minutes and the PCR was reduced to 11 cycles . Real-time Q-PCR was performed on random primed cDNA generated from two independent RNA preps for each strain as previously described  using primers  that had been tested for linear amplification parameters , and working within the Ct range of linear amplification and using an Eppendorf Mastercycler RealPlex2 machine . Cells were grown in PMG complete media ± 11 mM HU for 4 hr at 30°C . Cells expressing Rad52–YFP  or Rad11–GFP  in H3-WT and H3-G34R backgrounds were fixed with 70% ethanol or with 3% formaldehyde . For co-localization , H3-WT and H3-G34R cells co-expressing Rad52–RFP and Rad11-GFP were fixed with 0 . Rad51  was detected by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy as described previously  using cells fixed with 3% paraformaldehyde . S129 phosphorylated histone H2A  was detected with a phosphorylation-specific antibody  at 1:100 dilution using cells fixed in 1 . Two independent experiments were performed for each analysis and 300 cells were counted for each genotype and condition . Cells expressing Rad11–GFP  were cultured in PMG complete medium to 5 × 106 cells/ml at 30°C  , or were treated with 11 mM HU for 4 hr . Cells were washed by filtration , resuspended in fresh medium and grown at 30°C for 6 hr  . cdc10-m17 cells expressing Rad11-GFP  were cultured in YES medium at 25°C , shifted to the restrictive temperature of 36°C for 4 hr and then released to 25°C . Cells were collected at 30 min intervals , fixed with 3% formaldehyde , and a portion were processed for IF with anti-tubulin antibodies to determine the best time point for capture of late anaphase cells . The remaining cells were DAPI stained and imaged for DAPI and GFP fluorescence . Cells collected at the indicated time points were fixed in ice-cold 70% ethanol . Cells were washed twice in 20 mM EDTA and incubated with 100 ug/mL RNase A  overnight at 36C . Five-fold serial dilution assays were performed using exponentially growing cells and were spotted on agar plates with 1 . For chronic exposure assay , cells were grown to a density of 5 × 106 cells/ml . A fivefold serial dilution was spotted onto PMG complete agar plates ± HU , on YES agar plates with DMSO or DMSO and CPT , and on YES agar plates ± MMS . Cells at a density of 5 × 106 cells/ml were irradiated using a Cobalt source , and 100 ul samples were taken following increments of 200 Gy exposure  . Cells were plated on 6 YES plates for each assay condition , and colonies scored following incubation at 32°C for 4 days . The experiment was performed twice to obtain average viability of treated versus untreated cells , and error bars represent the SEM . HU synchronization and release  : cells were cultured in PMG complete medium to 5 × 106 cells/ml at 30°C and were treated with 11 mM HU for 4 hr . Cells were washed by filtration , resuspended in fresh medium and grown at 30°C . The experiment was repeated twice and average cell numbers were plotted ± SEM . HU synchronization and release of orp1-4 strains  : Cells were grown at 25°C in PMG complete medium and treated ±11 mM HU for 6 . Cells were washed by filtration , resuspended in fresh medium and incubated at 25 or 36°C for 4 hr before aliquots were plated and incubated at 25°C . HU synchronization and EdU labeling  : This experiment was performed using strains modified to incorporate nucleotide analogs  , and according to the procedure detailed in  . Cells were blocked in 11 mM HU for 4 hr , washed by filtration , resuspended in fresh media containing 10 mM EdU and collected at 15 or 30 min intervals over a 4 hr timecourse , and fixed with 70% ethanol . : We transformed leu1-32 mutant cells  with a 576 bp fragment of wild type leu1+ and scored leu1+ transformants that can only arise by homologous recombination of the wild type leu1 fragment into the mutant allele . The rates of HR were normalized by calculating transformation efficiencies of the different strains using leu1+ plasmid DNA . "
"Defective primary ciliogenesis or cilium stability forms the basis of human ciliopathies , including Joubert syndrome  , with defective cerebellar vermis development . We performed a high-content genome-wide small interfering RNA  screen to identify genes regulating ciliogenesis as candidates for JS . 0 , a centriole siRNA screen and the GTex project , identifying 591 likely candidates . Intersection of this data with whole exome results from 145 individuals with unexplained JS identified six families with predominantly compound heterozygous mutations in KIAA0586 . 1% of the general population was found in trans with a second mutation in an additional set of 9 of 163 unexplained JS patients . KIAA0586 is an orthologue of chick Talpid3 , required for ciliogenesis and Sonic hedgehog signaling . Our results uncover a relatively high frequency cause for JS and contribute a list of candidates for future gene discoveries in ciliopathies . A range of disorders from isolated organ defects like blindness or nephronophthisis to multi-system disorders like Joubert  , Bardet–Biedl , or Meckel–Gruber syndromes are correlated with mutations in genes involved in formation or stability of the primary cilium  . Currently , 25 genes are known to cause JS when mutated in a bi-allelic or X-linked fashion  . Most of the encoded proteins from these genes localize to the primary cilium or are involved in ciliary-related transport and commonly result in defective ciliation in patient cells or in animal models  . Importantly , still about half of cases studied by exome sequencing remain genetically unsolved , suggesting many as yet unidentified causes  . Although traditional homozygosity mapping or exome sequencing has uncovered many genes for these conditions , these approaches may fall short for genes under strong selective pressure or for genes in which homozygous loss-of-function mutations are embryonic lethal . One approach to identify new human disease genes is to intersect cell biological , genomic , or protein interaction data in order to prioritize candidates for closer inspection . For instance , a protein interaction network derived from genes previously implicated in the ciliopathies identified mutations in TCTN2 in JS patients  . Similarly , comparing gene content from species with and without cilia led to identification of BBS5 in Bardet–Biedl syndrome patients  . There have been few systematic approaches towards characterization of genes required for ciliogenesis . A small interfering RNA  screen of 7784 pharmacologically relevant genes identified 36 positive and 13 negative ciliogenesis modulators  , and a study of 815 ‘kinome’ genes identified 9 candidates affecting ciliary signaling  , but neither study was genome-wide . Given defective ciliogenesis in patient cells , we reasoned that a genome-wide siRNA screen to identify ciliogenesis factors could help prioritize candidates , especially for families in which traditional exome-sequencing approaches have not yet yielded a cause . One of the caveats of screening for such genes is that ciliogenesis is intimately linked with mitosis  , and thus , genes arresting the cell cycle prior to ciliogenesis might be inadvertently flagged as affecting ciliogenesis . Recent live cell cycle imaging markers make it possible to separately flag cell cycle genes , which could greatly increase the specificity of ciliogenesis screens . Our focus was to identify novel genes involved in JS , by applying a functional genomics approach , then intersecting the data with a cohort of unsolved exome-sequencing results from JS patients . We conducted a high-throughput genome-wide siRNA knockdown study for 18 , 045 human genes in a ‘two-color’ cell line engineered to report ciliary-localized EGFP and cells in G2/M phase using mCherry-tagged Geminin . A range of cellular features were measured for all genes , and compared with a positive and negative training set , resulting in a prioritized list of 591 ciliary candidates . This list was used to prioritize variants from 145 JS patients on whom exome sequencing had not revealed a cause . We identified deleterious variants KIAA0586 in a total of 15 families . This gene was previously missed by exome sequencing , most likely due to a high-carrier frequency of a common allele in a predominantly compound heterozygous inheritance , thus , precluding a homozygosity mapping approach or filtering focused on rare variants . Together with a lethal phenotype in other species  , the data suggest that humans may have redundancy or compensation that preclude lethality or that the KIAA0586 mutations only partially inactivate protein function . The results also support a cell-based screening approach to complement exome sequencing in human mutation identification . The ciliated stable cell line , human telomerase reverse transcriptase  -retinal pigment epithelial 1  Smo-EGFP  , in which Smoothened–tagged EGFP is stably integrated in the polarized human RPE1 cells , reliably reports a single primary cilium upon serum withdrawal in 60–80% of cells . This line was stably transfected with mCherry-tagged Geminin  , a nuclear marker for S/G2/M cell cycle phases , to produce the Smo-EGFP-mCherry-Geminin/hTERT-RPE1  line , enabling differential analysis of ciliogenesis as a function of the cell cycle . The incorporation of mCherry-Geminin increased the specificity of the screen by filtering siRNAs leading to cell cycle arrest as the primary reason for absent cilia . Schematic representation , validation and enrichment of genome-wide siRNA cell screen for machine learning approach . High-content small interfering RNA  cell-based screen using reverse transfection of the library in media containing serum for 72 hr , followed by 24 hr serum starvation , fixation and DAPI staining . To assess ciliary candidates for the positive training , we used SYSCILIA gold standard  and for the negative training the human metabolome database  as well as a manually curated housekeeping gene data set . Segmentation algorithm for cytoplasm and cilia detection:  detected nuclei from DAPI channel ,  nuclear automated segmentation ,  cell outline automated using cytoplasm_detection_D of the program Acapella , and  cilia automated detection and segmentation . Representative images of serum-starved SEMG cells without siRNA showing basal ciliation  . siRNAs used as positive controls: KIF3A interferes with ciliation but not cell cycle . CRNKL1 implicated in cell cycle progression  and showed increased mCherry nuclei and reduced ciliation . Receiver operating characteristic  for the classifier , which used features from three data sources . Median value  and interquartile ranges  box plot of the classifier scores for the corresponding number of supporting number of evidences  in Cildb and the genes used as negative and positive training examples . See Figure 1—figure supplement 1 , 2 for the prediction score on the gold standard and candidates as well as the visible improvement of the ROC curve and precision–recall curve . Box plot reporting median value  and interquartile ranges  of the classifier scores for gold standard positive and negative genes  , also included are boxes for a set of ciliopathy candidate genes  and genes not annotated to be ciliopathy related  , which were not used in the training . Classifier based on cilia siRNA screen features only . Classifier based on cilia siRNA screen and centriole siRNA screen features only . Classifier including all siRNA and GTex project expression signature based features . In all cases , the median value for positive set or candidate genes differed significantly from the negative set or unknown set of genes  . As in A but showing precision-recall curve for each classifier . 005 Using this approach , we first optimized seeding density , serum withdrawal conditions , and imaging parameters using a siRNA positive control for cilia  of KIF3A , and for cell cycle  of ACTR3 and CRNKL1 , and verified reporters were robust  . We conducted a high-throughput siRNA knockdown study for 18 , 045 genes of the human genome performed in duplicate , using 4–5 unique pooled siRNAs per gene . After siRNA transfection , ciliation was induced by serum starvation , then fixed and imaged in 384-well plates in three channels  . 18 non-overlapping cellular features reflecting nuclear , cytoplasm and ciliary state , combined into 31 parameters  , yielding 559 , 395 values across the screen  . The rationale of our whole-genome siRNA screen with SEMG cells was to obtain data allowing for identification of genes as potential candidates as a cause of JS by using a supervised learning approach . We trained a Random Forest classifier using known ‘ciliary genes’ as a positive training set , derived from the SYSCILIA consortium gold standard  composed of 303 confirmed factors  . The negative set incorporated genes not involved in any currently known ciliary processes and included 5445 genes annotated in the human metabolome database   , as well as a manually curated set of 666 housekeeping genes . To ensure accurate annotation of gene sets used in the classifier training , all genes were cross checked with Cildb V3 . 0 , a database of ‘ciliary genes’  based on high-throughput studies across multiple species  . Based on this resource , we removed genes with conflicting annotation from both the positive and negative sets , leaving a final list of high-confidence positive  and negative  cilia candidates . We evaluate the performance of the trained classifier on cilia candidates from the SCGSv1 , which included an additional list of 419 ciliary gene candidates , not used to train the classifier . Of these , 21% were flagged by the classifier as likely ciliary . Furthermore , there was significant enrichment compared to the negative set of metabolomics and housekeeping genes not included in the classifier training set  . Along with both replicates of the whole-genome siRNA screen , we included data from a siRNA screen designed to identify regulators of centriole biogenesis  and gene expression signatures derived from the Genotype-Tissue expression  tissue specific RNAseq data   . Of the 16 , 431 genes screened in all three data sets , the classifier predicted 1299 genes  as likely ciliary , which we call the CILIOGENESIS database  . We also define a high-confidence subset of 591 ciliary genes by controlling for the false discovery rate  , which is estimated based on the classifier score and training set labels calculated . This high-confidence list includes many established ciliopathy genes such as TTC26 , CEP83 , IFT88 , and SPATA7 , as well as 14 of 25 known JS causative genes . Of the remaining JS causative genes , two others were included when FDR scores were loosened to 0 . The remaining eight other JS causative genes  were all found well above the genome-wide median classifier score  , but not in the top list , possibly as a result of their activity outside the cilium . Of the high-confidence genes included in the CILIOGENESIS database , 26% were previously included in the SCGCv1 , yielding 438 novel candidates . Cildb is a multispecies knowledge base constructed through integration of high-throughput screens aimed at identifying ciliary or ciliary-related genes . Cildb outputs two integers for each gene in the knowledge base , referring to independent experimental ‘number of evidences’  indicating ciliary association , with one for NOE in human studies and one for NOE in ‘any species’ . We compared gene-specific classifier score  with the Cildb NOE output . Moreover , we also observed a significant difference when comparing scores in any of the NOE bins to the zero NOE bin in both the multi-species and human sets  . To identify possible candidates for ciliopathies , we performed a gene ontology  -term enrichment analysis on the high-confidence gene list , with functional annotation clustering using DAVID  . To ascertain the novelty of genes included in the CILIOGENESIS data set , we excluded SCGSv1 genes used in the training , leaving 1 , 177 genes . GO enrichment resulted in several significant terms including non-membrane bound organelle , microtubule cytoskeleton/centrosome , spermatogenesis , and microtubule cytoskeleton organization demonstrating an agreement with previous annotations for cilia associations  . The involvement of ciliary processes in the CILIOGENESIS data set was supported by MsigDB analysis showing gene enrichment among others for the recruitment of mitotic centrosome proteins and complexes , microtubule/cytoskeleton and centrosome   . Enrichment validation suggested that the CILIOGENESIS data set may be enriched for ciliopathy disease genes . Previous whole-exome sequencing in 287 cases of JS left ∼50% without a genetic explanation  , suggesting additional causes remain to be identified . In about half of the remaining cases , sequencing on at least one parent was available , enabling phasing of identified alleles . From these 145 individuals , we tabulated 5485 variants containing 2348 homozygous variants and 3137 potentially compounds heterozygous variant pairs . We prioritized variants occurring within the coding region and canonical splice sites of any of the 591 CILIOGENESIS genes , and identified 179 variants including 106 homozygous and 73 potentially compound heterozygous variant pairs , or a 96 . Collectively , variants were identified in 112 of the 591 CILIOGENESIS genes , respectively . The only gene with more than two families displaying variants was KIAA0586 , prompting further analysis . KIAA0586  is composed of 34 exons with at least six major transcripts  . From these 145 sequenced probands  , there were four displaying putative compound heterozygous and two displaying homozygous potentially deleterious variants . Interestingly , in each of the four compound heterozygous probands , there was a shared frameshift mutation ,  , which we refer to as M1  . Each of the four carried a single additional potentially deleterious variant , including mutations in a canonical acceptor splice site  , a canonical donor splice site  , and a missense affecting the start codon of two transcripts  . Implementing an algorithm to identify copy number variants from exome-sequencing data  , we additionally identified a deletion of 15 . These mutations were all confirmed with Sanger sequencing or quantitative PCR , and all segregated according a strict recessive mode of inheritance in all available family members  . We conclude that compound heterozygous variants in KIAA0586 contribute to JS . Each patient carrying the M1 mutation had a demonstrable second mutation on the other allele , suggesting a recessive mode of inheritance . Pedigrees and schematic representation of KIAA0586 . Genomic structure and mRNA transcripts of KIAA0586 . The shortest transcript  initiates in exon 7 , lacks exon 32 and 33 , and terminates using an alternative exon , which is not incorporated in the other transcripts . Pedigrees of the Joubert syndrome  families with ancestries of USA  , Mexico  , Turkey  , and Syria  , respectively , demonstrating the segregation of the compound heterozygous mutations in non-consanguineous families and homozygous mutations in consanguineous families . See Figure 2—figure supplement 1 for the chromatograms of the mutations in KIAA0586 . Figure 2—figure supplement 2 shows the results of the quantitative PCR confirming the large heterozygous mutation in MTI-1944 . Chromatograms of mutations in the KIAA0586 gene . The chromatograms of the mutations in identified in KIAA0586 of individuals with JS . Quantitative PCR confirmed heterozygous mutation in MTI-1944 . Using quantitative PCR on genomic DNA of the large deletion with unknown specific boundaries was confirmed to segregate in MTI-1944 . By analyzing two primer sets outside the presumed heterozygous deletions spanning exon 12 to 20 and two within the deletion absence of approximately half the product in the mother and affected child was shown . 008 Two consanguineous families each showed a homozygous mutation in KIAA0586 . The other was a single base-pair deletion  , in an exon incorporated into only three of the six annotated transcripts , all of which are ubiquitously expressed . We conclude that homozygous mutations in KIAA0586 can also contribute to JS . The common frameshift variant M1 was identified in all four families with compound heterozygous mutations . Evaluation of M1 in the Exome Variant Server ( NHLBI GO Exome Sequencing Project  , Seattle , WA , URL: http://evs . edu/EVS/  ) identified in 25/7 , 757 European American alleles and 3/3511 African American alleles , all in a heterozygous state , presumably all in healthy individuals . Exome Aggregation Consortium  showed an overall frequency of 244/120 , 680 M1 alleles . The M1 variant was found in individual of varying ancestry , but we cannot exclude a common founder mutation . We speculated that M1 was likely to represent a common mutation among JS patients . Thus , we screened an additional cohort of 163 classical JS patients with a proven ‘molar tooth sign’ collected primarily from Mediterranean regions . In the remaining 15 individuals , we attempted comprehensive Sanger sequencing of the entire KIAA0586 transcript , eventually identifying a pathogenic variant in eight individuals  , all leading to predicted splice , stop or frameshift changes , again consistent with recessive inheritance . In the other seven JS patients , a second mutation was not yet identified  . Although it is possible that one or more of these individuals carries M1 by chance , it is most likely that a second mutation exists , not yet uncovered . MRI scans from patients with KIAA0586 mutations . Magnetic resonance imaging  in a healthy individual and patients with KIAA0586 mutations showing thickened and mal-oriented superior cerebellar peduncle  , deepened interpeduncular fossa and constituting the ‘molar tooth sign’  . Figure 3—figure supplement 1 shows the imaging phenotype of affected JS individual MTI-1944-2-1 . Imaging phenotype of affected JS individual MTI-1944-2-1 with KIAA0586 mutations . MRI of individual MTI-1944 affected by KIAA0586 mutations causing JS . For the affected individuals , the diagnosis of JS was confirmed by the deepened interpeduncular fossa and abnormal superior cerebellar peduncles , showing the ‘molar tooth sign’  . All alleles identified in KIAA0586 causative for Joubert syndromeDOI: http://dx . Chromatograms of mutations in the KIAA0586 gene identified in the additional cohort of Mediterranean individuals with Joubert syndrome . 012Allele 1  Allele 2  Patient IDGenotypeGenomicDNAProteinGenomicDNAProteinMTI-233M1/M2g . Table 1—Source data 1 shows chromatograms belonging to the identified mutations in the Mediterranean cohort . To evaluate the effect of predicted splicing mutations in KIAA0586 , we generated mRNA from cultured fibroblasts of an affected and unaffected member of family MTI-233 and MTI-103 , displaying an M1 compounded with a splice mutation  . Sanger sequencing of poly-A primed mRNA showed that the mutation M2 led to the skipping of exon 9 and mutation M3 led to utilization of a cryptic splice acceptor located 16 bp downstream  , resulting in a frameshifted transcript  , suggesting partial or complete loss-of-function . Loss-of-function mutations in Talpid3 result in a short-rib polydactyly-like phenotype in chicken and mouse , with a vascular defect and early lethality , all attributable due to defective ciliogenesis  . Our patients presented classical features of JS including the MTI of varying severity  , without lethality or demonstrable excessive fetal wasting in affected families . The results support the involvement of KIAA0586 in the pathogenesis of JS . RT-PCR analysis with primers spanning various transcripts showed ubiquitous KIAA0586 expression in various tissues  . To determine the effect of mutations on KIAA0586 protein level , we analyzed patient fibroblasts of family MTI-103 and MTI-233 by Western analysis using a KIAA0586-specific antibody  . The level of KIAA0586 protein in patient samples was below detection , whereas both carriers showed reduced but detectable expression compared with control  . In human RPE1 cells transfected with KIAA0586 siRNA , we documented reduced protein levels , supporting antibody specificity . Absent KIAA0586 protein in patient fibroblasts . Immunoblot analysis of KIAA0586 in fibroblasts from family MTI-103 and MTI-233 . Lysates from RPE1 cells transfected with scrambled or KIAA0586 siRNA were used as control . Figure 4—figure supplement 1A represents an expression analysis of the KIAA0586 gene . Expression analysis of the KIAA0586 gene . RT-PCR analysis showing differential expression levels of the KIAA0586 transcripts amongst various ciliated and non-ciliated tissues was observed . Here , we identify KIAA0586 mutations in JS using a combination of cell-based screening and exome sequencing . By training of a classifier to prioritize ciliary candidate genes based upon shared loss-of-function phenotypes , we generated a data set we called CILIOGENESIS consisting of 591 prioritized genes . Intersecting these genes with WES data of genetically unexplained JS individuals led to the discovery of mutations in KIAA0586 , which we found to be a relatively common cause  in unsolved JS cases . In patient cells , there was undetectable KIAA0586 protein supporting its role in JS pathogenesis . It remains to be determined whether mutations in KIAA0586 can lead to other ciliopathies like Meckel–Gruber syndrome or nephronophthisis , which are often allelic to JS . Our siRNA screen incorporated several improvements over previously published but similar screens . As the first genome-wide siRNA high-content screen for defective ciliogenesis , we evaluated nearly each of the annotated human genes with at least four siRNAs per gene . Second , we incorporated a specific cell phase marker , mCherry-Geminin , to exclude false-positives that might result from cell cycle defects . Third , we incorporated a machine learning approach with positive and negative training sets , which enhanced the predictability of measured cellular features as they relate to ciliogenesis . It is noteworthy that including features in the classifier from multiple sources , while improving performance of the classifier , caused a reduction from 18 , 045 targets to 16 , 431 targets due to missing values  . It is possible that some ciliary factors were not correctly classified as such due to incomplete data in these comparative screens . Inevitability , our machine learning approach will be biased towards currently known ciliary factors , and as more knowledge is gained , the power of such approaches will improve . Even by combining the CILIOGENESIS data set with exomes from 145 individuals identified only a single recurrently mutated gene , leaving the majority of families still unexplained  . This observation leads us to postulate that there are probably few commonly mutated genes remaining to be discovered in JS . Our siRNA screen is probably underpowered to detect JS genes primarily involved in effects like signaling through Sonic hedgehog or Wnt pathways . Gene set enrichment analysis of the true positive SCGCv1 genes  with MsigDB  showed enrichment for cytoskeletal genes as expected  , whereas analysis on false negative genes  showed significant enrichment for photoreceptor cell maintenance , sensory perception , Sonic hedgehog pathway , and post-chaperonin tubulin folding pathway  . This suggests that the CILIOGENESIS data set may be enriched for genes involved in the process of ciliogenesis , whereas genes involved in signaling functions are less likely to be detected . Moreover , this is in agreement with analysis of candidate targets involved in Hedgehog signaling from screens described in literature for which we observe no enrichment in the CILIOGENESIS data set   . It is possible that extending the CILIOGENESIS data set to include factors regulating the ciliary responsiveness to Hedgehog or Wnt activators or suppressors could further improve sensitivity . Although Cep290 and Talpid3 share some similarities in ciliary phenotypes , there are distinct cellular functions  . Talpid3 forms a ring-like structure at the distal end of both centrioles and is involved in the initiation of ciliary vesicle formation and docking , whereas Cep290 functions in the maturation of these vesicles . Moreover , Talpid3 is localized asymmetrically in mother and daughter centrioles and is crucial for limiting the levels of Cep120 at the mother centriole  . In Talpid3 mutant mouse embryos , centrosomes fail to dock at the plasma membrane and cilia are absent in various tissues  , associated with embryonic lethality . KIAA0586 might have been identified as mutated in JS even without the CILIOGENESIS data set , but was missed , probably for several reasons . First , the difference in names of the human and mouse genes made it difficult to link the two in automated curation of exome variants . Second , the majority of mutations were compound heterozygous , precluding homozygosity mapping analysis . Third , the higher frequency of the common allele M1 in the general population reduced its priority as a candidate , since the rarest alleles are prioritized over common alleles . Thus , we foresee the CILIOGENESIS data set and other orthogonal approaches as potentially beneficial in gene discovery . The 1/300 calculated carrier frequency of M1 in the population is comparable to the deep intronic founder mutation of ∼1/500  in CEP290 as the most common cause of Leber congenital amaurosis in Caucasians , but less than the ∼1/100 in TMEM216 as a cause for JS in the Ashkenazi population  . Of the 15 patients with heterozygous M1 in the Mediterranean cohort , we identified a second truncating allele in KIAA0586 in 57% , and the remaining are still under investigation for non-coding or deletion mutations . We screened a cohort of 800 individuals with nephronophthisis with retinopathy , and found four carrying the M1 mutation , close to the predicted 0 . 0036 expected carrier frequency and no convincing second mutations were documented in this cohort . Thus , it remains to be determined if KIAA0586 mutations are associated with other ciliopathy phenotypes or can lead to embryonic lethality . Because the mutations affect only exons incorporated in a subset of transcripts or affect splicing  and because of embryonic lethality in mouse and chick with homozygous null mutations , we speculate that humans surviving with KIAA0586 mutations may retain partial function . The M4 allele was predicted to cause loss of the initiator methionine in transcript T4 and T5 , potentially leaving other transcripts intact . The M7 allele affects three of six transcripts , while no protein was detected on Western blot from patient cells . It will be important to model these alleles or check for complementation of two null alleles with the patient alleles . hTERT-transformed RPE1 cells were cultured in DMEM/F12 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum  , under standard conditions  . Plasmid DNAs harboring mouse Smo-EGFP and mCherry-Geminin  fusion genes were transfected to hTERT-RPE1 cells and the stable cell line; Smo-EGFP-mCherry-Geminin/hTERT-RPE1  was established by G418 selection . To induce ciliogenesis , the cells were serum starved on serum-free DMEM/F12 media for 24–48 hr prior to fixation . "
"Exploiting the advantages of the zebrafish  model , we showed that macrophages and microglia respond immediately upon oncogene activation in the brain . Overexpression of human AKT1 within neural cells of larval zebrafish led to a significant increase in the macrophage and microglia populations . By using a combination of transgenic and mutant zebrafish lines , we showed that this increase was caused by the infiltration of peripheral macrophages into the brain mediated via Sdf1b-Cxcr4b signaling . Intriguingly , confocal live imaging reveals highly dynamic interactions between macrophages/microglia and pre-neoplastic cells , which do not result in phagocytosis of pre-neoplastic cells . Thus , macrophages and microglia show tumor promoting functions already during the earliest stages of the developing tumor microenvironment . Macrophages and microglia have been shown to promote tumor cell proliferation and invasiveness , to modify the extracellular matrix , to induce angiogenesis and to induce an immunosuppressive environment promoting tumor growth  . However , the earliest responses of macrophages and microglia to cancerous cells in the brain have not been addressed so far . To address the early responses of macrophages and microglia to oncogenic alterations in the brain , we made use of the larval zebrafish model . Here , we combined these advantages to study the responses of macrophages and microglia to early pre-neoplastic cells in the brain . By overexpression of human dominant active AKT1 in neural cells , we induced abnormal cellular growth and morphology , increased proliferation and early differentiation , mimicking the earliest stages of brain tumor growth . This included a significant increase in macrophage and microglia cell numbers , which was caused by the infiltration of peripheral macrophages and mediated by Sdf1b released from oncogenic cells to activate the CXCR4b receptor on macrophages . Finally , by reducing the number of macrophages and microglia , we showed that these cells actively promote proliferation of the pre-neoplastic cells in the brain . To investigate the response of macrophages and microglia to early pre-neoplastic cells , we overexpressed a dominant active version of the human AKT1 gene in the larval zebrafish brain  . We either injected a lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP construct into embryos of NBT:ΔLexPR:lexOP-pA  transgenic fish or co-injected an NBT:∆lexPR-lexOP-pA driver plasmid together with a lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP construct to achieve AKT1 expression  . During the course of development , AKT1 expression-induced morphological transformations resulting in larger cells with an abnormal morphology which was not observed upon injection of a lexOP:tagRFP control construct  . Immunohistochemistry using an anti-AKT1 antibody revealed strong expression of the human AKT1 protein upon lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP construct injection  . To test for differentiation in AKT1 overexpressing cells , we performed immunohistochemistry for the differentiation marker Synaptophysin , which has been shown to be expressed in CNS tumors with neuronal differentiation as well as in neuroendocrine tumors  . GFAP was neither detected in AKT1-expressing cells nor in RFP control cells at 8 dpf  . Intriguingly , oncogenic alterations have been previously shown to induce dedifferentiation of neuronal cells  , thus we wondered if AKT1 overexpression is capable of inducing dedifferentiation in zebrafish neural cells . Interestingly , immunohistochemistry for the stem cell marker Sox2 revealed a subset of AKT1 cells which were positive for Sox2 while none of the RFP control cells appeared to be positive for Sox2  . Furthermore , the number of proliferating AKT1-positive cells was significantly increased compared to control RFP cells ( assessed by immunostaining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen  ; Figure 1G ) . Immunostaining of these areas with a panel of antisera  showed disrupted cell architecture , with increased mitotic figures , as well as positive staining for AKT1 , GFAP and Synaptophysin , suggesting abnormal growth and differentiation , suggestive of brain tumors with mixed neuronal and glial components  . To test if overexpression of AKT1 leads to an increase in microglial numbers , we used the 4C4 antibody that specifically labels microglia precursors and microglia in zebrafish  and quantified microglia numbers at 8 dpf  . As shown previously , AKT1 positive cells were observed to be highly proliferative at 8 dpf , with subsets of cells positive for Synaptophysin and others for Sox2 , while GFAP-positive cells were not detected  . Interestingly , at this early time point we observed a significant increase in microglia numbers in AKT1-positive brains when compared to controls  . This change in morphology leads to a change in the ratio of the microglia cell surface to microglia cell volume , which can be used as a read out for their activation   . Based on these morphological criteria , we analyzed the microglia in AKT1 overexpressing brains and compared to control brains at 8 dpf  . This analysis showed a significantly higher percentage of amoeboid  microglia in AKT1 overexpressing brains compared to control brains  . To analyze if microglia respond directly to AKT1 positive cells , we performed confocal live imaging using the mpeg1:EGFP transgenic zebrafish , in which all macrophages including microglia can be visualized and tracked  . Injection of lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP or lexOP:tagRFP constructs into oocytes of double transgenic mpeg1:EGFP/NBT:ΔLexPR fish allowed us to follow microglial responses to oncogenic cells or control cells in high temporal and spatial resolution . In control embryos , microglia showed the typical ramified morphology , and cell surface contacts between microglia and control RFP cells were only occasionally observed and of short durations  . In line with our previous observations based on 4C4 immunohistochemistry  , the density of microglia within AKT1-expressing brains was high and most microglial cells showed an amoeboid morphology  . Interestingly , microglia were observed to stay within close vicinity to AKT1 positive cells throughout the duration of the experiment and most microglial cells were in direct surface contact with the oncogenic cells . Microglia were observed to flatten their surfaces against the surfaces of AKT1-positive cells and then moving their surfaces around the surfaces of AKT1 cells for hours  . Other microglial cells showed interactions with several AKT1-positive cells by constantly expanding and retracting their processes upon contact with surfaces of AKT1 positive cells  . To address this further , we injected lower amounts of the lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP construct into oocytes of double transgenic mpeg1:EGFP/NBT:ΔLexPR fish and screened for fish with lower numbers and isolated AKT1-positive cells . In these larvae , microglia were frequently seen to interact with AKT1-positive cells  . As observed previously , interactions lasted for several hours and consisted of different types from flattening of microglial surfaces against surfaces of AKT1-positive cells  to constant extensions and retractions of processes toward AKT1 cells  . Thus , microglia are pro-actively interacting with AKT1-positive cells . Thus , changes induced by AKT1 overexpression stimulate direct cellular interactions with microglia . To address if the increased numbers of microglia in AKT1 positive brains were caused by proliferation of resident microglia , we performed co-immunostainings for microglia  and the proliferation marker PCNA . Interestingly , we did not detect a difference in the number of PCNA positive microglia when comparing AKT1-positive brains to control brains  . Thus , we speculated that the presence of pre-neoplastic cells in the brain might cause an infiltration of peripheral macrophages , which then differentiate into 4C4-positive microglia-like cells . Indeed , we detected significantly higher numbers of L-plastin+/4C4- cells within the brain parenchyma upon AKT1 overexpression at 8 dpf , which resemble either newly infiltrated macrophages or neutrophils  . To test if neutrophils contributed to the higher number of L-plastin+/4C4- cells we performed AKT1 overexpression in transgenic mpx:GFP zebrafish in which neutrophils express GFP under the neutrophil-specific myeloperoxidase promoter  . This experiment showed no infiltration of neutrophils upon AKT1 overexpression  , thus infiltrated L-plastin+/4C4- cells were solely macrophages . In line with the previous results on increased microglial numbers , we detected a significant increase in the total amount of all L-plastin+ cells following the overexpression of AKT1 compared to age-matched controls  . As we did not detect proliferation of resident microglia , we hypothesized that infiltrated macrophages differentiated into microglia-like cells , leading to the higher numbers of 4C4-positive cells in AKT1-positive brains . 5-fold increase in the number of L-plastin+/4C4- cells in AKT1 positive brains compared to controls  . As numbers of 4C4+ cells were only increased at later time points  we conclude that these infiltrated macrophages differentiated into microglia like  cells over time . To achieve AKT1 overexpression , we performed co-injections of the NBT:ΔLexPR driver plasmid and a lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagBFP expression plasmid . Intriguingly , we detected p2ry12-GFP-/mCherry+ macrophages at the dorsal periphery of AKT1-positive brains  at 5 . Eventually , some of these macrophages infiltrated the brain parenchyma and started expressing GFP over time , showing their differentiation toward a p2ry12-GFP+/mCherry+ microglia-like cell  . In conclusion , these results show that early oncogenic events lead to a significant increase in the macrophage and microglia cell population in the brain . We have shown that activation of AKT1 in neural cells leads to an increase in the macrophage and microglia cell population . To achieve overexpression of AKT1 in the cxcr4b-/- mutant , we performed co-injections of the NBT:ΔLexPR driver plasmid and the lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP expression plasmid into embryos of the mutant  . AKT1 expression induced morphological transformations resulting in larger cells with an abnormal morphology and expression of the human AKT1 protein in the cxcr4b-/- mutant  . However , overexpression of AKT1 in the cxcr4b-/- mutant did not lead to an increase in microglia numbers compared to overexpression of AKT1 in wild-type larvae  . Notably , microglia numbers were similar in cxcr4b-/- controls and wild-type controls , showing that Cxcr4b signaling is not needed for the normal developmental population of the brain by microglia  . Thus , Cxcr4b signaling is either required for the infiltration of macrophages upon AKT1 overexpression or for their differentiation into 4C4-positive microglia-like cells . Intriguingly , the number of newly infiltrated macrophages  did not change upon AKT1 overexpression in the cxcr4b-/- mutant  . In line with this , we did not detect an increase in the total number of all L-plastin+ cells upon AKT1 overexpression in the cxcr4b-/- mutant  . Importantly , cxcr4b-/- mutant zebrafish showed similar numbers of peripheral macrophages as wild-type zebrafish  , thus the lack of infiltration of L-plastin+ cells was not due to a general deficiency in peripheral macrophages . Thus , Cxcr4b signaling is specifically required for the infiltration of macrophages upon AKT1 overexpression in the brain . To address if the lower numbers of microglia upon AKT1 overexpression in the cxcr4b-/- mutant impacted on the oncogenic cells , we analyzed their proliferation rates based on immunostainings for PCNA . Interestingly , while no observable impact on proliferating control-RFP cells was detected  , we detected an almost 50% reduced proliferation rate of AKT1-positive cells in the cxcr4b-/- mutant compared to the wild-type larvae following overexpression of AKT1  . These results show that Cxcr4b signaling is required for the infiltration of macrophages and subsequent increase in 4C4-positive microglia numbers in AKT1 positive brains . In addition , these data imply an impact of macrophages and microglia on the proliferation rate of pre-neoplastic cells . Alternatively , Cxcr4b might have a direct role in AKT1 positive cells and might be necessary for increased proliferation . To test if Cxcr4b signaling acts cell autonomously in macrophages and microglia or AKT1 positive neural cells , we performed cell specific rescue experiments in the cxcr4b-/- mutant . To rescue Cxcr4b expression in macrophages/microglia , we made use of the macrophage/microglia-specific mpeg1 promoter and injected a mpeg1:cxcr4b construct into embryos of cxcr4b-/- mutant fish in parallel to overexpression of AKT1  . This led to a transient , mosaic expression of Cxcr4b on macrophages and microglia , thus reflecting a partial rescue  . To test the alternative that Cxcr4b expression is needed in the AKT1-positive neural cells , we performed a specific rescue of Cxcr4b in these cells . This was achieved by co-injection of a lexOP:cxcr4b plasmid in addition to a lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP plasmid together with the NBT:ΔLexPR driver plasmid into the mutant background  . Upon cell-specific rescue of Cxcr4b in macrophages/microglia or AKT1-positive neural cells , microglia numbers in rescued larvae were analyzed . Interestingly , the rescue of Cxcr4b in macrophages/microglia led to an increase in 4C4 microglia numbers upon AKT1 overexpression in the cxcr4b-/- mutant  . On the contrary , the specific rescue of Cxcr4b expression in AKT1 positive neural cells did not lead to increased microglia numbers  . These results show that Cxcr4b function is needed cell autonomously in macrophages and microglia for an increase in microglial numbers induced by AKT1-overexpressing cells . To further address a putative role of Cxcr4b in AKT1-positive neural cells , we analyzed the proliferation rate of AKT1-positive cells in the two specific rescue scenarios . Interestingly , while the Cxcr4b rescue in AKT1-positive neural cells did not increase their proliferation rates  , the specific rescue of Cxcr4b expression in macrophages and microglia led to a 70% increase in proliferation rates of AKT1-positive cells  . Thus , Cxcr4b signaling is not required in AKT1-positive neural cells to increase their proliferation rates . To address which of these ligands is responsible for Cxcr4b activation upon AKT1 overexpression , we isolated and sorted AKT1-RFP-positive cells and control cells from larval brains by FACS and performed qPCR for the respective ligands . While sdf1a expression levels did not show differences to control cells we detected a three-fold increase in mif expression levels and an over 10-fold increase in sdf1b expression levels in AKT1-positive neural cells compared to control cells  . To further test a putative role for Sdf1b in Cxcr4b induced microglial population increase , we performed Sdf1b overexpression in larval brains in the absence of AKT1 overexpression . Injection of a lexOP:sdf1b-lexOP:tagRFP construct into NBT:ΔLexPR transgenic fish led to significantly increased microglia numbers compared to controls  . To test if Sdf1b activity was solely mediated via Cxcr4b activation , we performed Sdf1b overexpression in the cxcr4b-/- mutant and quantified microglia numbers . Thus , high levels of Sdf1b produced by AKT1 positive cells lead to increased microglia numbers via Cxcr4b activation . We have shown that Cxcr4b signaling functions cell autonomously in macrophages and microglia during early stages of AKT1 activation in the brain . To further assess the impact of macrophages and microglia on AKT1-positive cells , we decided to inhibit microglial function independently of Cxcr4b signaling . We treated AKT1 overexpressing larvae with the immunosuppressant Dexamethasone  which has previously been shown to inhibit macrophages and microglia upon spinal cord injury and brain inflammation in zebrafish  . Furthermore , to specifically deplete macrophages and microglia , we treated AKT1-expressing larvae with the CSF-1R inhibitor Ki20227 that has previously been shown to deplete macrophages and to reduce tumor growth in a rodent melanoma model  . Treatment with DEX or Ki20227 had a direct impact on microglia in control and AKT1-positive larvae , leading to significantly reduced microglia numbers in controls and AKT1 larvae , respectively  . Furthermore , while proliferation rates of neural cells remained constant in controls  , DEX and Ki20227-treated AKT1-positive larvae showed a more than 50% reduction in the number of proliferating AKT1 cells compared to DMSO controls  . Finally , to directly address the impact of macrophages and microglia on AKT1-positive cells without any pharmacological interference , we made use of the zebrafish irf8-/- mutant  . The irf8 null mutant  zebrafish was characterized to lack macrophages up to around 6 dpf , with recovery from 7 dpf while microglia were absent in the brain until 31 dpf  . These cells were probably derived from the population of macrophages that recover in irf8-/- larvae from 7 dpf , which then infiltrated into the brain due to AKT1 overexpression and differentiated into 4C4+ cells . Importantly , the number of 4C4-positive cells was 80% lower in irf8-/- larvae compared to wild-type larvae upon AKT1 overexpression  , which allowed us to address the impact on the proliferation of AKT1-positive cells . While proliferation rates of neural cells remained constant in irf8-/- controls  , we detected an almost 60% reduction in proliferation of AKT1-positive cells compared to AKT1 positive cells in wild-type larvae  . In summary , these experiments show that macrophages and microglia promote proliferation of AKT1-positive cells from the earliest stages of brain tumor growth . In this study , we addressed the responses of macrophages and microglia to the earliest events of brain tumor growth . Several elegant studies have shown that macrophages and microglia infiltrate brain tumors and promote their growth ( for review see  ) . Intriguingly , we detected an immediate response of macrophages and microglia to AKT1-induced cellular alterations . By using a combination of mutant and transgenic zebrafish lines , as well as immunohistochemistry for macrophages and microglia , we showed an immediate increase in the population of macrophage and microglia cells . This increase was the result of infiltrating macrophages that differentiated into microglia-like cells as observed by expression of the 4C4 antigen . A further study using genetically engineered mouse models to distinguish monocytes/macrophages from microglia showed that 85% of the tumor-associated macrophages  within the glioma were infiltrated monocytes/macrophages  . Interestingly , while the CCL2/CCR2 signaling axis seems to be the main attractant for monocytes at the later stages of glioma growth , we show that Sdf1b/Cxcr4b signaling is responsible for macrophage infiltration during the initial stages of oncogene activation in the brain . Our data show that the pre-neoplastic AKT1 cells produce Sdf1b , which is in line with previous studies showing that AKT1 is involved in activating the expression of SDF1  . Furthermore , we show that Sdf1b produced by the pre-neoplastic cells acts specifically on macrophages and microglia but is not required in an autocrine fashion during these early stages . By using a zebrafish mutant for cxcr4b , we showed that Cxcr4b signaling is required for macrophage infiltration upon AKT1 expression in the brain . Only the specific rescue of Cxcr4b in macrophages and microglia led to increased microglial numbers in the mutant background while a specific rescue in oncogenic cells did not alter the phenotype . Importantly , we also detected a significant decrease in the number of proliferating AKT1 cells in the cxcr4b-/- mutant background , which could not be rescued by Cxcr4b expression in these cells . Thus , Sdf1b/Cxcr4b signaling is not required for proliferation of AKT1-expressing cells in an autocrine fashion during initial stages of oncogenic activation . Intriguingly , rescuing Cxcr4b expression in macrophages and microglia in the cxcr4b-/- mutant background led to a significant increase in proliferation of AKT1-positive cells , suggesting a role for microglia in promoting proliferation of pre-neoplastic cells . To further address this , we depleted macrophages and microglia independently of Cxcr4b using the immunosuppressant Dexamethasone , the specific CSF-1R inhibitor Ki20227 and the zebrafish irf8-/- mutant . Importantly , we observed a significant decrease in the number of proliferating AKT1 cells upon macrophage and microglia depletion . Thus , macrophages and microglia promote proliferation of pre-neoplastic cells in the brain . However , within the time series acquired to monitor the behavior of macrophages/microglia toward AKT1-positive cells , we did not observe phagocytosis events . Macrophages/microglia infiltrated areas with high numbers of oncogenic cells and showed continuous interactions with these cells . As microglia have been shown to directly interact with highly active neurons with increased Ca2+ levels  , it is tempting to speculate that Ca2+ levels might be increased in AKT1-positive cells resulting in ATP/ADP release to promote the observed interactions with microglia . In summary , we show for the first time that macrophage and microglia are activated during the earliest stages of oncogene activation in the brain and develop their pro-tumoural activity immediately by promoting proliferation of pre-neoplastic cells . To obtain AKT1 expression , Tol2-pDEST-lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP or Tol2-pDEST-lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagBFP was injected . In embryos absent of the transgenic NBT promoter , a Tol2-pDEST-NBT:∆lexPR-lexOP-pA  plasmid was co-injected to drive AKT1 expression in neural cells . To rescue Cxcr4b expression in macrophages or neural cells in the cxcr4b-/- mutant fish , a cell specific rescue construct was injected in addition to the NBT driver and lexOP:tagRFP-pA/lexOP:AKT1-lexOP:tagRFP constructs . Primary antibodies used were mouse anti-4C4   , rabbit anti-AKT1   , rabbit anti-Cxcr4b   , rabbit anti-GFAP   , rabbit anti-L-plastin   , rabbit anti-Mfap4   , rabbit anti-PCNA   , rabbit anti-SOX2   , and rabbit anti-Synaptophysin   . "
"uPAR mediates degradation of the extracellular matrix through protease recruitment and enhances cell adhesion , migration and signaling through vitronectin binding and interactions with integrins . Full-length uPAR is released from the cell surface , but the mechanism and significance of uPAR shedding remain obscure . Here we identify transmembrane glycerophosphodiesterase GDE3 as a GPI-specific phospholipase C that cleaves and releases uPAR with consequent loss of function , whereas its homologue GDE2 fails to attack uPAR . GDE3 overexpression depletes uPAR from distinct basolateral membrane domains in breast cancer cells , resulting in a less transformed phenotype , it slows tumor growth in a xenograft model and correlates with prolonged survival in patients . Our results establish GDE3 as a negative regulator of the uPAR signaling network and , furthermore , highlight GPI-anchor hydrolysis as a cell-intrinsic mechanism to alter cell behavior . In addition , through vitronectin binding and functional interactions with integrins and growth factor receptors , uPAR activates intracellular signaling pathways leading to cytoskeletal reorganization , enhanced cell adhesion and motility and other features of tissue remodeling and cell transformation  . uPAR expression is elevated during inflammation and in many human cancers , where it often correlates with poor prognosis , supporting the view that tumor cells hijack the uPAR signaling system to enhance malignancy  . A possible clue to the mechanism of uPAR release comes from recent studies showing that a member of the glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase  family  , termed GDE2 , promotes neuronal differentiation by cleaving select GPI-anchored proteins , notably a Notch ligand regulator and heparan sulfate proteoglycans   . GDE2 , along with GDE3 and GDE6 , belongs to a GDE subfamily characterized by six-transmembrane-domain proteins with a conserved catalytic ectodomain   . GDE2’s close relative , GDE3 , accelerates osteoblast differentiation through an unidentified mechanism  , while the function of GDE6 is unknown . Here we identify GDE3 as the first mammalian GPI-specific phospholipase C  that cleaves and sheds uPAR with consequent loss of uPAR activities in both HEK293 and breast cancer cells . We set out to determine whether uPAR can be released by any of the three related GDE family members , GDE2 , GDE3 and GDE6 . When expressed at relatively low levels in HEK293 cells , human GDE2 and GDE3  localized to distinct microdomains at the plasma membrane , possibly representing clustered lipid rafts where GPI-anchored proteins normally reside  , as well as to filopodia-like extensions   . To assess GDE activity , we generated stable uPAR-expressing HEK293 cells  , expressed GDE2 and GDE3 and examined the appearance of suPAR in the medium , using bacterial phospholipase C  as a positive control  . Strikingly , uPAR was readily released into the medium by GDE3 and PI-PLC , but not by GDE2  . GDE3 competed with exogenous PI-PLC to deplete uPAR , since PI-PLC was much less efficient in GDE3-overexpressing than in control HEK-uPAR cells  . Mutating putative active-site residue H229 , corresponding to H233 in GDE2  , abolished GDE3 activity without affecting its membrane localization  . Furthermore , a transmembrane version of uPAR  lacking the GPI moiety  was resistant to GDE3 attack , consistent with GDE3 acting through GPI-anchor hydrolysis  . Flow cytometry analysis of GDE3-overexpressing cells confirmed decreased uPAR levels in the plasma membrane  , while TIRF microscopy revealed substantial uPAR loss from the ventral cell surface  . The selectivity of GDE3 versus GDE2 towards uPAR cleavage is striking . While GDE2 and GDE3 have a similar putative GPI-binding groove leading to the active site , they show striking differences in their surface charge distribution , particularly at the putative substrate interaction surface  . We asked whether GDE3 attacks uPAR in cis  or in trans  , or both . By mixing GDE3-expressing cells  with uPAR-expressing cells  , GDE3-expressing cells failed to shed uPAR from the GDE3-deficient cell population  . Thus , GDE3 acts in cis , attacking uPAR on the same plasma membrane , not on adjacent cells . To determine whether GDE3 acts as a phospholipase in GPI-anchor cleavage , we used Triton X-114 partitioning and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry  . Next , suPAR was immunoprecipitated from the medium of GDE3-expressing cells and treated with nitrous acid  to cleave the glucosamine-inositol linkage in the GPI core  . This result defines GDE3 as the first mammalian GPI-specific phospholipase C  . When compared to uPAR-deficient cells , HEK-uPAR cells showed markedly increased cell adhesion , loss of intercellular contacts and enhanced spreading with prominent lamellipodia formation on vitronectin , but not on fibronectin  , typical features of a Rac-driven motile phenotype , in agreement with previous studies  . Strikingly , expression of GDE3 largely abolished the uPAR-induced phenotypes and cellular responses  . Catalytically dead GDE3  had no effect , neither had overexpressed GDE2  . Thus , by releasing uPAR from the plasma membrane , GDE3 suppresses the vitronectin-dependent activities of uPAR . We next assessed the impact of GDE3 on endogenous uPAR activity in MDA-MB-231 triple-negative breast cancer cells . These cells express relatively high levels of uPAR  and its ligand uPA  , thus forming an autocrine signaling loop . Expression of GDE3  is relatively low in breast cancer lines  , including MDA-MB-231 cells   . GDE3 expression in MDA-MB-231 cells led to a modest loss of uPAR from the plasma membrane as shown by flow cytometry  . To determine how GDE3 expression affects localized uPAR levels at the basolateral plasma membrane , we used confocal and dual-color super-resolution microscopy in TIRF mode . Strikingly , basolateral membrane microdomains containing wild-type GDE3 showed little or no colocalization with endogenous uPAR . In marked contrast , catalytically dead GDE3  clearly colocalized with uPAR in those membrane domains  . These results strongly suggest that active GDE3 depletes uPAR levels from distinct domains at the basolateral membrane . Consistent with this , CRISPR-based knockout of GDE3 resulted in increased basolateral uPAR levels when the cells were plated on vitronectin  . Wild-type MDA-MB-231 cells adopted a motile phenotype on vitronectin , as evidenced by increased cell spreading with marked lamellipodia formation  , strongly reminiscent of a uPAR-regulated phenotype . Overexpressed GDE3 abolished the vitronectin-dependent phenotype of MBD-MB-231 cells  . Very similar effects of GDE3 overexpression were observed in another uPAR-positive breast cancer cell line   . To confirm that GDE3 acts through uPAR attack , we expressed non-cleavable uPAR-TM to compete out endogenous uPAR , and found that the GDE3-induced reduction of cell spreading on vitronectin was largely inhibited  . Furthermore , shRNA-mediated knockdown uPAR  gave rise to the same phenotype as GDE3 overexpression , namely reduced cell adhesion , spreading and lamellipodia formation on vitronectin  . Again , GDE3 overexpression mimicked uPAR depletion either in greatly reducing both cell motility and clonogenic potential , using either shRNA-mediated knockdown  or CRISPR-mediated knockout of uPAR  . Having shown that GDE3 suppresses the non-proteolytic activities of uPAR , we next examined how GDE3 affects uPAR-driven proteolytic matrix degradation by MDA-MB-231 cells . Also in this cell system , GDE3 overexpression mimicked uPAR silicencing in inhibiting the degradation of a gelatin matrix  in the presence of serum   . On the basis of these results , we conclude that GDE3 attenuates the transformed phenotype of uPAR-positive breast cancer cells through loss of functional uPAR . When injected into the mammary fat pads of female nude mice , GDE3-overexpressing MDA-MB-231 cells showed diminished tumor growth over time , when compared to empty vector-expressing cells  , consistent with the cell-based data . However , the full implications of GDE3 expression on uPAR-dependent tumor growth remain to explored in further detail . Recent studies have advanced the field by showing that cleavage and shedding of certain GPI-anchored proteins is mediated by a cell-intrinsic transmembrane glycerophosphodiesterase , termed GDE2  , thereby promoting neuronal differentiation through multiple signaling pathways  . In this study , we focused on the shedding of GPI-anchored uPAR because of its regulatory role in multiple cellular and  physiological activities , while soluble uPAR is considered a biomarker of various human pathologies . Here we report that GDE3 functions as a long-sought GPI-specific PLC that releases uPAR from its anchor . By contrast , its homologue GDE2 failed to release uPAR . As a consequence of GDE3 action , uPAR loses its vitronectin-dependent and matrix-degrading activities , when assayed in HEK293-uPAR and triple-negative breast cancer cells that express both uPAR and uPA . Importantly , loss of uPAR expression by GDE3 was found to be restricted to certain microdomains at the basolateral plasma membrane , where signal transduction is likely to take place . Thus , by acting as a GPI-specific PLC towards uPAR , GDE3 is a negative regulator of the uPAR signaling network  that includes uPAR’s proteolytic and non-proteolytic activities . Consistent with this , GDE3 overexpression in uPA/uPAR-positive MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells slowed tumor progression in a xenograft mouse model . Although statistically significant , the inhibitory effect of GDE3 overexpression on tumor growth was not dramatic , which should not come as a surprise since MDA-MBA-31 cells express the strongly oncogenic mutant K-RAS protein , which tends to override the regulation of numerous signaling pathways . Furthermore , high GDE3 expression was found to correlate with increased survival probability in triple-negative breast cancer patients . Interestingly , our previous work revealed a similar association between overexpression of GDE2 and positive clinical outcome in neuroblastoma patients , which appears attributable to GDE2-induced glypican shedding  . Furthermore , we cannot rule out that GDE3 may cleave additional GPI-anchored substrates whose functional loss could contribute to positive clinical outcome . The present results predict that , depending on its expression levels , GDE3 may downregulate normal uPAR-dependent remodeling processes . Indeed , upregulated GDE3 accelerates osteoblast differentiation  in a manner resembling the uPAR knockout phenotype  . Furthermore , a striking >200 fold upregulation of GDE3/GDPD2 is observed during blastocyst formation  , implicating GDE3 in the invasion of pre-implantation embryos , a process in which the uPA/uPAR signaling network has been implicated  . Although correlative , these results support the view that GDE3 is upregulated to downregulate uPAR activity in vivo . The present findings also suggest that circulating full-length suPAR should be regarded as a marker of GDE3 activity , not necessarily reflecting uPAR expression levels . Homology modeling revealed striking differences in electrostatic surface properties of GDE2 versus GDE3 , suggesting that protein-protein interactions may determine substrate recognition by these GDE family members . Specific GPI-anchor modifications  could also determine the sensitivity of GPI-anchored proteins to GDE attack . Finally , when regarded in a broader context , the present and previous findings  support the view that vertebrate GDEs , notably GDE2 and GDE3 , have evolved to modulate key signaling pathways and alter cell behavior through selective GPI-anchor cleavage . Antibodies used: anti-mCh and anti-GFP , home-made; anti-Flag , M2 , anti-Vinculin and β-Actin  from Sigma; anti-uPAR  from R&D systems; anti-uPAR   ; anti-FAK  from Thermo Fisher . Research Source Identifiers: MDA-MB-231 cells RRID:CVCL_0062; Hs578T cells RRID:CVCL_0332; Antibodies: Flag M2 RRID:AB_259529; Anti Vinculin RRID:AB_10746313; Anti actin RRID:AB_2223210; uPAR RRID:AB_2165463 . GDE3 was recloned into a pcDNA3  construct by PCR amplification with restriction sites PmI1/Xba1 , followed by vector digestion using EcoRV/Xba1 . The viral plasmids  were constructed by subcloning the GDE3-pcDNA3 and uPAR-GFP-pEGFP-N1 into a pBABE plasmid . Constructs uPAR-GFP , uPAR-FLAG and non-cleavable uPAR-TM were previously described  . Transmembrane-anchored uPAR-TM was constructed by substituting the GPI-anchoring sequence of uPAR  with the transmembrane region  of the human epidermal growth factor receptor  , as described  . Cells stably expressing uPAR-GFP or GDE3-mCherry were generated using retroviral transduction and subsequent selection with puromycin . Stable uPAR knockdown in MDA-MB-231 cells was achieved using shRNAs in a lentiviral pLKO vector; five shRNAs from three RC human shRNA library were tested: TRCN0000052637 , TRCN0000052636 , TRCN0000052634 , TRCN0000052633 and TRCN0000052635 . uPAR and GDE3 knockout cell lines were generated using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing . CRISPR sequences were designed targeting uPAR  or GDE3  and cloned into pX330  . To determine the inositol phosphate content of cleaved uPAR , suPAR was immuno-precipitated from HEK293 cell conditioned medium using anti-GFP beads  . Primers used: GDE3 , forward TCAGCAGGACCACGAATGTA , reverse GCTGCAGCTTCCTCCAATAG; uPAR , forward AATGGCCGCCAGTGTTACAG , reverse CAGGAGACATCAATGTGGTTC; Cyclophilin , forward CATCTGCACTGCCAAGACTGA , reverse TTGCCAAACACCACATGCTT . Primer sequences GAPDH forward 5’-CCATGTTCGTCATGGGTGT-3’ , GAPDH reverse 5’-CCAGGGGTGCTAAGCAGTT-3’ , GDE3 forward 1 5’-TGTTTGAGACTGATGTGATGGTC-3’ , GDE3 reverse 1 5’-TTCGGGTTGGGAATACAGAG-3’ For Western blotting , cells were washed with cold PBS , lysed in RIPA buffer supplemented with protease inhibitors and spun down . HEK293 cells transiently transfected with GDE2 , GDE3 or empty plasmid , were plated on PEI-coated 6-well plates . For Total Internal Reflection  microscopy , HEK293 cells stably expressing UPAR-GFP and transiently transfected with GDE3-mCherry were imaged using a Leica AM TIRF MC microscope with a HCX PL APO 63x , 1 . Basolateral uPAR patches were visualized using confocal microscopy and the area was quantified using an ImageJ macro that measured the uPAR patches based on fluorescence intensity . HEK293 cells stably expressing uPAR-GFP were left untreated , treated with PI-PLC or transiently transfected with GDE3-mCherry . MDA-MB-231 cells were stably transfected with GDE3-mCherry . Cells were trypsinized , blocked in 2%BSA and stained with rabbit anti-GFP primary antibody or mouse anti-uPAR  antibody followed by AlexaFluor-647 coupled anti-rabbit secondary antibody . Prior to injection , GDE3-expressing or control MDA-MB-231 cells  were suspended in an equal volume of cold phosphate buffered saline and diluted 1:1 with Matrigel . "
"The ecological importance of viruses is now widely recognized , yet our limited knowledge of viral sequence space and virus–host interactions precludes accurate prediction of their roles and impacts . In this study , we mined publicly available bacterial and archaeal genomic data sets to identify 12 , 498 high-confidence viral genomes linked to their microbial hosts . These data augment public data sets 10-fold , provide first viral sequences for 13 new bacterial phyla including ecologically abundant phyla , and help taxonomically identify 7–38% of ‘unknown’ sequence space in viromes . Genome- and network-based classification was largely consistent with accepted viral taxonomy and suggested that  264 new viral genera were identified  and  cross-taxon genomic recombination is limited . Further analyses provided empirical data on extrachromosomal prophages and coinfection prevalences , as well as evaluation of in silico virus–host linkage predictions . Together these findings illustrate the value of mining viral signal from microbial genomes . It is now widely recognized that interconnected microbial communities drive matter and energy transformations in natural and engineered ecosystems  , while also contributing to health and disease states in multicellular hosts  . However , our understanding of viral diversity and virus–host interactions remains a major bottleneck in the development of predictive ecosystem models and unifying eco-evolutionary theories . This is because the lack of a universal marker gene for viruses hinders environmental survey capabilities , while the number of isolate viral genomes in databases remains limited: for comparison , more than 25 , 000 bacterial and archaeal host genomes are available in NCBI RefSeq  , whereas only 1 , 531 of their viruses were entirely sequenced and most  of these derive from only 3 of 61 known host phyla  . Thus , although advances in high-throughput sequencing expand the bounds of viral sequence space , these data sets are dominated by uncharacterized sequences  , termed ‘viral dark matter’  . In the absence of closely related isolates , viral genes and genomes remain unlinked to hosts , which greatly limits ecological and evolutionary inferences . Alternatively , viral sequence space can be explored in a known host context by revealing putative viral sequences hidden in microbial genomes . Such signal was first analyzed through annotation of prophages—viral genomes integrated in microbial genomes . Given that tens of thousands more microbial genomes are now publicly available , it is expected that many new prophages and other viral sequences remain to be discovered . Further , other viral signals might be prevalent in modern microbial genomic data sets . First , certain types of prophage do not integrate into the host genome . Second , some phages can enter a ‘chronic’ cycle , in which they replicate in the cell outside of the host chromosome , and produce virions that are extruded without killing their host  . Sometimes also termed ‘partial resistance’ , such states that enable the coexistence of phage and host in culture have now been observed in different systems  , and are linked to slight decreases in growth rate or cell concentration but no host cell clearing as would be observed for ‘typical’ lytic viruses  , thus could go unnoticed in a microbial cell culture  . All three of these lesser studied types of infection would result in the assembly of viral sequences outside of the main host chromosome in a microbial genome sequencing project and could be a new type of viral signal in modern microbial genomic data sets due to deep sequencing and public release of draft  genomic sequences . Single-cell amplified genomes can reveal viral sequences directly linked to uncultivated hosts  . When combined with metagenomic sequences , these data provide information on population dynamics , lineage-specific viral-induced mortality rates , relative ratios of prophages and current lytic infections , as well as putative links between viral infection and host metabolic state  . Thus , as microbial genomic data sets evolve from complete genomes to fragmented draft and single-cell genomes , new windows into viral diversity and virus–host interactions are opened . Here , we applied a recently developed and automated virus discovery pipeline , VirSorter  , to mine the viral signal from 14 , 977 publicly available bacterial and archaeal genomic data sets . This identified 12 , 498 high-confidence viral sequences with known hosts , ∼10-fold more than in the RefSeqVirus database , that we then used to expand our understanding of viral diversity and virus–host interactions . VirSorter is designed to predict bacterial and archaeal virus sequences in isolate or single-cell draft genomes , as well as complete genomes  . Briefly , VirSorter identifies viral sequences through  statistical enrichment in viral gene content , using a reference database composed of viral genomes of archaeal and bacterial viruses from RefSeq  and assembled from viral metagenomes  , or  a combination of viral ‘hallmark’ gene  that code for virion-related functions such as major capsid proteins or terminases  , and at least one viral-like genomic feature: statistical depletion in genes with a hit in the PFAM database , statistical enrichment in uncharacterized genes , short genes , or strand bias  . Applied to 14 , 977 publicly available microbial genomes  , VirSorter identified 12 , 498 high-confidence viral sequences representing either long genome fragments  or complete genomes  . These viral sequences were found in 5492 of the microbial genomes  . Simply scanning the identified viruses for novel hosts extended the host range of common viral families to now include several recently described phyla like Caldiserica  , Marinimicrobia  , or Omnitrophica  , in addition to other understudied groups such as Poribacteria , Nitrospinae , Cloacimonetes  , and Chloroflexi-type SAR202  . Uncovering the first viruses infecting these major microbial groups is critical given that many candidate phyla are abundant in understudied ecosystems and play substantial roles in coupled biogeochemical cycling  . Distribution of viral sequences from the VirSorter curated data set across the bacterial and archaeal phylogeny . For each bacteria or archaea phylum  , corresponding viruses in RefSeq  and VirSorter curated data set  are indicated with circles proportional to the number of sequences available . Bacterial and archaeal genomes searched with VirSorter for viral sequences originated from NCBI Refseq and WGS , as well as the Microbial Dark Matter data set  and the SUP05 SAGs data set  . New virus–host associations detected in VirSorter sequences . Summary table of VirSorter data set sequences . All sequences currently identified as plasmids on NCBI and which did not display any viral gene in the automatic annotation from NCBI are gathered at the bottom of the table and highlighted in orange . ‘Detection tag’ column indicates how the sequence was detected as viral by VirSorter: ‘hallmark’ for the presence of viral hallmark gene  , ‘refseq’ for an enrichment in bacterial and archalea virus genes , ‘noncaudo’ for an enrichment in non-Caudovirales genes , and ‘vdb’ for an enrichment in virome-like genes . Viral diversity in the VirSorter data set . ‘Unclassified Caudovirales’ gathers viruses only affiliated to the Caudovirales level without confident affiliation to the Myo- , Sipho- , or Podoviridae . Genome map comparison  and recruitment plot  of Bacteroidia virus sequences from a putative new order . Among the unassigned group , 7 sequences lacked any hit to a viral reference genome . These 7 short  near-identical circular contigs from Bacteroides draft genomes were detected as viral based on sequence similarity with human gut viromes , but contained two genes associated with plasmid replication  . This could suggest a plasmid origin , but the high and even coverage of these genomes across several CsCl-purified viromes from different studies  suggests that they are derived from encapsidated particles typical of viruses  . If confirmed , these sequences would represent the first complete genomes for an entirely new viral order . To better determine relationships between viral genomes and host range , we next built a network based on shared gene content to quantify genetic relatedness between the 12 , 498 sequences identified with VirSorter and the 1 , 240 taxonomically curated genomes available in RefSeqABVir  . Despite the absence of a universal marker gene , a long history of organizing viral sequence space through genome-to-genome comparison exists using either gene content  or nucleotide composition  . We used MCL  based on the number of shared genes between sequence pairs as it had been previously shown to accurately recapitulate taxonomic relationships in the Caudovirales , which dominated our data set  . Most  sequences affiliated to one of 614 virus clusters  , of which 535 contained at least one complete genome or large genomic fragment  , and approximately half  included RefSeqABVir sequences  . Of 43 RefSeq-curated viral genera , 27 have all their sequences in the same VC , 12 were spread across two VCs , and 4 were spread across >2 VCs—these latter genera included the Spouna-like viruses  , N4-like viruses  , Lambda-like viruses  , and Inoviruses  . Consistent with previous applications of this method , VCs identified in this analysis were thus approximately equivalent to a RefSeq-curated viral genus  . Degree of novelty of viruses detected in VirSorter curated data set . Viral clusters  are considered as putative new genera when including at least one sequence larger than 30 kb , circular , or known to be a complete genome  . The proportion of new VCs  , VCs with only one RefSeqABVir sequence , and VCs with more than one RefSeqABVir sequence is displayed for host classes associated with more than 10 virl sequences . For VCs with more than 10 proteins , those composed only of VirSorter sequences are highlighted in green and those with only one sequence from RefSeqABVir are marked in blue . Cases where sequences affiliated to both ssDNA and dsDNA viruses are clustered together are highlighted in red . ‘Detection tags’ lists the different detection tags for the cluster members , with ‘NCBI_RefSeq’ for complete genomes from the RefSeq database . Structure of viral sequence space sampled in VirSorter data set . Network of virus clusters  based on gene content comparison between viral genome sequences from RefSeqABVir and VirSorter data set . VCs including only VirSorter sequences are highlighted with a black outline . 012 Given this level of taxonomic resolution and ignoring the 79 VCs that lacked large  genome sequences , we identified a total of 264 new candidate viral genera  . These 264 candidate genera were derived from both understudied and well-studied hosts  and included 5 of the 30 highest-membership VCs  , which confirms that our knowledge of viral diversity is limited even in well-studied hosts and with prevalent viruses . Of the 12 , 498 sequences , 5 , 232 were prophages  and 1 , 756 were either complete  or large  genome fragments assembled outside of the host chromosome  . Extrachromosomal prophages in VirSorter curated data set and improvement in virome affiliation . The distribution of VirSorter curated data set as ‘integrated’  , ‘extrachromosomal’  , or ‘undetermined’  is indicated for each host class with at least five VirSorter curated data set sequences . The number of sequences associated with each host class in indicated above the histogram . Improvement in the proportion of affiliated genes from viromes with VirSorter data set . Predicted genes from the Pacific Ocean Viromes  , Tara Ocean Viromes  , and Human Gut Viromes  were compared to RefSeqVirus  and the VirSorter data set  . Predicted proteins affiliated to VirSorter  did not display any significant similarity to a RefSeq sequence . Functional affiliation of predicted genes is indicated on the map , with notably two genes  indicative of extrachromosomal prophages , as well as two genes  affiliated to the ACR_tran efflux pump family , of which some members are involved in antiobiotic resistance phenotypes . This contig belongs to the virus cluster VC_61 , composed of 35 new putative extrachromosomal prophages from different Spirochetes genomes . 014 To estimate how often a large  genome fragment could be an integrated prophage and not capture the microbial gene content , we simulated the process for 22 different prophage-containing bacterial genomes ‘sequenced’  at coverage of 5 , 25 , 50 , 75 , and 100×  . Thus , these latter 1 , 756 sequences must largely be extrachromosomal sequences and so represent a unique data source for quantifying the prevalence of under-studied viral infection modes including chronic infections , lytic viruses , or extrachromosomal prophages . Although we identified no clear sequence-based marker for the first two infection types , we could conservatively estimate the fraction of extrachromosomal prophages by identifying plasmid partition genes  . These genes were significantly more abundant in the 1 , 756 circular and large genome fragments than in the rest of the data set  . Thus , at least 13% of these sequences appear to be bona fide extrachromosomal prophages , whereas the others might be lytic viruses in ‘carrier’ states , chronic infections , or extrachromosomal prophages without detectable ParA/ParB genes . Beyond this glimpse into under-studied viral infection modes , these new reference genomes are likely to help improve taxonomic affiliation for the ‘viral dark matter’ in viromes . To quantify this , we added these sequences to the RefSeqABVir database and assigned taxonomy to predicted genes in three large-scale virome data sets available . We found that the VirSorter curated data set improved affiliation by 32 and 40% , respectively , in the marine Pacific Ocean Viromes   and Tara Oceans Viromes   data sets , and more than doubled the number of affiliated genes in human gut viromes  . This particularly strong improvement in the human gut virome affiliation is presumably due to enterobacteria being abundant among current publicly available microbial genomes . Finally , both the detection of non-integrated viral genomes and the improved virome affiliation suggest that the VirSorter curated data set includes not only integrated prophage data , but also viruses actively infecting these microbes  with under-studied infection modes . First , bacterial and archaeal viruses clustered separately in >99% of VCs; the exception  included a single and unique  archaeal virus  that clustered with 21 bacterial viruses , presumably due to poor archaeal virus representation . Second , >95% of these VCs contained exclusively one nucleic acid type  , although RNA viral representation is low because only RefSeq-curated families Cystoviridae and Leviviridae were available  . The 15 VCs including both ssDNA and dsDNA viral genomes are either associated with archaeal viruses for which composite ssDNA/dsDNA genomes were already described  or more surprisingly with ssDNA Inoviridae , which clustered with Caudovirales in 13 VCs  . For 9 of these 13 Inoviridae–Caudovirales VCs , some of the sequences were wrongly affiliated due to genes shared by both viral families such as integrases , exonucleases , and replication-associated proteins . Two other VCs corresponded to prophage sequences that include genes similar to Inoviridae and Caudovirales and could actually be two different viruses integrated at the same genome location . However , the 2 remaining mixed VCs  include sequences displaying a mix of Caudovirales and Inoviridae genes  . We posit that these might represent new composite genomes beyond the ones already described for archaea viruses  and the recently discovered RNA–DNA chimeric viruses  . We next evaluated the scale and range of viral co-infection , a phenomenon critical to viral genome evolution and thought to blur this vertical gene inheritance signal used to classify genomes into VCs . However , viral co-infection rates remain unconstrained with the only data for natural systems derived from a single large-scale single-cell genomic data set where ∼35% of infected cells contained multiple viruses  . Here , in the 5492 microbial genomes with detectable viral signal , nearly half  contained more than one detectable virus  . Most  of these co-infections involved multiple Caudovirales , as previously observed  , and likely provides mechanism for viral gene exchange and may be more common in some phages displaying rampant mosaicism  than others . These genomes represented the mixed VCs from the network analyses and putative new composite genomes described above . Mechanistically , Inoviridae might be more prone to such co-infection due to their long infection cycle whereby they extrude their filamentous virions without killing their host  , with a dsDNA replication stage  that could increase genomic exchanges with co-infecting dsDNA viruses . Number of different viral sequences detected by host genome . Numbers are based on the set of microbial genomes with at least one viral sequence detected  . Affiliation of viruses involved in multiple infections of the same host . Affiliations are deduced from best BLAST hits alongside the viral sequences , as in Figure 1 . 015 Together , these findings suggest that genome-based network analyses could be used to identify novel viruses , as well as to infer host domain  and nucleic acid type  . Evolutionarily , we posit that while co-infection by multiple viruses appears common , the consistency of so many VCs with ICTV taxonomy suggests that most phage genomes harbor a largely vertically inherited core gene set as detected for marine T4-like populations  rather than the rampant mosaicism paradigm largely derived from Siphoviridae genomes  . While data remain limited to a subset of the known microbial phyla , it might be that viral infection modes influence the tempo of their genome evolution . Specifically , we posit that horizontal gene transfer is more prevalent in phages that occupy host cells longer due to lysogenic or chronic infection stages and/or infect densely packed hosts  as these parameters would increase the probability of co-infection . Perhaps then , at least for more highly lytic viral groups , genome-based clustering approaches can now be leveraged for their taxonomic predictive value as suggested over a decade ago  . Beyond charting diversity and taxonomic affiliation of viral sequence space , the VirSorter data set provided a unique opportunity to explore virus–host interactions . Beyond the above-noted expansion of viruses to novel hosts , we next examined these patterns on a global scale by constructing a virus–host interaction network based on database-available taxa . When considering viral diversity at the genus level , the network displays a modular topology  . Such modularity in virus–host interaction networks suggests that hosts are specifically associated with particular viruses  , probably reflecting long-term coevolution between microbial hosts and their viruses . Such modular structure was expected , but not observed in previous virus–host interaction network studies , likely due to the short phylogenetic distances between hosts evaluated in available data sets  . These results confirmed the prediction that ‘at macroevolutionary scales , host–phage interaction matrices should be typified by a modular structure’  , as also had been observed across 215 phage types against 286 host types of unknown diversity  . Virus–host network between virus clusters and host classes  . A cell in the matrix is colored when at least one virus from a virus cluster  was retrieved in a genome from a host class  . This virus–host network is detected as significantly modular by lp-Brim  . Virus clusters are identified by their number and their family-level affiliation  is indicated next to each cluster when available  . Host phylum and class are indicated for each host column , with domains indicated above the corresponding hosts . Virus–host network between virus clusters and host classes  . An edge is displayed between a virus cluster  and a host class when at least one virus from this cluster was retrieved in a genome from the host class . Host phylum and class are indicated for each host node , with phyla  and domains indicated above the corresponding host nodes . 017 Finally , given the number of virus–host linkages revealed by VirSorter , we evaluated the adaptation of viral genome composition within the host milieu—an idea practiced in the literature with limited genomic information  . To this end , we computed the distance between viral and microbial genomes in terms of mono- , di- , tri- , tetra-nucleotide frequency and codon usage , and compared the distances between the virus and its host vs non-hosts in the data set . Every metric tested displayed a smaller distance between viruses and their hosts than with non-host genomes , with tetranucleotide frequency  maximizing the host to non-host distances  . Adaptation of viral genome composition and codon usage to the host genome . K–S distances between distributions of virus–host distances and virus–non-host distances for each metrics  and different subsets of the viral sequences  . K–S distances between distributions of virus–host distances and virus–non-host distances for each metrics  and different subsets of the viral sequences  . Distribution of k-mer distances between viral and cellular genomes and codon usage adaptation index for host , host genus , host family , and non-host  genomes . For each viral genome , the distance to the host is displayed , as well as 10 randomly taken distances to genomes from each category and different subsets of the viral sequences  . Distance between k-mer frequency vectors of virus genome subsamples and host genomes for Caudovirales . Viral genomes  were randomly sub-sampled at different sizes  . For each size of k-mer , the result of a linear regression of distance between host or non-host and viral subsample size is indicated . 020 Among dsDNA viruses , host-correlated genome composition patterns were robust across integrated prophages and extrachromosomal genomes  . Our expectations were that prophages would be largely optimized towards the genome of their host , but that genome composition of the extrachromosomal category would be less correlated . Particularly , as cyanophage host range breadth scales with the number of tRNA genes encoded by the virus  , we expected that genome composition of viral genomes with many tRNA genes might have poor correlation to that of their host genomes , assuming that the viral-encoded tRNA genes could compensate for codon mismatches across hosts . However , these latter expectations were not met as viral and host genome composition correlations were strong regardless of the number of viral-encoded tRNA genes  , which suggests that host-optimized viral genome composition may be beneficial even when the virus encodes its own tRNA genes . Among ssDNA viruses , nucleotide composition of viral genomes was also correlated to host genomes , but less so than for dsDNA viruses  . This contrasts with a previous analysis of 500 phage genomes that did not detect any difference between dsDNA and ssDNA genomes adaptations to their host's genome  . One ssDNA viral group , the Microviridae , had a reduced signal for genome composition metrics except for codon usage where its signal was comparable to that of the dsDNA viruses  . Although this could indicate a bias linked to the small genome size of these viruses  , dsDNA viruses' genomes subsampled to similar sizes displayed a minimal signal loss  , which suggests other mechanisms may be driving this lower genome composition adaptation in Microviridae . Another ssDNA group , the Inoviridae had reduced genome composition and codon usage adaptation signals . Again , because Inoviridae release virions without killing their hosts , it is possible that the virus is exposed to host resources over a much longer time interval , lowering the selection pressure toward transcription and translation speed and efficiency , which is the main mechanism thought to drive genome composition and codon usage adaptation of viral genomes  . Pragmatically , to assess whether this signal could be used to predict the host of a new virus , we calculated the distance based on TNF vectors between each VirSorter curated data set sequence and the 14 , 977 microbial genomes . The taxonomy of the microbial genome with the lowest distance to the viral sequence  was then compared to the taxonomy of the actual host  . When the host database included all host genomes , this host prediction was 99% accurate at both the family and genus level for virus–host TNF distances lower than 4 . When genomes from the actual host species are excluded , the accuracy of host prediction drops slightly  , and even more when all genomes from the host genus are excluded  . Hence , TNF comparison provides a promising in silico approach to link new viral genomes to hosts at different levels of accuracy within the taxonomic hierarchy when the suitable host reference genome is available . Accuracy of host prediction based on distance  between tetranucleotide frequencies of viral and microbial genomesDOI: http://dx . 00For each viral genome , the order , family , and genus of its host were predicted from the taxonomy of the closest microbial genome  and compared to the order , family , and genus of the actual host  . These predictions were computed with  all microbial genomes ,  excluding specifically all genomes from the host species , and  excluding all genomes from the host genus . As evidenced by the improvement in virome taxonomic affiliation  , VirSorter curated data set should represent a useful reference data set for future virome studies . This data set also likely harbor novel biology beyond the global patterns of viral diversity and virus–host interactions presented in this manuscript , to be revealed through analyses targeted toward specific viral or host subgroups . To facilitate these follow-up studies , VirSorter curated data set is made available through two complementary websites: MetaVir and iVirus . MetaVir  provides an automatic annotation of each sequence , with multiple visualization tools to explore and compare genome maps , as well as multiple ways of searching the data  and extract a specific subset of interest  . Nucleotide sequences from the VirSorter curated data set are also hosted at iVirus , alongside the viral clusters annotation and network  , the virus–host matrix , and the complete list of viral sequence predictions in the 14 , 977 archaeal and bacterial genomic data sets including the category 3 predictions that are not in VirSorter curated data set  . Finally , a summary of the sequences and clusters is provided as Figure 1—source data 1 and Figure 2—source data 1 , and a Data Dryad package including all annotated genbank files from the VirSorter curated data set is available  . While recent advances in high-throughput sequencing and viral metagenomics continue to expand the bounds of viral sequence space  , such viruses are typically unlinked to cognate hosts , severely limiting ecological and evolutionary inferences . Concurrently , emerging methods provide new virus–host linkage capabilities , but do not scale well with increasing data set size and complexity  . Here , the mining of publicly available microbial genomic data proved to be a useful complement to these approaches as it enables the exploration of host-linked viral diversity . The resulting viral sequences hidden in microbial genomes represent a powerful data set , increasing the number of known , host-linked viruses by an order of magnitude , with analyses of these data elucidating viral dark matter in ocean and human gut viromes , as well as augmenting our understanding of viral taxonomy , viral genome evolution , and virus–host interactions on multiple fronts . While this current VirSorter data set remains limited by the cultivation bias inherent in the publicly available complete and draft microbial genomes , such bias will progressively be eliminated as SAGs are used to better map microbial dark matter  . Such a drastically improved map of the virosphere , together with advances in experimental approaches and theory  , will help reveal the eco-evolutionary forces shaping virus–host interactions across diverse ecosystems and eventually shift our inference capability from observation to prediction . A total of 14 , 977 bacterial and archaeal genomes  included in RefSeq and WGS databases  were downloaded from the NCBI ftp website in March 2014  . This data set included 4240 complete genomes and 10 , 547 draft genomes  . Genomes were processed with VirSorter  separately for each class  , first using the RefSeqABVir database , and then using the Viromes database , yielding 89 , 301 total predicted viral sequences . We focused on a subset of the putative viral sequences extracted from RefSeq , WGS and the Microbial Dark Matter and SUP05 SAGs  , and targeted the active prophages and lytic virus signatures . To this end , we discarded all predictions lacking a viral hallmark gene or a viral gene enrichment  , and all prophage detections displaying viral gene enrichment only and lacking viral hallmark genes , as these are likely defective prophages for which boundaries are difficult to predict in silico and that often include bacterial genes . We next removed all linear sequences shorter than 10 kb except for sequences detected with the non-Caudovirales score where a threshold of 5 kb was used , as these viruses can frequently have genomes smaller than 10 kb . In addition , this manual curation step allowed us to adjust the boundaries of some prophage predictions and/or modify the prophage vs complete viral contig automatic prediction . Among these , 7266 sequences were entirely viral  , and 5232 were prophages  . Among the sequences detected as entirely viral , 6 were tagged in the NCBI database as bacteriophages , and 108 as plasmids . Here , 84 out of these 108 ‘plasmid’ sequences displayed conclusive evidence of a viral origin as they contained viral hallmark genes  and originated from draft unpublished genomes , hence likely to have been named ‘plasmid’ because they formed extrachromosomal circular assembly  . The 24 others were more ambiguous  since the automatic annotation from NCBI did not display any viral-like gene , yet these sequences all displayed statistical viral-like gene enrichment , and as such were maintained in the VirSorter curated data set . Finally , one additional ambiguous sequence , considered as entirely viral by VirSorter , was detected in the Caldiserica SAG  . Even though this sequence looks indeed like a complete Inoviridae genome , it displayed a high level of similarity  to the complete genome of Delftia acidovorans SPH-1  . Such high similarity with another virus is suspicious , as well as the fact that the matching genome is Delftia , a bacterium known to contaminate some MDA reagents . This sequence was maintained in the VirSorter data set as there is no definite proof of the contamination , but the existence of a Caldiserica-infecting Inoviridae should be considered as uncertain until further evidence is available  . The pool of 450 , 047 proteins predicted from the 12 , 498 viral sequences was clustered with all proteins from RefSeq and the viral metagenomes  with MCL based on reciprocal best BLAST hit  . Each profile in the database was first affiliated based on the origin of its members , with a 75% majority rule: at each taxonomic level , a profile is affiliated to a taxon if more than 75% of the profile sequences are affiliated to this taxon . Then , for each of the 12 , 498 viral sequences identified by VirSorter , a set of relevant hits was selected:  first the profile with the best hit across all genes along the sequence , and  the best hit from other genes with a score close to this ‘absolute’ best hit in the sequence  . Hence , a predicted protein will only be affiliated if pointing toward sequences or profiles typical of a viral group , and a sequence detected by VirSorter will only be affiliated if its best hits are consistent . For the detection of new genera in the VCs , we chose to ignoring the 79 VCs that lacked large  genome sequences . This 30 kb threshold is conservative as it avoids considering short genome fragments as new genera but would also overlook small non-circular viral genomes  . Genome organization was compared with Easyfig  after aligning all genomes to the same starting point  . The virus–host network was assessed considering only VCs with more than 10 sequences . The modularity Q value of the virus–host matrix was computed with the lp-BRIM module in R software  . The virus–host matrix had a modularity of 0 . Co-infection was defined as the detection of several distinct viruses in one genome project  . However , different viral contigs in a single draft genome could also originate from a single viral genome mis-assembled in several different contigs . This will be especially true for Caudovirales that are the most detected viruses as well as the ones with the largest genomes . To limit the over-estimation of co-infection due to mis-assembled Caudovirales genomes , co-infection was only considered in the cases where multiple copies of the large subunit of the terminase were detected , because this gene is present in single copy in Caudovirales genomes , and usually detected even in new viruses  . Relative frequencies of k-mers  were computed with Jellyfish  for every VirSorter sequence and every bacterial and archaeal genome initially mined . Mean absolute error  between k-mer frequency vectors were then computed with an in-house perl script for each pair of VirSorter sequence and cellular genome , and used as a distance metric between viruses and putative hosts . For each VirSorter sequence , a set of distances that included its host  alongside 10 randomly selected sequences from the same genus , the same family , and a different order than the host were factored into in the distance distribution  . Then , the codon usage adaptation index  was calculated for each gene between VirSorter sequences and cellular genomes . The global distribution displays the average  adaptation index for each VirSorter sequence and  a subset of cellular genomes including its host and 10 randomly selected sequences from respectively the same genus , the same family , and a different order than the actual host . Function-specific codon usage bias was based on the gene-by-gene adaptation between each VirSorter sequence and its host . For each category studied , the distance between distribution of distances to host genome  and distribution of distances to non-host genomes  was evaluated with a Kolmogorov–Smirnov  statistic . To evaluate the effect of small genome size on distance between k-mer frequencies , a sub-sample of 1000 Caudovirales was randomly taken at different sizes  , and the same procedure as for complete sequences was used to determine the distance between host and non-host distributions of k-mer distances . Even though the signal was slightly less strong for shorter fragments , this simulation indicates that genome size is not the only factor that could explain such low viral–host genome adaptation for ssDNA viruses . The prediction of the host taxonomy for each viral sequence was based on the microbial genome with the lowest tetramer frequency distance to the viral sequence . A prediction was considered as ‘correct’ when this closest microbial genome taxonomy was the same as the original genome in which the viral sequence was detected . This prediction was computed using  all microbial genomes ,  only genomes from a different species than the actual host  , and  only genomes from a different genus than the actual host . Protein sequences predicted from the POV  , TOV  , and human gut viromes  data sets were compared to RefSeqABVir  using BLAST  . 001 e-value thresholds were considered ‘unclassified’ and then used as queries in a secondary BLAST  against the predicted proteins from the VirSorter curated data set . To evaluate the efficiency of prophage assembly , we simulated genome sequencing from 23 bacterial genomes with identified prophages  . Reads were then assembled with Idba_ud  , and viral contigs were predicted with VirSorter  . On the 481 contigs larger than 30 kb detected as viral by VirSorter , 11 were considered as ‘entirely viral’ even though these originated from integrated prophages , resulting in a ‘false-positive’ ratio of integrated prophages wrongly considered as extrachromosomal viral genomes of 2 . As could be expected , this same ‘false-positive’ ratio was higher for smaller contigs  , so that we considered the origin of these small contigs as ‘undetermined’ , since they may come from integrated prophages or extrachromosomal genomes . "
"N-glycosylation – the sequential addition of complex sugars to adhesion proteins , neurotransmitter receptors , ion channels and secreted trophic factors as they progress through the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus – is one of the most frequent protein modifications . Yet , little is known about the nature , function and regulation of N-glycosylation in neurons . Using imaging , quantitative immunoblotting and mass spectrometry , we show that hundreds of neuronal surface membrane proteins are core-glycosylated , resulting in the neuronal membrane displaying surprisingly high levels of glycosylation profiles that are classically associated with immature intracellular proteins . We report that while N-glycosylation is generally required for dendritic development and glutamate receptor surface expression , core-glycosylated proteins are sufficient to sustain these processes , and are thus functional . This atypical glycosylation of surface neuronal proteins can be attributed to a bypass or a hypo-function of the Golgi apparatus . Core-glycosylation is regulated by synaptic activity , modulates synaptic signaling and accelerates the turnover of GluA2-containing glutamate receptors , revealing a novel mechanism that controls the composition and sensing properties of the neuronal membrane . Most membrane and secreted proteins are N-glycosylated during their synthesis and processing in the secretory pathway  . During this process , as nascent proteins emerge in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum  , a mannose-rich precursor is first transferred en bloc to specific aspargine residues . These immature 'core-glycans' are then trimmed down and modified by the sequential addition of diverse monosaccharides as proteins exit the ER and progress through the Golgi apparatus before they are sent to their final destination  . This sequential and combinatorial modification results in a huge potential diversity of N-glycans and regulates virtually every aspect of membrane protein biology , in particular protein folding , trafficking , stability , ligand-binding and interaction with the extracellular matrix  . Although the primary organelles of the secretory pathway were first described in neurons  , little is known about the N-glycosylation of neuronal membrane proteins . Numerous mRNAs encoding surface and secreted proteins are localized to dendrites  . In mammals , neuronal dendrites contain ER , ER-exit sites and ER-Golgi intermediate compartments  and occasionally Golgi outposts , but , for the most part lack canonical Golgi membranes  . It is thus conceivable that , depending on their synthesis in the soma or dendrites , nascent cargo visits distinct sets of secretory subcompartments , and hence acquire specific types of N-glycans . For example , it is believed that nascent neurotransmitter receptors may follow multiple and specific secretory itineraries  , but whether this impacts their glycosylation is unknown . Intriguingly , Concanavalin A  , a mannose-binding lectin , has been widely used to block the desensitization of plasma-membrane localized AMPA and kainate glutamate receptors  . From a cell-biological perspective , this is puzzling as core-glycosylated  N-glycans are typically not found at the cell-surface  . Indeed , a specific sensitivity to the glycosidase EndoH  is commonly used to identify intracellular immature membrane proteins in total cellular lysates  . Here we demonstrate that hundreds of neuronal surface membrane proteins are indeed core-glycosylated , resulting in the neuronal membrane displaying atypically high and activity-dependent levels of ConA-reactive species . We found that while N-glycosylation is generally required for the proper expression of membrane proteins at the neuronal surface , 'immature' core-glycosylated proteins are sufficient to sustain dendritic development and synaptic transmission , indicating that these proteins are fully functional . Focusing on candidate neurotransmitter receptors and auxiliary subunits , we show that core-glycosylated proteins access the cell-surface in a Golgi-independent manner indicating a bypass or a hypo-function of the Golgi apparatus . This atypical N-glycosylation results in an accelerated turnover of membrane proteins and modulates synaptic signaling , revealing a novel mechanism controlling membrane protein homeostasis and function in morphologically complex cells such as neurons . Their specific binding and sensitivity to distinct lectins and glycosidases distinguishes 3 basic types of N-glycans on membrane proteins: core-glycosylated  , hybrid and complex   . To compare the surface levels of these three generic N-glycan types in neurons to non-neuronal cells , we labeled mixed  hippocampal cultures and 3 commonly used cell-lines  with different lectin biotin-conjugates under non-permeabilizing conditions . As expected , all cell types examined  displayed both hybrid and complex N-glycans   . Surprisingly , however , mature neurons  also displayed a high level of core-glycosylated N-glycans   . This observation was reinforced by the comparison of neurons and several other cell types: only neurons showed a prominent surface labeling by ConA and GNA , confirming high levels of core-glycosylated proteins at the neuronal plasma membrane  . Core-glycosylated proteins are abundant at the neuronal surface . The binding to specific lectins and the sensitivity to distinct glycosydases distinguish different N-glycans . Hybrid and complex N-glycans detected at the plasma membrane  and the Golgi apparatus  bind ricin agglutinin  and wheat germ agglutinin  , respectively , and are hydrolyzed by PNGase . In contrast , core-glycosylated N-glycans are usually specifically localized to the endoplasmic reticulum  , bind concanavalin A and galanthus nivalis agglutinin  and are hydrolyzed by both PNGase and EndoH . Cultured hippocampal neurons  after surface labeling with ConA , GNA , WGA  and RCA  to identify core-glycosylated  , complex  and hybrid  glycans , respectively . Note the high reactivity of the neuronal surface to ConA , WGA , GNA and RCA  . Surface levels of ConA , GNA , RCA and WGA reactive glycans in fibroblasts  and in neurons  . Labeling of dendrites  , synapses  and nuclei  in DIV28 and DIV70 neurons documenting the viability of DIV 40 and older neurons as in Figure 1 . Blocking the maturation of core-glycans with kifunensine increases the surface levels of ConA- and GNA-reactive glycans but decreases RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans . Surface levels of ConA- , GNA- , RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans in neurons  treated with Kf  for two or three days . Kf increases ConA and GNA levels but decreases RCA and WGA . Intracellular ConA- , RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans are localized in distinct organelles in neurons . Images  of neurons  after labeling with ConA or WGA  , RCA  , DAPI  and anti-MAP2 antibodies  . RCA labels pleiomorphic structures  , which are distinct from ConA-reactive structures but partly colocalize with some of theWGA-reactive compartments  . ConA- , RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans are localized in distinct organelles and display contrasting sensitivities to EndoH and PNGase in COS cells . Subcellular distribution  and  average levels of ConA- , RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans in COS 7 cells in control conditions  or after glycan removal by EndoH  or PNGAse  . ConA labels the endoplasmic reticulum  and to a lesser extent the Golgi apparatus  . Pretreatment with PNGase or EndoH  strongly reduces the labeling of the ER , resulting in a marked decrease of total ConA levels  . In contrast , PNGase strongly reduces the labeling of the GA  , resulting in decreased levels of RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans . 007 To confirm the specificity of the labeling , neurons were labeled with the same lectins after treatment with Kifunensine  , an inhibitor of ER and Golgi type I mannosidases , which prevents the maturation of core-glycans into hybrid and complex glycans  . As expected , Kf increased the surface levels of ConA and GNA-reactive glycans and reduced the surface levels of RCA and WGA-reactive glycans  , thus confirming the presence of core-glycosylated proteins on the neuronal surface . To verify that intracellular proteins were indeed localized in the expected secretory compartment , we labeled neurons with ConA , RCA and WGA under permeabilizing conditions together with anti-MAP2 antibodies to visualize the somatodendritic compartment . As expected , ConA marked ER-like structures  while RCA and WGA labeled distinct Golgi-like membranes and , for WGA , the nuclear envelope   . We also validated the labeling of these intracellular compartments in COS7 cells , where the clear morphology of secretory organelles allows one to unambiguously identify various intracellular structures , and obtained similar results  . Altogether , these data thus indicate that the atypical abundance of ConA-reactive species at the neuronal surface is indeed due to core-glycosylated proteins . How abundant is the core-glycosylation of neuronal membrane proteins ? To compare directly the relative expression of the different glycans at the neuronal cell surface , we fractioned surface and intracellular proteins by affinity purification after surface biotinylation  and quantified the levels of ConA , RCA and WGA reactive-glycans in these two fractions by far-western blotting  . We again found , both in cultured neurons and brain tissue , that core-glycans  were surprisingly abundant at the neuronal surface  . Control experiments in total neuronal extracts treated with PNGase and EndoH showed that only ConA-reactive species were sensitive to EndoH , thus confirming that these were core-glycosylated N-glycans  . Interestingly , quantification of the relative surface expression of ConA , RCA and WGA reactive species showed that , in neurons , core-glycosylated proteins were expressed at relative levels comparable to conventional 'mature' N-glycans  . Core-glycosylated proteins are expressed at the neuronal surface at levels similar to hybrid and complex N-glycosylated proteins . Isolation of surface ion channel  versus cytoplasmic proteins  after surface biotinylation and purification with varying amounts of NHS-SS-biotin and streptavidin-beads . Surface  and intracellular  proteins prepared from neurons , COS7 cells and acute brain slices after labeling  with ConA , RCA and WGA . Note the high levels of ConA reactive species in cultured neurons and in brain slices . Relative surface expression  of ConA , RCA and WGA reactive species in cultured neurons  and different non-neuronal cell types  showing that the high surface expression of core N-glycans is specifically observed in neurons while other cell types show low levels of core glycosylation but higher levels of hybrid and complex glycosylation . Relative surface expression of ConA- and RCA-reactive glycans in neurons from one to nine weeks in vitro , showing stable levels of surface core-glycosylation and a developmental increase in the surface expression of hybrid glycans . The neuronal plasma membrane is intact after surface biotinylation . Intrinsic fluorescence  of pHluo-TM  , a transmembrane protein marker that selectively exhibits fluorescence at the plasma membrane  , and streptavidin-Alexa647 fluorescence  after surface biotinylation of 15 DIV neurons , showing the selective biotinylation and the integrity of the neuronal surface  . ConA- , RCA- and WGA-reactive glycans assessed by far-western blotting display distinct and specific sensitivities to PNGAse and EndoH . Total neuronal extracts labeled with ConA , RCA or WGA after or without pretreatment with PNGase or EndoH showing the specificity of the labeling . In contrast to ConA reactivity that is abolished by either EndoH or PNGase treatment , RCA and WGA reactivities are only abolished by PNGase . 010 Where are core-glycosylated proteins localized in the neuronal plasma membrane ? To address this , we imunolabeled synapses with the presynaptic marker protein bassoon after surface labeling with ConA . Core N-glycans were distributed throughout the entire neuronal surface but were particularly abundant at synapses , notably in dendritic spines  . To examine whether synaptic proteins themselves displayed core-glycosylation profiles , we assessed the glycosylation status of a cast of key synaptic proteins using their electrophoretic profiles after digestion by PNGase and EndoH , to identify core-glycosylated  proteins among the family of N-glycosylated  surface molecules  . We found that a substantial fraction of purified surface GABAA receptor or AMPA-type and NMDA-type glutamate receptor subunits were core-glycosylated   . More specifically , these proteins were either entirely core-glycosylated  , partially core-glycosylated  or were expressed as a mixture of proteins with either core-glycosylated or mature N-glycans  . We note that while there are few reports of core-glycosylated sugars on functional proteins  , these are typically associated with a few , select glycosylation sites thought to be inaccessible to Golgi enzymes . In contrast , here we show that all of the glycosylated sites of GluN1  , GluA2 and GluA3  are core-glycosylated . In contrast , TARP γ8 , an AMPA receptor auxiliary protein that is thought to be co-trafficked with nascent receptors in the secretory pathway  was completely insensitive to EndoH  as is expected for a typical mature surface glycoprotein in non-neuronal cells  . Similarly , the synaptic adhesion protein Neuroligin 1  was also completely insensitive to EndoH . These results strongly indicate that synaptic proteins and receptors are processed and trafficked to the cell-surface through distinct mechanisms / secretory routes: a classical pathway that generates glycoproteins with mature N-glycans  , which in some instances are detected together with core-glycosylated sites on the same polypeptide  , as well as an unconventional route that generates proteins with only core-glycosylated profiles  . A number of key neuronal surface proteins display unconventional N-glycosylation profiles . Synaptic localization of ConA reactive species and core-glycosylation of surface excitatory neurotransmitter receptors . Fluorescent micrographs of cultured hippocampal neurons  after labeling of surface core-glycosylated proteins  and presynaptic terminals  showing the presence of core-glycosylated proteins at synapses . Purification scheme  and migration profiles  of a group of surface glutamate receptors and associated proteins after PNGase and EndoH treatment . Note the complete EndoH sensitivity of GluN1 and GluA1 , the partial sensitivity of GluA2 and GluA4 and the lack of sensitivity of TARP γ8 and neuroligin 1  . Standard mature surface N-glycans are typically insensitive to EndoH . 9AB ) Immunoblots  and relative surface expression  of thermosensitive vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein   in COS 7 cells at various times after release  of a temperature-dependent blockade of VSVG exit from the endoplasmic reticulum . Note the progressive accumulation of VSVG at the cell surface at permissive temperature  , but not after a temperature-dependent blockade   of post-Golgi transport . Contrasting sensitivity to EndoH of surface VSVG at an early  or later  phase after ER-exit release . Note the complete lack of sensitivity of VSVG as mature proteins accumulate at the cell-surface . 012 While both binding to ConA and digestion by EndoH rely on a similar biochemical substrate - a sufficient number of mannose residues in a given N-glycan – these two reagents are typically used experimentally to probe molecules that should reside in different cellular compartments: ConA is used to block the desensitization of AMPA and kainate receptors on the surface  and EndoH is used to mark immature intracellular proteins in total cellular extracts  . To assess whether ConA and EndoH might interact with the same proteins in neurons , we devised a two-round purification strategy to assess the EndoH-sensitivity of surface proteins interacting with ConA  . Consistent with their respective electrophoretic profiles after deglycosylation  , GluN1 and GluA2 were purified based on their interaction with ConA , whereas TARP γ8 was not detected  . As expected , the binding of surface GluN1 and GluA2 to ConA was abolished by competition with free mannose  . Finally we observed that prior digestion with EndoH also blocked GluA2 and GluN1 binding to ConA  , thus demonstrating that in hippocampal neurons , the binding of surface membrane proteins to ConA and their sensitivity to EndoH are equivalent . Thus EndoH-sensitive proteins – proteins that are classically regarded as intracellular and immature - are abundant at the neuronal surface . Hundreds of surface neuronal membrane proteins are core-glycosylated . Purification scheme  and immunoblots  showing the isolation of core-glycosylated N-glycans of the neuronal plasma membrane . Presence of GluA2 and GluN1 , but not TARP γ8 , among proteins binding to ConA  . The lane 'S' shows GluA2 , GluN1 and TARP γ8 immunoreactivity in the surface fraction that was used for the experiment . Incubation of surface proteins with ConA in the presence of mannose-BSA  abolishes GluA2 binding to ConA . Bound and unbound fractions after purification with ConA in control conditions or after protein digestion with EndoH . Core-glycan removal with EndoH abolishes GluA2 and GluN1 binding to ConA . Schemes of a synapse and a growth cone highlighting examples of core-glycosylated surface neuronal proteins of particular physiological relevance for synaptic function and neuron development . Fold enrichment of N-glycoproteins included in the indicated pathways in core-glycosylated surface proteins versus total proteins . Highlighted in blue and in purple are proteins of particular relevance for neuronal functions or autoimmune diseases and cancer , respectively . Identification of high confidence core-glycosylated proteins . Shown in red are peptides with the highest enrichment and reproducibility which were used to identify 'core-glycosylated' proteins . Retrospective analysis of all the peptides originating from proteins identified in high-confidence core-glycosylated group . Core-glycosylated protein peptides  versus all the other peptides  , plotted as in A . Distribution  of core-glycosylated protein peptides  versus all the other peptides  showing the more reliable occurrence of core-glycosylated proteins and their sensitivity to EndoH . Enrichment for secreted and transmembrane proteins among identified surface core-glycosylated proteins . Relative frequencies  of soluble  , transmembrane and predicted N-glycoproteins among 'total' hippocampal proteins and 'core-glycosylated' surface proteins . Fold enrichment of core-glycosylated proteins with annotations associated to the indicated subcellular compartments , and statistical significance  . Note the enrichment of cell-surface , secreted , lysosomal and endoplasmic reticulum proteins , but not Golgi proteins , among the core-glycosylated proteins . 015 How many surface proteins fall in this category and how important are they for neuronal function ? To determine whether core-glycosylation is limited to a small set of neuronal surface proteins or represents a more widespread phenomenon , we used high-resolution mass spectrometry to identify neuronal surface proteins that interact with ConA  . To increase the specificity of our detection and obtain a high-confidence dataset , we used a label-free quantification  approach to identify proteins that were consistently detected across experiments and whose binding to ConA was impaired by EndoH . In brief , plasma membrane proteins were first isolated after surface biotinylation and affinity purified with ConA , after  or without prior treatment with EndoH  . Surface core-glycosylated proteins were identified by focusing the analysis on peptides that showed the highest reproducibility and enrichment in the target group  . As expected , the resulting protein dataset was markedly enriched for secreted and plasma membrane transmembrane proteins with predicted N-glycosylation sites  . To our surprise , we found that hundreds of transmembrane or secreted neuronal proteins were core-glycosylated  , including major ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate and GABA receptor subunits , synaptic adhesion proteins , neurotrophin receptors and voltage-gated ion channels  . Protein pathway and gene ontology analysis of our dataset compared to a control dataset   showed that multiple functional classes of glycoproteins related to axon guidance , synaptic transmission , synaptic plasticity and addiction were significantly overrepresented among the family of coreglycosylated surface proteins  . As with any affinity purification procedure , we cannot exclude the possibility that some false positive proteins are present owing to their strong interaction with surface proteins . We note , however , that we isolated surface AMPA receptor subunits from TARP γ8 based on their distinct glycosylation profiles  , even though these two proteins that are typically found in the same macromolecular complexes  , thus suggesting a high level of specificity . Taken together , the above data indicate that a large number of neuronal plasma membrane proteins display unconventional N-glycosylation profiles that are typically expressed at low levels in the plasma membrane of heterologous cells , suggesting that core-glycosylation plays a major physiological role in neurons . During neuronal development , the extension and elaboration of dendrites and axons places a high demand on neuronal secretory function to provide membrane , and thus an equally high demand on protein glycosylation . To address whether the presence of core-glycans at the neuronal membrane is specific to a particular developmental stage , we examined the relative surface expression of core and hybrid N-glycans throughout neuronal and synaptic development  . We found that while the surface expression of core-glycans remains constant , the surface expression of hybrid glycans progressively increases as neurons mature  , documenting a development-dependent regulation of neuron surface N-glycosylation . We next examined the dependence of dendritic development on N-glycans by treatment with tunicamycin  , a drug that completely blocks all N-glycosylation by preventing the transfer of the N-glycan precursor to target proteins in the ER  . immature glycans to dendritic growth we used swainsonine  , a selective blocker of Golgi type-II mannosidase Man2b1 and Man2b2  , the enzymes that convert EndoH-sensitive proteins into EndoH-resistant species  , and two other mannosidase inhibitors: kifunensine  and deoxymannojirimycin  which inhibit ER or Golgi mannosidases acting upstream of Man2b1/Man2b2   . Surprisingly , we found that the immature N-glycans that remain following treatment with Kf , DMJ or Sw were sufficient to initiate and maintain dendritic growth  . To verify that these drugs had the expected effects on the surface expression of specific N-glycan subtypes , we assessed the surface expression of core , hybrid and complex glycans by far-western blotting  . As expected , Kf , DMJ and Sw increased the surface levels of core-glycans while decreasing the levels of hybrid and , at least for Kf and DMJ , complex glycans . Thus , while N-glycosylation is necessary for dendritic development and maintenance , 'immature' N-glycans are sufficient to sustain these processes , which indicates that core-glycosylated proteins on the neuronal membrane surface are fully functional . Mature N-glycans are not required for normal dendritic development . Simplified representation of the N-glycosylation pathway and site of action of the glycosylation inhibitors tunicamycin  , kifunensine  , 1-deoxymannojirimycin  and swainsonine  . Camera lucida drawings  and/or Sholl analysis  of the dendrites of hippocampal neurons  after a three day exposure to vehicle  , Tm  , Kf  , DMJ  or Sw  . Total dendritic length  and branch tip numbers  in neurons treated with vehicle  , Tm , Kf , DMJ or SW . In B–D , note that while Tm strongly impairs dendritic growth and branching , blocking the maturation of N-glycans in the ER or the GA has no detectable effect on dendritic development . The lack of effect of specific N-glycosylation inhibitors on dendritic development is not due to a lack of activity or to non-specific effects on the glycosylation pathways . Blots and  surface levels of immature/core-glycans  , hybrid glycans  and complex/mature glycans  in neurons  treated for three days with Tm , Kf , DMJ or Sw as in Figure 5 . Core-glycans are decreased by Tm but are increased by Kf and , to a lesser extent , DMJ and Sw . In stark contrast , hybrid glycans are decreased by the 4 drugs . Mature N-glycans are decreased by Tm , Kf and DMJ , but slightly increased by Sw . 018 As stated above , the trimming of the N-glycan mannose-core and the resulting loss of glycoprotein sensitivity to EndoH occurs in the Golgi apparatus  , raising the possibility that the neuronal core-glycosylated proteins that we detect on the plasma membrane may be trafficked to the cell-surface via a Golgi-independent mechanism . To address this , we used Brefeldin A  – a drug that is commonly used to disrupt the Golgi apparatus   – and examined its effect on the surface expression of nascent proteins . To do so , neurons were pre-treated for with BFA  , and metabolically labeled by bio-orthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging  with azido-homo-alanine  for 120–150 min  , or as a negative control methionine  . Surface and intracellular proteins were then separated and quantified after surface-biotinylation and immunobloting  . In neurons , BFA had no detectable effect on the levels of nascent surface proteins and slightly decreased intracellular nascent proteins  . In contrast in COS cells , BFA had no effect on intracellular proteins but markedly reduced the levels of nascent proteins at the plasma membrane  , as also observed for other cell types  . Thus , while BFA strongly reduced secretory trafficking in COS 7 cells , it had no detectable effect on the accumulation of nascent proteins at the neuronal surface under these experimental conditions  . We cannot rule out that BFA impairs secretory trafficking in neurons but that our method is not sensitive enough to detect this effect . Yet , our results indicate that secretory trafficking in neurons is markedly less dependent on the Golgi apparatus  than in other cell types , providing an explanation for the atypical prominence of core-glycosylated proteins at the neuronal surface . Unconventional secretory processing of core-glycosylated surface proteins . GalT-GFP expression in neurons showing the morphology of the somatic Golgi apparatus after a 2 hr long exposure to vehicle  or 2 . Immunoblots  and surface or intracellular levels  of nascent proteins metabolically labeled for 120 to 150 min by bioorthogonal non-canonical aminoacid tagging  in COS cells and in neurons  in the absence  or in the presence of 2 . Note the strong effect of BFA on the surface expression of nascent proteins in COS cells and the relative lack of effect in neurons . Immunoblot of surface GluN1 , GluA2 and TARP γ8 after a 6–7 hr exposure to vehicle  or BFA , showing the reduced surface levels of TARP γ8 , GluA2 and to a lesser extent GluN1 to the cell surface after disruption of the Golgi apparatus . Sensitivity to BFA  as a function of core-glycosylation levels  . Nascent neuronal intracellular and surface proteins  after a 5-hr metabolic labeling with AHA or Methionine  in the presence or absence of BFA . Note the absence of signal in neurons incubated with Methionine  and the lack of detectable effect of BFA on the levels of surface nascent proteins . 020 Do the complex and atypical  glycosylation profiles of candidate proteins reflect processing and lack of processing by the GA , respectively ? To address this , we chose GluN1 , GluA2 and TARP γ8 because of their physiological relevance and their respective complete , mixed  or absent core-glycosylation  . We found that exposure to BFA  significantly reduced the surface expression of TARP γ8  – as expected for a typical mature N-glycan  . The surface expression of GluA2 was also reduced by BFA , albeit to a lesser extent  . In contrast , the surface expression of GluN1 - a protein whose full surface complement is core-glycosylated – was insensitive to Golgi disruption  . Interestingly , the sensitivity to EndoH of these proteins was inversely correlated with their sensitivity to Golgi-disruption  . Importantly , as proteins with a faster turnover can be expected to respond more quickly to disruption of their biosynthetic pathway , protein stability must be taken into account in interpreting these results . We note , however , that previous studies have shown that GluA2 has a slower turnover  than GluN1   , which indicates that the differential sensitivity of GluA2 and GluN1 to BFA cannot be accounted for by differences in stability . Thus , these data suggest that the surface expression of core-glycosylated glutamate ionotropic receptors is indeed due to a Golgi-independent secretory processing . Further supporting this view , our protein annotation analysis of the nascent proteins identified by mass spectrometry showed a significant enrichment for ER proteins , but not Golgi proteins , among the surface core-glycosylated proteins  . Together with the relative paucity of canonical Golgi membranes as compared to other components of the secretory pathway in dendrites  , the abundance of core-glycosylated proteins at the neuronal surface suggests that Golgi-by pass is surprisingly common for neuronal membrane proteins  . The coexistence of two forms of GluA2 on the cell surface – one form that presents only standard N-glycans and one form that presents only unconventional glycans – suggests that complex glycosylation profiles are not required for the expression of AMPA receptors on the cell-surface . To determine whether this was indeed the case , we used the glycosylation inhibitors described above to determine which glycosylation step  are required for the surface expression of GluA2 . We found that whereas blocking N-glycosylation entirely with Tm markedly reduced GluA2 surface expression  , blocking the maturation of core-glycans with Kf , DMJ or Sw had no detectable effect on GluA2 surface levels , despite clear effects  on the glycosylation profile of the protein  . Thus , the delivery of GluA2 to the neuronal surface requires N-glycosylation but does not require processing by Golgi glycosylation enzymes . To determine more generally the dependence of synaptic receptors on mature glycans , we examined whether Kf impaired synaptic transmission using patch-clamp recording of spontaneous excitatory miniature postsynaptic AMPA/kainate currents . We found that blocking the maturation of core-glycans in the ER for 48 hr had no detectable effect on the frequency or the amplitude of synaptic currents  , thus strengthening the view that mature N-glycans are largely dispensable for synaptic transmission . Blocking the maturation of N-glycosylation in the ER does not impair synaptic transmission and modulates the properties of postsynaptic AMPA receptors . Example traces of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents  and  average mEPSC amplitude and frequency and input resistance  in control  neurons  and in neurons exposed to Kf  showing the lack of effect of Kf on synaptic transmission . Example calcium trace ,  average responses ± SEM  and  time-to-peak and plateau decay in control neurons or in neurons exposed to Kf  . Core-glycosylation regulates GluA2 surface expression . Effects of ER  or Golgi  N-glycosylation inhibitors  on the glycosylation profile and surface expression of GluA2 . GluA2 before or after digestion with EndoH in control neurons  and in neurons  exposed to Kf for two days , showing the effect of Kf on the glycosylation profile of surface proteins . Note the decreased intensity of the EndoH-insensitive  band and the converse increased intensity of the EndoH-sensitive  band . Average surface levels of these proteins in neurons after a two-days-exposure to DMSO  , tunicamycin  , Kifunensine  , 1-deoxymannojirimycin  or swainsonine  . Tm reduces the surface expression of GluA2 . In contrast , Kf , DMJ and SW have no detectable effect on the surface expression of the protein . Decay plateau  as a function of time to peak  for synapses in control neurons  or in neurons treated with Kf  . 023 Do core-glycosylated proteins have specific functional properties ? As a first step towards addressing this , we determined whether Kf , which inhibits processing beyond core-glycans , alters postsynaptic signaling by combining local glutamate uncaging and calcium imaging . In blind recordings and analyses , we compared the responses of Kf-treated  and control neurons and discovered that , on average , the Kf-treated neurons exhibited responses with a shorter time to peak and a slight trend towards a larger decay  . It will be important for future studies to address how these parameters are mechanistically linked to increased core-glycosylation as multiple proteins including voltage-dependent calcium channels , calcium pumps and binding proteins  might be involve in shaping the intracellular calcium responses induced by AMPA receptor activation and postsynaptic depolarization . Nevertheless , our results show that core-glycosylation is sufficient to maintain normal synaptic transmission and may regulate the kinetics and magnitude of postsynaptic signaling . In native AMPA-type glutamate receptor complexes , the inclusion of the GluA2 subunit prevents the direct permeation by calcium  . Its presence or absence in synaptic receptor complexes is highly regulated , notably by protein synthesis  . We thus took advantage of the co-existence of standard  and core-glycosylated GluA2 subunits at the neuronal surface to directly compare the turnover of two distinct glycosylated forms of a well-studied and functionally important synaptic protein . Because the overall lifetime of a protein is a key determinant of how fast and by which mechanisms its levels can be tuned in a compartment specific manner  , we compared the stability of core-glycosylated and mature glycosylated GluA2 with a chase assay after surface biotinylation  . The two forms of the protein were quantified by immunoblotting after separation by treatment with EndoH . Consistent with values measured for GluA1 in spinal cord neurons  , the overall stability of GluA2  was on the order of tens of hours   . However , the core-glycosylated pool of GluA2 exhibited a substantially shorter half-life than the standard form of the protein   , demonstrating an accelerated turnover of the core-glycosylated form of the surface receptor . The core-glycosylation of surface proteins may accelerate their turnover and is regulated by synaptic activity . Immunoblot of biotinylated-GluA2 at various chase-times  after surface biotinylation . Surface proteins were deglycosylated with EndoH to allow the distinction of mature versus core-glycosylated receptors . Decay of mature versus core-glycosylated GluA2 . Note the shorter lifetime of core-glycosylated receptors . Total and relative surface expression  of GluA2  or ConA-reactive glycans  after treatment with bicuculline  or CNQX plus AP5  . 024 GluA2 surface expression is also regulated during homeostatic synaptic scaling  . We thus determined whether modulation of synaptic activity also impacts the surface expression of core-glycosylated N-glycans . Neuronal activity was either increased by blocking inhibitory synaptic transmission with the GABAA receptor blocker bicuculline  or reduced with the ionotropic glutamate receptor blockers CNQX and AP5  for 20 hr and then the levels of ConA-reactive species among surface and intracellular proteins were analyzed by far western blotting of total surface proteins . As expected  , we found that decreased synaptic activity increased GluA2 surface expression  . This was associated with an increase in the surface expression of total ConA-reactive  N-glycans  , thus indicating an activity-dependent regulation of core-glycosylated membrane protein trafficking . Yet , it remained unclear whether mannose-rich N-glycosylated proteins are trafficked to the neuronal-surface . We show that numerous synaptic adhesion proteins , surface neurotransmitter receptors , voltage-dependent ion channels and growth factor receptors present in the plasma membrane are core-glycosylated , thus displaying  N-glycosylation patterns previously associated with nascent ion channels in the early secretory pathway  . While it is commonly believed that the maturation of N-glycans in the Golgi apparatus is required for the genesis of functional surface membrane proteins , we found that mature N-glycans are largely dispensable for proper dendritic development and spontaneous synaptic transmission . Interestingly , the core-glycosylation of surface proteins is regulated by synaptic activity and , as seen for GluA2 , increases protein turnover . Altogether , these results point towards an important physiological role for core-glycosylation in neurons . Although AMPA receptor subunits and TARPs are thought to be co-assembled and co-trafficked in the secretory pathway  , our results show that these proteins display distinct glycosylation profiles and distinct sensitivities to BFA . This indicates that these proteins are processed by distinct mechanisms and likely use distinct secretory routes  to reach the plasma membrane . Intriguingly , the complete and selective loss of 'mature' N-glycosylated GluA2/3 in hippocampal neurons of TARP γ8 knockout mice results in a relatively modest decrease  in AMPA excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude  . This suggests that core-glycosylated receptors , which account for 33% of total surface receptors , mediate 66% of synaptic transmission , which represents a relative contribution to synaptic currents  that is ~4-fold higher . The present study thus challenges the notion that the core-glycosylated GluA2/3 subunits that remain unaltered in the TARP γ8 knockout are retained in the ER , and rather indicate that these receptors are localized at synapses and are functional both in wild type and in TARP γ8 knockout mice . Similarly , AMPA , kainate and GABAA receptors display abnormally increased or decreased EndoH sensitivities in schizophrenic patients  . Our results question the interpretation that this merely reflects altered intracellular levels of immature receptors and rather suggest that these glycosylation defects impact functional synaptic receptors present on the plasma membrane . Although dendritic Golgi outposts can be found in some neurons , most dendrites contain early secretory compartments  but lack generic Golgi membranes  . However , it remained unclear whether and how nascent membrane proteins could be N-glycosylated in segments of dendrites lacking Golgi compartments . Thus far , few mammalian proteins have been shown to be trafficked to the plasma membrane via unconventional secretory processing   . The atypical prevalence of core-glycosylated proteins at the neuronal surface that we report here indicates that USP  is a much more widespread phenomenon than initially anticipated , and allows neurons to modulate the properties of key membrane proteins . The correlation that we observed between the glycosylation status and the turnover of GluA2 is particularly interesting in this regard  . For example , a synaptic protein that is stable for multiple days has the time to potentially explore multiple synapses and go through several rounds of internalization and recycling before being degraded  . It is thus hard to imagine how the local dendritic synthesis of such a protein could lead to rapid and localized changes of synaptic composition and properties . It is thus conceivable that the unconventional glycosylation of key proteins and the resulting decrease of their lifetime may tune the spatial length-scale over which local protein synthesis may functionalize synapses  . In the recent years , our group and others have implemented and developed new tools and strategies to assess the distribution and translation of mRNAs  , the site of synthesis and the redistribution of specific nascent proteins  , and their dynamics in dendritic secretory organelles  . Here , we show that the glycosylation status of functional neuronal proteins is the result of distinct post-translational processing mechanisms that likely reflect the availability of secretory machinery in the different subcellular compartments that support protein synthesis . It will thus be interesting for future studies to investigate to what extent synthesis and secretory processing in the soma versus specific segments of dendrites determine protein glycosylation and hence their dynamics and function . Previous studies in cancer cells have shown that surface proteins may be internalized , trafficked to the GA for further glycan maturation and sent back to the plasma membrane  . We cannot exclude that a similar mechanism exists in neurons and may convert core-glycosylated AMPA receptors into mature proteins . We note however that core-glycosylated GluA2 represents ~one-third of the GluA2 – an abundant neuronal protein – at the steady state . Owing to the paucity of dendritic Golgi membranes compared to endosomal compartments  , we find it unlikely that the large fraction of neuronal proteins identified here visit the Golgi following internalization . It will thus be interesting to investigate whether the rapid turnover of core-glycosylated synaptic receptors is due to a faster degradation or to another mechanism . Given the prevalence of N-glycosylation in the brain  , and its influence on membrane protein folding , trafficking , ligand-binding and ion channel conductivity  , it is clear that the atypical glycosylation of a large number of neuronal surface proteins is physiologically meaningful . Most notably , an increased branching of complex N-glycans is typically associated with a poor prognosis for breast and colon cancers in humans  . The prevalence of core-glycosylated surface proteins in neurons may thus provide important insights on how N-glycans terminal branching is regulated and can be opposed . The immunological isolation of the brain likely plays a permissive role in surface proteins acquiring atypical glycosylation patterns in neurons , as those may otherwise trigger an immunological response . The enrichment of proteins involved in such pathologies among the core-glycoproteins that we identified thus indicates that investigating core-glycosylation in neurons may provide important cues on autoimmunity . Proteins were typically digested with 1000  or 3000  units/ug protein at 37°C overnight . Concanavalin A  , galanthus nivalis agglutinin  , RCA120-fluorescein  and RCA  , wheat germ agglutinin  , Streptavidine Alexa647  , IRDye-streptavidin  . Mouse anti-βactin  , mouse anti-bassoon  , rabbit anti-biotin  , rabbit anti-cacng8/stargazin  , rabbit anti-GABAA receptor β3 subunit  , rabbit anti-GABAA receptor γ2 subunit  , chicken anti-GFP  , rabbit anti-GluA1  , rabbit anti-GluA2  , rabbit anti-GluA4  , mouse anti-GluN1  , rabbit anti-GluN2A  , rabbit anti-GluN2B  , guinea pig anti-MAP2  , mouse anti-MAP2  , mouse anti-Neuroligin 1  , IRDye secondary antibodies  , goat anti-guinea pig-Alexa 647  , goat anti-mouse  -RRX  , goat anti-rabbit-RRX and GAM-FITC  . For labeling of surface glycoproteins , cells were rinsed in ACSF  or in Hibernate A without phenol red  and incubated with lectin biotin conjugates diluted in ACSF or Hibernate A , for 10 min at room temperature . Surface  proteins were eluted from streptavidin agarose or magnetic beads  by reduction of S-S-biotin with 50 mM DTT  for 15 min at 75°C , resulting in the complete removal of biotin from surface proteins  . Known amounts of proteins were separated into a surface  and an intracellular fraction  and processed in parallel for immunoblotting or far western blotting . The total fluorescent intensity of individual bands  or smear of proteins  was then quantified and protein relative surface expression calculated as follows: with S , I the total fluorescence intensity and 1/a , 1/b sample dilution factors in surface and intracellular fractions , protein relative surface expression was calculated as the ratio: S /  . Surface  proteins were eluted from streptavidin-agarose beads at 70°C with 50 mM DTT for 15 min and incubated in the absence  or in the presence  of EndoHf  overnight at 37°C . Proteins were then incubated with ConA biotin-conjugate in PBS supplemented with 1% Triton x100 and 0 . Proteins were incubated in 6 M urea , 2 mM DTT , alkylated using 5 mM iodoacetamide and sequentially digested overnight using LysC  . Although protein abundance was clearly higher in A than in B , this bias  complicated the use of average peptide intensities as in a typical LFQ approach . Peptides with the highest enrichment and repeatability were clearly separated as a 'natural' cluster  , and were used to define our high-confidence 'core-glycosylated' proteins: resulting in the identification of 227 protein groups and 647 protein IDs  . As expected , the retrospective analysis of all the peptides that corresponded to these proteins showed a higher enrichment in A and a higher repeatability than the rest of the 'background' proteins  . To compare our dataset to the full hippocampal proteome , we selected proteins identified by both mass spectrometry  and mRNA deep sequencing in mouse hippocampi  , yielding 19 , 690 proteins . Likely owing to the double purification procedure that was used to purify surface core-glycosylated proteins , a few proteins present in our A and/or B sets were not found among these proteins and were thus added to the later list to generate our final input dataset  . Protein topology , N-glycosylation sites and subcellular localization were defined with Signal IP and TMHMM  , NetNGlyc1 . For gene pathway and ontology analyses  , overrepresented protein functional families were determined using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes’  pathway database  or Gene Ontology annotation  using full protein lists , or subclasses determined according to expected topology  or predicted N-glycosylation sites . ConA binds with high affinity to terminal α-linked mannoses , thus preferentially to core glycans but may , in theory , also bind to hybrid N-glycans . In this study , we can clearly distinguish between these two types of N-glycans: as exemplified in Figures 1A and 5A , hybrid N-glycans are typically recognized by RCA . However , as shown in Figure 2—figure supplement 2 , RCA-binding proteins are EndoH insensitive in hippocampal neurons , in contrast to ConA binding proteins that are EndoH sensitive . Further , as shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 2 and Figure 5—figure supplement 1 , RCA-reactive proteins respond completely differently from ConA-reactive species to Kf , DMJ and Sw . We cannot exclude that rare hybrid and yet unrecognized glycans that are Endo-H sensitive and selectively bind ConA but not RCA may be found in neurons . Yet , our data strongly indicate that core-glycans are atypically abundant at the neuronal surface . Hippocampal neurons were transfected with GFP at DIV7 and were treated with vehicle  , Tm , Kf , DMJ , Sw at DIV8 , fixed at DIV11 and immunolabeled for the somatodendritic marker protein MAP2 . Cells were then surface biotinylated and surface  and intracellular proteins  separated as described above . DIV10 neurons were transfected with PSD-mCh and GCaMP6 as described above and treated with Kf for 48 hr . Whole-cell recordings were performed in DIV 20–21 neurons after a ~48 hr exposure to Kf . "
"Humans have relied on sourdough starter microbial communities to make leavened bread for thousands of years , but only a small fraction of global sourdough biodiversity has been characterized . Working with a community-scientist network of bread bakers , we determined the microbial diversity of 500 sourdough starters from four continents . In sharp contrast with widespread assumptions , we found little evidence for biogeographic patterns in starter communities . Strong co-occurrence patterns observed in situ and recreated in vitro demonstrate that microbial interactions shape sourdough community structure . Variation in dough rise rates and aromas were largely explained by acetic acid bacteria , a mostly overlooked group of sourdough microbes . Our study reveals the extent of microbial diversity in an ancient fermented food across diverse cultural and geographic backgrounds . Sourdough bread is a globally distributed fermented food that is made using a microbial community of yeasts and bacteria . The sourdough microbiome is maintained in a starter that is used to inoculate dough for bread production  . Yeasts , lactic acid bacteria  , and acetic acid bacteria  in the starter produce CO2 that leavens the bread . Starters can be generated de novo by fermenting flour and water or acquired as established starters from community members or commercial sources . Home-scale fermentation of sourdough is an ancient and historically important practice  that experienced a cultural resurgence during the COVID-19 pandemic  . Despite being an economically and culturally significant microbiome , a comprehensive survey of sourdough starter microbial communities has not yet been conducted . Previous studies have primarily focused on starters from regions within Europe  and the diversity of sourdough starters in North America is poorly characterized  . Most previous studies have applied a range of culture-based techniques to characterize sourdough microbial diversity  making it difficult to understand distributions of sourdough bacterial and fungal taxa due to the variability and biases in these approaches . Sourdough starters are maintained in many households , but these starters have generally been overlooked in previous studies which have focused on large bakeries and industrial settings . Household starters are likely distinct from those found in bakeries due to a greater heterogeneity in environments , production practices , and ingredients . Two major factors , geographic location and maintenance practices , are often invoked as major drivers of sourdough biodiversity . Sourdough communities in the same region may be similar in composition due to restricted dispersal of microbes or in response to regional microclimates . There is some evidence of local geographic structure of sourdough microbes  , but biogeographic patterns of sourdough diversity have not been quantified at a continental-scale . Likewise , experimental evidence from individual sourdoughs suggests that abiotic conditions  and microbial interactions can impact starter community structure  , but the relative importance of these processes across diverse starters is unknown . Through the collaborative power of a global network of community scientists , we collected 500 sourdough starters from across the world with dense sampling of the United States  to comprehensively characterize the microbial diversity of household sourdough starters . These starters varied greatly in their reported ages and maintenance histories  . Through both cultivation-dependent and cultivation-independent methods , we revealed the ecological distributions of widespread sourdough yeasts and bacteria . By analyzing a broad suite of starter metadata , our intensive sampling identified the roles of geography and process parameters in shaping starter diversity . Using synthetic sourdough communities , we identified a dynamic network of species interactions within sourdough microbiomes that helps explain the distributions of major yeasts and bacteria . We also determined linkages between sourdough starter microbial diversity and baking-relevant functions including the rate of dough rise and volatile organic compound  production . This study is the first to combine a large-scale survey of sourdough starter microbial diversity with quantitative analysis of the factors that shape the composition and function of starter microbiomes . We first identified the microbial communities of sourdough starters by 16S and ITS rRNA gene amplicon sequencing of samples that were shipped to us and frozen upon arrival . When considering both fermentation-relevant microbes  as well as other microbial taxa , each starter sample contained a median of seven bacterial and 35 fungal amplicon sequence variants  . LAB  and AAB  together comprised over 97% of bacterial reads  , with yeasts  comprising over 70% of fungal reads  . Unless otherwise indicated , we did not include these environmental microbes in our further analyses because of their limited roles in sourdough fermentation . Sourdough communities exhibited consistent patterns of strong species dominance or co-occurrence  . Many communities were dominated by a single yeast and/or bacterial species with a median of three LAB/AAB and one yeast per starter  . sanfranciscensis was the dominant bacterium in most sourdoughs where it occurred and was negatively associated with the widespread L . One striking pattern across our dataset was the highly variable abundance of AAB across individual starters . These bacteria have been reported in sourdough  , but are generally understudied as indicated by their almost complete absence in many key reviews of sourdough microbial diversity  . In our sample set , 147 starters contained AAB  including Acetobacter , Gluconobacter , or Komagataeibacter species  . AAB require specialized culture conditions  and cultivation biases in previous studies  may explain their widespread omission from our understanding of sourdough biodiversity . We first examined whether sourdough starter community composition was correlated with geographic distance between starters using a distance-decay analysis . The geographic signal was stronger when all fungal ASVs were included  , potentially due to differences in the non-yeast fungi  found within local ingredients and/or environments  . While differences in the overall composition of sourdough starter communities were not correlated with geographic distance between starters , species of fermentation-relevant bacteria or yeast may be enriched in some geographic regions due to dispersal or production processes . To determine if there are sourdough microbial species which are restricted to particular regions of the U . Collectively , the distance-decay and indicator species analyses demonstrate a limited role of geography in structuring the taxonomic diversity of sourdough microbial communities  . We next tested whether 33 other types of metadata collected for each starter could predict the observed composition of starters; these factors included age of starter , storage location , feed frequency , grain input , home characteristics , and climatic factors  . Together , these predictors accounted for less than 10% of the variation in community composition for both bacterial and fungal communities in both the U . For example , younger starters were often dominated by the LAB L . brevis  , while older starters often contained L . Previous studies have not found strong associations between flour type or other fermentation practices and yeast species present  . cerevisiae was weakly associated with starters whose grain base was whole wheat  . Most of the other fungal indicator species were non-yeast molds and plant endophytes , which were enriched under particular climatic conditions  . The history and origins of sourdough starters may also explain the distribution of some widespread microbial species . Sourdough bakers can either begin their starters de novo from flour and water or obtain an established starter from a business or individual . brevis was associated with de novo starters  . There were 73 starters in our collection that were originally acquired by home bakers from a bakery or other commercial source and L . sanfranciscensis was abundant in these commercial starters  . We next determined whether individual growth rate and/or biotic interactions among taxa could help to explain distributions of sourdough species  . Whereas previous studies have focused on single pairs of interacting sourdough microbes  , we chose eight isolates: four LAB and four yeasts , representing the most frequent yeasts and bacteria in sourdough that also displayed strong positive and/or negative patterns of co-occurrence  . We did not include AAB in these interaction experiments because they were not significantly associated with other microbial taxa in the amplicon dataset . To determine competitive ability , we serially passaged 1:1 mixtures of each pair of the eight microbial species through this medium for six 48 hr transfers and assessed the relative abundance of each isolate in each pair  . We determined whether each of the eight species could co-persist in pairwise competitions , where co-persistence was defined as both isolates being present at >1% relative abundance after the six transfers . Taxa that are able to reach high cell densities in the sourdough environment may be able to outcompete many other sourdough species . brevis is able to reach high densities when grown alone in our synthetic sourdough environment and is also able to persist when paired with all seven competing LAB and yeast species . We did not detect a significant correlation between the ability to persist in pairwise competitions and frequency of each taxon across the amplicon sequencing dataset  , or between growth alone and frequency in the amplicon sequencing dataset  . To test how well specific interactions among yeast and LAB detected in sourdoughs could be recapitulated in our in vitro system , we compared significant co-occurrence patterns inferred from amplicon sequence data  , with synthetic co-persistence patterns from the competition experiments . Of the 16 significant associations detected in the amplicon dataset , most  were within-kingdom interactions  and only two were cross-kingdom interactions: a negative pattern of co-occurrence between Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis , and a positive pattern of co-occurrence between Kazachstania servazzii and Pediococcus damnosus . In the competition experiment , yeasts and bacteria co-persisted with each other in half of all pairings  , and within-kingdom  species pairs co-persisted in 3 of 12 pairings  . For the eight significant co-occurrence interactions detected in the amplicon sequence dataset , seven out of eight were recapitulated in our synthetic communities  . The consistency in directionality between pairwise co-occurrence patterns observed between the 500 sourdough starters and in vitro suggests robust microbial interactions in sourdough despite differences in environmental conditions and fermentation practices . To determine how variation in starters’ community composition impacts their functional attributes , we selected a subset of 40 starters that spanned the spectrum of sourdough diversity  . We measured two baking-relevant functions: emissions of volatile organic compounds  , which can impact baked sourdough bread aromas  , and leavening  , which can impact bread structural properties  . Across all samples , 123 volatile compounds were detected by GC/MS including well-known sourdough compounds 3-methyl-1-butanol , ethyl alcohol , acetic acid , and ethyl acetate  . Sensory analysis yielded 14 dominant notes across the 40 starters , including yeasty , vinegar/acetic acid/acetic sour , green apple , fermented sour , and ethyl acetate/solventy  . The source of the starter inoculum explained most of the variation in VOC profile dissimilarities  , differences in maximum dough height  , and dough rise rates  . This demonstrates wide variation in functional capacities across the 40 starters and low variation across experimental replicates within one starter . Starter community composition did not correlate with the dominant sensory note assigned by the sensory panel  . While total bacterial and yeast species richness was not significantly correlated with VOC richness  , starter microbial community composition was significantly correlated with VOC profiles  . When we determined whether VOC variation was driven by particular sourdough species , only the Acetobacter malorum spp . More generally , total % AAB explained was strongly correlated with variation in VOCs  and sensory notes  , with the differences most strongly tied to the vinegar note compared to green apple and fermented sour notes  . The total relative abundance of AAB was also negatively correlated with the rate of dough rise  , which may be explained by the production of compounds such as acetic acid and inhibition of yeast or LAB growth in sourdough starters . The combined functional datasets highlight that variation in AAB abundances is a key driver of functional diversity across our sourdough collection . This study presents the first intercontinental atlas of sourdough starter microbial communities . Our unprecedented scale of sampling demonstrates how sourdough maintenance and acquisition practices as well as microbial interactions can impact the biodiversity of starters . In combination with thousands of years of traditional knowledge about how to make good bread , these results provide possible management strategies for manipulating starter diversity . Contradicting widespread beliefs about the regionality of sourdough microbiomes  , our comprehensive sampling demonstrates that geographic location does not determine sourdough microbial composition . Previous studies using limited sampling have suggested that sourdough starters can vary across geographic regions  , but we are unaware of other studies that have rigorously explored sourdough microbiome biogeographic patterns in a distance-decay framework . The limited role of geography in explaining sourdough diversity may be driven by the widespread movement of starters across large geographic distances through starter sharing or commercial distribution . Flour , a major potential source of microbes in de novo starters  , is also moved across large spatial scales . This geographic homogenization of starter and flour microbes likely swamps out any regional differences in potential yeasts or bacteria that can disperse into starters . Biogeographic patterns of sourdough microbes may exist at finer-scale resolutions than those used in the current study . We used amplicon sequencing to assess taxonomic diversity of sourdough because we were interested in species-level distributions of sourdough microbes . We acknowledge that intraspecific strain diversity plays important roles in many fermented foods  , that microbial strains may have unique biogeographic patterns  , and that amplicon sequencing does not typically have the resolution to fully capture strain-level diversity  . However , previous studies of other ecosystem types using similar amplicon sequencing approaches and at similar spatial scales have found strong distance-decay relationships of both fungal and bacterial communities  . Future work using shotgun metagenomic sequencing or whole-genome sequencing of widespread sourdough microbes may reveal more nuanced biogeographic patterns in sourdough biodiversity . Relative to bakeries , home producers likely follow less strict and sustained regimens for starter maintenance; they may vary techniques over time or keep imperfect records in regard to reported metadata . sanfranciscensis was prevalent in older starters and starters purchased by participants from a business , which supports the hypothesis that it is selected for by bakers over generations of sourdough production  . Future studies that explicitly test how starter composition changes over time and across geographies in home fermentations are needed to better understand selection and stability in these ecosystems . The concordance between our amplicon sequencing and competition experiment suggest that commonly or uncommonly observed species pairs may be due to complementary or competitive inter-species interactions . An important caveat is that the single representative isolates used in these experiments do not capture strain-level genomic and metabolic diversity , which has been shown to produce different competitive outcomes among and between strains of these sourdough taxa  . Though pairwise competitions have been shown to be predictive of higher-order interactions in simple microbial ecosystems  , outcomes of interactions in more complex synthetic sourdough communities with three or more species may differ from what we observed here . Future studies that use ‘leave-one-out’ approaches can identify potential roles of multidimensional microbial interactions in sourdough microbiomes . anomalus was a strong competitor in vitro in this and other studies  , but it is not frequently found across the starters we sampled and co-occurred with other yeast species in the sourdoughs that were sequenced . anomalus is strongly competitive in sourdough , but may be dispersal limited , and/or that environmental conditions or multispecies interactions in home sourdough starters mitigate its competitive performance in situ . Our integrative functional analysis of starter microbiomes highlights the disproportionate effects of AAB in shaping the sensory and leavening properties of sourdough . These bacteria have been historically underappreciated in most studies of sourdough microbes  . The limited use of media that can selectively grow AAB and the lack of metagenomic approaches in previous studies are two potential explanations for the underestimation of AAB abundances in the literature . Based on our findings , we argue that the relative abundance of this group should be considered a key factor in predicting the functional attributes of sourdough . However , the influence of AAB on sensory properties and dough rise is not straightforward and the correlation between percentage of AAB and vinegar sensory properties as well as slower dough rise rates was not seen in all samples . Further studies are needed to understand how VOCs produced by AAB contribute to the quality of baked sourdough bread . Sourdough starters exemplify a unique type of microbial community: a top-down engineered microbiome that is stably maintained for many years . As our co-occurrence analysis and synthetic community validation revealed , these simple countertop microbial ecosystems provide ample opportunities to identify processes that structure microbiomes . Further experimental approaches that manipulate other dimensions of sourdough , including phages , genomic heterogeneity , and evolutionary dynamics , will continue to uncover mechanisms of microbiome assembly in this ancient fermented food . Sourdough starters were submitted by community scientists participating as part of the Sourdough Project  . Each participant first answered an extensive online questionnaire consisting of 40 questions related to the source , history , maintenance , and use of their sourdough starter . Participants were instructed to triple-bag ~4 oz of their freshly fed sourdough starter in a new resealable plastic bag , label the bag with their participant ID , and then ship it to Tufts University . Each starter sample was subdivided into two subsamples:  1 mL was transferred to a 1 . 5 mL tube and stored at −80°C until samples could be processed for DNA sequencing ,  glycerol stocks  were made of each sample by combining equal parts sample and 30% glycerol and stored at −80°C for competition and VOC analyses . In total , we received , processed , and sequenced 560 sourdough starter samples with completed surveys from participants . To characterize the bacterial and fungal communities of sourdough starters , we followed previously described molecular marker gene sequencing protocols  . In brief , we extracted DNA from 2 mL sub-samples using a Qiagen PowerSoil DNA extraction kit , and then amplified extracted DNA with barcoded primers to enable multiplexed sequencing in duplicate , using the 515 f/806 r for bacteria and ITS1f/ITS2 for fungi . Amplicon concentrations were normalized and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform at the University of Colorado Next Generation Sequencing Facility with 2 × 150 and 2 × 250 bp paired-end chemistry for bacterial and fungal sequencing , respectively . For the bacterial sequence data , we used the following parameters: truncLen = 150 for forward reads and 140 for reverse reads , maxEE = 1 , and truncQ = 11 and for the fungal data we used the following parameters: minLen = 50 , maxEE = 2 , truncQ = 2 and maxN = 0 . We then rarefied the ASV tables to 1260 bacterial reads per sample and 4000 fungal reads per sample and converted to percent relative abundances for downstream analyses . We retained 500 sourdough samples for analyses  . To obtain high-quality taxonomic species assignments for LAB and AAB and to facilitate comparisons to longer 16S rRNA sequences of isolates , we built phylogenetic trees for both bacterial groups  . In order to preserve continuity between our analysis and previously published studies of sourdough ecology , we refer to the Lactobacillus species by their traditional names rather than recently proposed taxonomic reassignments  . We also characterized 40 sourdough starters used for functional analyses  via shotgun metagenomic sequencing in order to confirm that the experimental communities revived from glycerol stocks were similar to the original samples . Eight individual isolates of abundant yeasts and bacteria from amplicon data  were isolated from glycerol stocks which were plated onto Lactobacilli MRS agar  or Yeast Potato Dextrose  . The eight isolates were sourced from eight different starters in our collection . Identities were confirmed using Sanger sequencing of the ITS region for yeast using the primer ITS1f  and ITS4  and 16s regions of bacteria using the primers 27f  and 1492r  . Sanger sequences of the four bacterial isolates were included in the tree used for ASV classification and all clustered with their respective presumed identities’ reference taxa  . Yeast:yeast pairs were plated on Chromagar Candida plates  at a 10−4 dilution to differentiate species based on colony morphology , with the exception of pairs containing Wickerhamomyces anomalus , which were differentiated on YPD . To test how distinct sourdough community structures impacted functions , we revived frozen glycerol stocks of 40 starters in a standard flour medium  using a common garden approach . These 40 starters spanned the diversity we encountered in sequencing  ; we limited our functional analysis to 40 starters due to practical constraints in annotating VOC data . Rather than directly using frozen starters which were shipped to us from community scientists , we first grew up samples in a ‘pre-inoculum’ that was used to inoculate doughs for functional analysis . The flour used was the same mixture used for CBFM  , but it was prepared differently in order to approximate the moisture content of dough . 8 mL sterile distilled water and 2 g autoclaved flour in three replicate communities for each starter pre-inoculum  . Pre-inoculum was mixed with flour and sterile water using a sterile wooden dowel until no dry flour was visible . Autoclaved flour  , water  , and inoculum  were added to 15 mL falcon tubes and mixed using sterile wooden dowels and then briefly centrifuged to remove from the sides of tubes . To confirm that the microbial community that formed in these experimental sourdoughs  resembled the sourdough starters from which they originated , we compared microbial community composition between shotgun metagenomic data collected from experimental sourdoughs and the corresponding amplicon sequence data from the original sourdoughs . We calculated Bray-Curtis dissimilarities for the 40 samples from:  the initial amplicon data and  16S taxonomic annotations from the shotgun metagenomic data from the experimental samples . Initial and experimental communities were similar in terms of their overall bacterial composition  and abundances of common taxa  . Sourdough starter volatiles were collected using headspace sorptive extraction , which is an equilibrium-driven sample enrichment technique employing a polydimethylsiloxane coated magnetic stir bar  . Stir bars  were suspended in the headspace of each sample using a magnet on the outside of the sample tube cap to suspend the stir bar above the sample . Compounds in the starters measured at concentrations less than or equal to concentrations in the water/flour samples were eliminated from the data . There were two sets of sensory descriptors that were used in our study: those that were provided by individuals at the time of sample collection  , and those that a trained sensory panel used during the functional analysis of a subset of sourdough starters  . For our detailed functional analysis of the subset of 40 starter samples , sourdough starter aromas were assessed after 36 hr of incubation by a trained and certified descriptive sensory analysis panel from the Tufts University Sensory and Science Center . To assess and visualize overall similarity in sample composition  , we hierarchically clustered samples based on pairwise distances in Bray-Curtis dissimilarities  , as implemented in hclust . To test whether geographic location explained any of the variation in observed microbial composition , we ran Mantel tests  comparing bacterial and fungal community dissimilarities  to geographic distances  . To assess whether abiotic factors including process parameters  and climatic variables  were correlated with any of the observed patterns in microbial composition , we performed PERMANOVA tests on bacterial and fungal dissimilarities , including 33 potential predictors  : grain base inputs , other process attributes  ; water source; sensory notes described by participant; pet presence; and location-based climatic variables obtained from latitude/longitude reported  . For those variables found to explain a significant portion of the variation in overall microbial community composition  , we tested whether particular taxa were enriched under specific conditions  . To determine if there are sourdough microbial species that might be restricted to particular regions of the U . , we used k-means clustering to group samples at two scales: k = 4  and k = 15  and identified indicator taxa that were significantly  enriched in these regions  . Positive and negative co-occurrence interactions  were detected using the R package Cooccur  , which uses a probabilistic approach to determine whether , given their abundance in data , species occur more or less often than is expected by chance . Data were transformed to presence-absence of assigned species taxonomy of LAB , AAB , and yeast above a one percent within-sample threshold . For two functional outputs , dough rise rate and VOC profiles  , we first assessed how similar starters were from the same initial inoculum . For VOC profiles , we ran a PERMANOVA to assess how much variation in VOC profiles  was explained by initial starter inoculum . For dough rise , we ran an ANOVA to assess how differences in observed dough rise rates were predicted again , by initial starter inoculum . We then assessed whether overall community composition  predicted the composition of VOCs , using mean values within replicates from the same initial inoculum  for both VOC profiles and dough rise rates . We used Mantel tests to compare community dissimilarities in VOCs to LAB , AAB and yeast dissimilarities , and also to the Euclidean distances in total % AAB across samples . We also assessed whether any particular taxa were driving differences in the overall VOC composition with Spearman’s correlations between taxa relative abundances and the two non-metric multidimensional scaling  axes representing dissimilarities in VOC compositions . Sensory analysis yielded 14 dominant notes across the 40 starters , including yeasty  , vinegar/acetic acid/acetic sour  , green apple  , fermented sour  , ethyl acetate/solventy  , and n = 1 sample for alcoholic sour , bready , cheesy , fermented apple , fruity sour , sweaty , toasted corn chips , veggie sulfide , and winey sour . To test whether the dominant sensory note observed from the Tufts Expert Sensory Panel was predicted by % total AAB , we ran a Kruskal-Wallis test with the dominant note as the predictor and used a Dunn test to assess significance of pairwise comparisons . "
"The transcription factor ASCIZ  has an unusually high number of recognition motifs for the product of its main target gene , the hub protein LC8  . Using a combination of biophysical methods , structural analysis by NMR and electron microscopy , and cellular transcription assays , we developed a model that proposes a concerted role of intrinsic disorder and multiple LC8 binding events in regulating LC8 transcription . We demonstrate that the long intrinsically disordered C-terminal domain of ASCIZ binds LC8 to form a dynamic ensemble of complexes with a gradient of transcriptional activity that is inversely proportional to LC8 occupancy . The preference for low occupancy complexes at saturating LC8 concentrations with both human and Drosophila ASCIZ indicates that negative cooperativity is an important feature of ASCIZ-LC8 interactions . Human ASCIZ  is an 88 kDa protein that has recently been identified as a transcription factor for the hub protein , LC8   . Mice with mutations in ASCIZ that prevent LC8 transcription die in late embryogenesis and exhibit serious developmental defects in kidneys and lungs  . Mutant phenotypes in Drosophila , developing mouse B lymphocytes , and cultured cells are rescued by ectopic overexpression of LC8 , demonstrating that the observed defects of ASCIZ knockouts are due to ASCIZ regulation of LC8 expression  . In addition , it has recently been shown that a conditional knockout of LC8 almost perfectly copies the corresponding phenotypes of ASCIZ knockouts in mouse B cell development and B cell lymphomagenesis  . LC8 binding is associated with a range of cellular processes , from cell division to apoptosis , underscoring LC8’s essential role as a regulatory hub  . LC8 preferentially binds to a 10-amino acid motif in intrinsically disordered regions  containing highly conserved TQT residues at positions 7–9   . Analysis of the 11 crystal structures of LC8 bound to short peptides containing the motif explains why the TQT residues are essential for binding: the Q is involved in interactions with both LC8 subunits in the dimer , while both T’s are fully buried and thus evolutionarily constrained . In these interactions , TQT acts as the motif anchor while the other seven highly variable motif residues modulate affinity , as described in the anchored flexibility model of LC8 motif recognition  . In recent years , the number of experimentally characterized LC8 partners has risen to more than 40 , and prediction methods indicate that dozens more may specifically bind LC8  . Gaining insight into how LC8 interacts with partner proteins , and how LC8 levels in the cell are balanced , is therefore paramount to understanding the regulation of many cellular processes . A distinctive feature of ASCIZ is the high number of LC8 recognition motifs within its C-terminal domain . Although some LC8 partners have multiple recognition motifs   , human ASCIZ contains 11 functional LC8 binding sites  , the most by far of any partner protein identified to date . This enrichment in LC8-binding sites is conserved throughout the animal kingdom , underscoring the importance of multiple motifs in ASCIZ function  . Cell culture transcription assays demonstrate that ASCIZ regulates LC8 transcription via a system of negative autoregulation , for which the mechanism is not well understood . Disruption of the ASCIZ/LC8 interaction via mutation of the TQT sites results in an increased level of LC8 transcription , while overexpression of LC8 decreases transcription  . This observation led to the hypothesis that ASCIZ acts as a sensor for cellular LC8 and regulates LC8 transcription levels according to cellular needs  . As LC8 expression levels vary among tissue types  and LC8 overexpression enhances the survival and proliferation of breast cancer cells in culture  , regulation of LC8 levels is critical for cellular health and homeostasis . However , while high levels of LC8 inhibit ASCIZ transcriptional activity  , it is not known how this activity is controlled at the molecular level nor the requirement for multiple binding sites . In this work , we use a combination of biophysical , structural , and molecular biology tools to explore the relationship between ASCIZ multivalency and LC8 transcription . We show that human and Drosophila ASCIZ bind to multiple LC8 dimers simultaneously in both a positively and negatively cooperative fashion , enabling the formation of a dynamic equilibrium of complexes , of which low occupancy intermediates are highly populated . The disordered region has six predicted LC8 recognition sites identified by a canonical TQT motif  : QT1  , QT2  , QT4  , QT5  , QT6  , and QT7  . Purification of full-length dASCIZ is impeded by poor expression levels and insolubility , and therefore we designed and produced constructs corresponding to the zinc finger domain , dZnF  , and the LC8-binding domain , dLBD  . Circular dichroism demonstrates that the C-terminal constructs , QT4-6 and QT4-7 , are slightly more ordered than N-terminal constructs , QT1-3 and QT2-4  . Isothermal titration calorimetry  experiments on dASCIZ constructs were applied to identify the number of recognition motifs and provide estimates of their overall binding affinity for LC8 . The full length dLBD binds LC8 with a dLBD:LC8 stoichiometry of 1:7  and an overall Kd of 1 . 4 μM  , suggesting that an additional non-TQT ASCIZ site binds LC8 . To confirm the functionality of this motif , ITC binding of LC8 was measured for constructs QT1-3 , QT2-4 , QT4-6 , and QT4-7  . QT1-3 and QT2-4 contain the TMT binding motif , and both bind LC8 with a stoichiometry of 3 , demonstrating that this TMT motif is the seventh LC8 recognition site  . Each of the other two constructs bind LC8 with the stoichiometry expected from the number of TQT binding motifs . Interestingly , construct QT4-6 , containing recognition sites 4–6 , binds LC8 with a Kd of 1 . Given the small differences in binding affinity among the shorter dLBD constructs , we asked if any individual site binds LC8 with higher affinity than all others . QT3p interaction with LC8 is not even detected at 30 μM LC8 . Intriguingly , the QT4-6 construct has a slightly higher binding affinity than the other constructs , while the QT4 , QT5 , and QT6 peptides display among the lowest affinity as individual peptides . Since ITC experiments on the full length dLBD and smaller constructs identify 7 LC8 recognition sites , we sought to establish the size of the dLBD:LC8 complex at varying LC8 concentrations by analytical ultracentrifugation . The dLBD was titrated with increasing concentrations of LC8 and complex formation was assessed at dLBD:LC8 molar ratios 1:1 , 1:3 , 1:6 , and 1:10 . sedimentation coefficient  show that titration at sub-saturating concentrations of LC8 results in a broad peak that is likely an equilibrium mixture of complexes with varying LC8 occupancy in exchange with each other and with free dLBD . At a saturating concentration of LC8  , a high occupancy complex whose size  approximately corresponds to a fully bound complex  is clearly evident . In summary , while high occupancy complexes are evident in AUC profiles , consistent with the ITC results , these complexes are in equilibrium with many smaller sub-saturated species , the most populated of which is a mixture of 1:2-1:4 complexes of dLBD:LC8 . The low occupancy complexes are favored , relative to higher occupancy complexes , even in samples having a large excess of LC8 . A sample composed of dLBD and a large excess of LC8 was injected into an in-line size-exclusion chromatography system and X-ray scattering data were collected for the largest peak . The distance distribution function suggests a moderately compact structure for dLBD:LC8 complexes , with Dmax = 240 Å , and a molecular weight of roughly 110 kDa , confirming the presence of an unresolved mixture of dLBD:LC8 complexes with stoichiometries ranging from 1:2-1:4  . Additionally , a Kratky plot of the scattering data indicates that the dLBD:LC8 complex is a mix of globular domains and intrinsically disordered chains , consistent with low occupancy complex structures  . When LC8 is added to dLBD at a 1:1 molar ratio , the band for free LC8 disappears , and the complexes formed migrate above LC8 , as a diffuse band likely corresponding to two dLBD chains bound to two or more LC8 dimers  . As the molar ratio is increased , the diffuse upper band becomes a dark smear , free LC8 accumulates in a pronounced dark band , and the free dLBD band disappears . Unbound LC8 is clearly visible at ratios ≥ 1:4 , indicating that a pool of free LC8 accumulates even at conditions well below LC8 saturation of dLBD . We similarly assessed the gel mobility of complexes formed by LC8 and the LC8-binding domain of human ASCIZ  , which contains 11 TQT motifs   . Very similar behavior is observed for hLBD , although the gel mobility of hLBD bands is much lower than the mobility of dLBD bands due to molecular sieving of the much larger hLBD  compared to dLBD  . Decreasing mobility of the upper smear indicates increasing sizes of the complexes formed , while the appearance of a bands migrating the same as free LC8 at ratios ≥ 1:4 indicates the presence of a pool of free LC8 well below LC8 saturation of hLBD . Together the gel titration data for dLBD and hLBD suggest that hLBD:LC8 complexes form a dynamic ensemble with varying levels of LC8 occupancy in which lower occupancy forms are favored . Here , the amount of hLBD is held constant , and increases in peak intensity are due to effects on hLBD complexes from increasing LC8 . The peak corresponding to excess LC8 is discernable at a ratio of 1:7 , and steadily increases as LC8 is added . Taken together , the data in Figure 4 are consistent with the explanation that a low occupancy form of the hLBD:LC8 complex is favored even with a large excess of LC8 . A minor population of high occupancy complexes , present even at the lowest molar ratio , increases with increasing LC8 and is in equilibrium with the LMW species and with free LC8 , and therefore with each other . Both Drosophila and human LBD exhibit this dynamic behavior , suggesting it is a conserved feature of the ASCIZ:LC8 interaction . In order to visualize the various oligomeric states of ASCIZ-LC8 , we analyzed electron microscopy data of dLBD and hLBD under saturating concentrations of LC8 . Nup159:LC8 complexes were clearly visualized as a linear array of 5 stacked densities of LC8 , as previously reported   , and consistent with the conclusions of Nup159:LC8 biophysical solution experiments  . In contrast , despite the similar overall affinity   , in negative stain images of dLBD:LC8 and hLBD:LC8 complexes , the vast majority of complex species appear dissociated on the grid  . Furthermore , although dLBD contains seven and hLBD 11 LC8 binding sites , the vast majority of complexes observed by EM appeared to be of low LC8 occupancy . Reference-free two-dimensional  classification routines were carried out on datasets of ~2000 single particle images of dLBD:LC8 complexes and ~1000 particles of hLBD:LC8 complexes extracted from ~300 and 200 micrographs , respectively . These produced 2D projection averages for dLBD:LC8 and hLBD:LC8 oligomers displaying complexes formed with 2–4 stacked densities , corresponding to LC8 dimers , deduced from the dimensions of the averaged bead-like densities   . The extent of conformational variability is consistent with ~10–20 Å spacing measured between LC8 densities , and the intrinsic flexibility of the IDP duplex chain separating the neighboring LC8 TQT recognition motifs . Both dLBD:LC8 and hLBD:LC8 complexes form an ensemble of structures , displaying an exponential distribution with low-occupancy states  being most abundant  . Density corresponding to the IDP duplex chain cannot be resolved by negative stain EM , therefore complexes formed with a single LC8 dimer were not included in this analysis , as they could not be distinguished from unbound LC8 dimers . Together , this analysis shows dLBD and hLBD form dynamic assemblies with LC8 that favor low occupancy states  . Although uncommon , high-occupancy and fully-formed complexes of dLBD:LC8  could be identified from the raw single particle images  , further confirming the stoichiometry obtained by our ITC studies . For the hLBD:LC8 dataset , complexes containing as many as 7–9 LC8 dimers could be distinguished from the single particle image data , while higher-order complexes containing 10–11 LC8 dimers were either not distinguishable or were simply absent under the limiting concentrations required for negative stain EM specimen preparation . Nevertheless , the remarkable similarity in distribution of oligomeric species formed by dLBD and hLBD , obtained under similar binding conditions , is consistent with the nearly equivalent overall LC8 affinity determined by ITC , and suggests that a conserved mechanism of negative cooperativity is used by ASCIZ to regulate the formation and distribution of higher-order LC8 assemblies . If dLBD and LC8 form stable intermediate complexes with excess LC8 , which of the seven recognition sites in Drosophila ASCIZ are preferentially bound ? Therefore , to examine interactions between individual motifs and LC8 in the context of the full dLBD , we turned to NMR . As unlabeled LC8 is titrated into solutions of 15N-13C- labeled dLBD , changes in NH peak intensities can be measured in 3D HNCO spectra recorded for dLBD:LC8 molar ratios of 1:0 . Notably , peaks at the C-terminal half of the protein , QT4-7 , decrease more quickly than peaks at the N-terminal half , implying that LC8 preferentially occupies these motifs . QT2-4 was chosen to further validate LC8 binding to the QT3 motif that as an individual peptide showed weak binding by ITC , and QT4-6 was chosen because it has the highest LC8 binding affinity  . Unlabeled LC8 was titrated into 15N-labeled QT2-4 or QT4-6 and changes in peak intensity were analyzed  . As with dLBD , there is a gradual decrease in peak intensity as more LC8 is added to QT2-4 or to QT4-6 at molar ratios: 1:0 . Significantly , peak intensities in QT4-6 decrease at lower LC8 ratio than in QT2-4 , confirming the trend we observe in full-length dLBD . Furthermore , NMR titration of QT2-4 with LC8 confirms that QT3 is an LC8 binding motif . The peaks corresponding to QT3 decrease in intensity at the same rate as peaks corresponding to the QT2 and QT4 motifs . Plots of the average peak intensity  for each 10-amino acid motif in dLBD , and in each of QT2-4 and QT4-6 constructs clearly show the dichotomy in the pattern of peak attenuation  . This dichotomy is replicated in separate plots of the 3 QT motifs in each of the constructs QT2-4 and QT4-6; the average I/I0 of motifs in QT2-4  drops to 0 . 2 at LC8 molar ratio 1:2 , twice that observed for motifs in QT4-6  which reach the same I/I0 at molar ratio 1:1 . In summary , the data in Figure 6 showing peak attenuation across the whole sequence , even at low LC8 ratios , suggest population of an ensemble with all LC8 sites occupied to varying degree , but with clear preference for the C-terminal motifs . Preferential binding of the C-terminal motifs is additionally supported by ITC results , which show that LC8 binds to the QT4-6 construct with slightly higher affinity than the full-length dLBD  . NMR dynamics experiments also demonstrate that residues in the C-terminal motifs are slightly more ordered in comparison to the N-terminal motifs  , which may explain the tighter LC8 binding to this region . To investigate how the number of bound LC8 molecules affects the transcriptional activity of ASCIZ , we turned our attention to the human protein whose transcriptional activity can be assayed in cell culture using an ASCIZ knockout mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line  . Human ASCIZ has eleven LC8 recognition motifs that we have numbered 1 to 11  . To prevent LC8 binding to specific ASCIZ motifs , TQT recognition motifs were mutated to AAA . Five human ASCIZ mutant constructs were generated: AAA1-4 with an AAA replacement at each TQT motifs 1–4 , and similarly named mutant constructs of AAA8-11; AAA5-11; AAA1-4 , 8–11; and AAA-all . To confirm loss of LC8 binding in vitro for each TQT when replaced with AAA , identical mutations were made in ASCIZ hLBD constructs , named in the same fashion . To completely eliminate LC8 binding in the AAA-all construct , it was necessary to also mutate three SQT/VQT motifs in addition to the 11 TQT motifs identified in our ITC experiments and in pepscan experiments   . This suggests that human ASCIZ may contain additional binding motifs , as seen with the TMT motif in Drosophila ASCIZ . The effective affinity and stoichiometry of binding of LC8 to WT ASCIZ hLBD and each mutant hLBD was determined  . WT hLBD binds LC8 with an hLBD:LC8 ratio of 1:11  , and an overall Kd value of 0 . The four hLBD mutants each binds LC8 with the expected stoichiometry for the number of intact LC8 recognition motifs and with overall affinities in the range of 0 . To assess the impact of these mutations on ASCIZ transcriptional activity , luciferase reporter assays were carried out using immortalized ASCIZ knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts transiently transfected with the full-length WT or a mutant ASCIZ gene and a plasmid containing the LC8 promoter . The construct with the highest affinity for LC8 by ITC , AAA8-11 , exhibits equal or slightly lower transcriptional activity than WT ASCIZ , while the construct with the lowest affinity for LC8 , AAA1-4 , 8–11 , has 2 . As both the ZnF and LBDs of ASCIZ are monomeric in the absence of LC8 , a plausible explanation for this effect could be that dimerization of ASCIZ by a minimal number of LC8 molecules is required for optimal binding to the DYNLL1 gene promoter , or the binding of dimeric transcription co-activators to ASCIZ . In summary , the data in Figure 7 indicate that , in general , ASCIZ transcriptional activity appears to vary inversely with the number of LC8 recognition motifs and with binding affinity , and that fine tuning within this trend depends on which motifs are occupied and their specific dissociation constants . ASCIZ interactions with LC8 display both positive and negative cooperativity that together create a dynamic equilibrium of stable , low occupancy ASCIZ-LC8 complexes . ASCIZ binding to LC8 forms an IDP duplex scaffold  onto which other copies of LC8 or other dimeric partners can bind with higher affinity . The first two to four recognition motifs bind to LC8 with positive cooperativity , as evidenced by ITC experiments that show an enhancement in binding affinity from the presence of neighboring motifs  . Negative cooperativity regulates the formation and distribution of higher-order LC8 assemblies , as shown by the dominance of low occupancy complexes at saturating concentrations of LC8  . Negative cooperativity observed between low occupancy complexes and the fully occupied complex suggests that when the concentration of LC8 exceeds the buffering capacity of the low occupancy intermediates , the fully occupied complex is formed to switch off transcription . A distribution of low occupancy dynamic complexes is a conserved feature of the ASCIZ:LC8 interaction . Evidence for a dynamic ASCIZ:LC8 ensemble comes from a combination of AUC , gel filtration , native gel electrophoresis , and negative stain electron microscopy data  . Negative stain electron microscopy experiments show an exponential distribution of complexes , with assemblies containing 2–4 stacked copies of LC8 clearly visualized in 2D projection averages and suggesting a high degree of flexibility within the duplex IDP linkers persists upon complex formation  . Multivalency and intrinsic disorder in ASCIZ’s LC8 binding domain enable this dynamic ensemble of low occupancy complexes . These puncta do not form in the absence of LC8 , indicating that LC8 binding to multiple recognition motifs is necessary for foci formation . Comparison of ASCIZ with another LC8 multivalent binding partner , Nup159 , underscores the uniqueness of the ASCIZ-LC8 assembly . While three other multivalent LC8 binding partners with more than two recognition motifs are known to exist  , the role of multiple sites has only been characterized for ASCIZ  and Nup159  . As Nup159 has a slightly lower affinity for LC8 than ASCIZ ( 2 . 9 μM , respectively  , the difference between the Nup159 grids with uniformly stacked structures and the ASCIZ grids with sparse and heterogeneous structures of 2–4 stacked LC8 dimers is intriguing . This difference in structural heterogeneity can be attributed to the higher flexibility or short life time of ASCIZ:LC8 complexes relative to Nup159:LC8 complexes , while the scarcity of high-occupancy states is consistent with a unique mode of negative cooperativity . Given the different function of Nup159  versus ASCIZ:LC8 complexes  , the data suggest that the dynamic properties and unique mechanism of assembly that is conserved in LC8-ASCIZ complexes may reflect an important feature required for autoregulation of LC8 transcription . ASCIZ regulates its transcriptional activity by binding multiple copies of its gene product , LC8 . Cell culture based transcription assays demonstrate that ASCIZ affinity for LC8 is negatively correlated with transcriptional activity  . Although the differences between each construct are very small , we see an obvious trend where fewer occupied LC8 binding motifs lead to increased ASCIZ transcriptional activity , and vice versa . The results of this assay suggest that LC8 concentration could fine-tune ASCIZ activity in a cellular environment by shifting the population of complexes towards higher or lower occupancy states . Based on our experimental data , we have developed a model of ASCIZ transcriptional regulation that illustrates the relationship between transcriptional activity  and LC8 concentration   . As the cellular level of LC8  increases , the number of LC8 molecules bound to ASCIZ also increases . The ASCIZ-LC8 complex primarily exists as a dynamic equilibrium of different complex stoichiometries and degrees of disorder  . Thus , it is ensured that a high concentration of LC8 does not drastically decrease LC8 production , but rather shifts it to a lower level . Studies were carried out using constructs from human ASCIZ  as well as Drosophila ASCIZ   which , with its fewer recognition motifs , smaller size , and available mutant phenotypes , is a tractable model of the human ASCIZ . Constructs of the dASCIZ zinc finger domain  and the LC8 binding domain  were generated by cloning residues 1–156 or 241–388 , respectively , of Drosophila ASCIZ into the pET2Zt2-1a vector . The human LC8 binding domain  construct was generated by cloning human ASCIZ  residues 362–823 into the pET24d vector  and expressing the construct in frame with a hexahistidine tag and TEV cleavage site . For the five human ASCIZ mutants , ASCIZ AAA1-4 , AAA8-11 , AAA5-11 , AAA1-4 , 8–11 , and AAA-all , residues 7–9 of the LC8 binding motif  , were mutated to AAA to prevent binding . Binding thermodynamics of the ASCIZ and dASCIZ construct/peptide-LC8 interactions were obtained at 25°C with a VP-ITC microcalorimeter  . LC8 = 14 , 565 M−1cm−1 , dLBD = 17 , 085 M−1cm−1 , LBD = 15 , 470 M−1cm−1 , QT1−3 = 2 , 980 M−1cm−1 , QT2−4 = 2 , 980 M−1cm−1 , QT4−6 = 10 , 095 M−1cm−1 , QT4−7 = 14 , 105 M−1cm−1 . For binding of dASCIZ constructs QT1-3 , QT2-4 , QT4-6 , and QT4-7 , 10 μM of construct was titrated with 400 μM LC8 . ASCIZ hLBD and mutant hLBD constructs were placed in the reaction cell at a concentration of 9–16 μM and titrated with 900 μM LC8 . Interaction of unlabeled LC8 and 13C-15N labeled dLBD was characterized by collecting three-dimensional BEST-TROSY-HNCO spectra at multiple molar ratios of LC8 , 1: 0 . For the interaction of unlabeled LC8 with 15N-labeled QT2-4  or QT4-6  , two-dimensional BEST-TROSY-HSQC spectra were collected at the molar ratios  1:0 . For native gel electrophoresis titrations , dLBD or hLBD and LC8 were incubated at the molar ratios listed above and run on a 10% polyacrylamide gel at a constant 10 mAmps for 5–7 hr . 30 μl of dLBD:LC8 complex  at five different concentrations for each sample  were exposed to X-rays and scattering data collected using the robotic sample handling available at the beamline . Electron microscopy  studies were conducted using dLBD and hLBD incubated with a molar excess of LC8 , and the formed complexes were negatively stained for contrast enhancement using established protocols  . Briefly , dLBD  was mixed with LC8 at a molar ratio 1:8 , and human hLBD peptide  was mixed with LC8 at a molar ratio of 1:13 , in EM buffer containing 20 mM Tris , pH 7 . For the dLBD-LC8 specimen , a total of 2574 single particle images were extracted from ~300 micrographs , and for hLBD-LC8 , 1234 particles were extracted from ~200 micrographs . Particles that could not be confidently assigned were discarded , leaving 2334 oligomers assigned for the dLBD:LC8 and 967 for hLBD:LC8 datasets . Complexes containing only a single LC8 dimer could not be distinguished from unbound LC8 particles , and were not included in our analysis . As a positive control , Nucleoporin159  in complex with LC8 was also prepared for negative stain EM under similar conditions to the dLBD/hLBD samples , and as previously described   . As a negative control , we prepared EM grids with LC8 alone and dLBD/hLBD alone . To measure transcriptional activity of ASCIZ mutants , six ASCIZ constructs were cloned into the pEGFP vector  : WT ASCIZ  , ΔZnF  , ASCIZ AAA1-4 , ASCIZ AAA8-11 , ASCIZ AAA5-11 , and ASCIZ AAA1-4 , 8–11 . Using FuGENE 6  , immortalized ASCIZ knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts   were co-transfected with ASCIZ constructs , the Dynll1 promoter , and a pRL-CMV vector containing Renilla luciferase for normalization of firefly/luciferase ratios . "
"Sustained changes in mood or action require persistent changes in neural activity , but it has been difficult to identify the neural circuit mechanisms that underlie persistent activity and contribute to long-lasting changes in behavior . Here , we show that a subset of Doublesex+ pC1 neurons in the Drosophila female brain , called pC1d/e , can drive minutes-long changes in female behavior in the presence of males . Using automated reconstruction of a volume electron microscopic  image of the female brain , we map all inputs and outputs to both pC1d and pC1e . This reveals strong recurrent connectivity between , in particular , pC1d/e neurons and a specific subset of Fruitless+ neurons called aIPg . We additionally find that pC1d/e activation drives long-lasting persistent neural activity in brain areas and cells overlapping with the pC1d/e neural network , including both Doublesex+ and Fruitless+ neurons . Our work thus links minutes-long persistent changes in behavior with persistent neural activity and recurrent circuit architecture in the female brain . In male flies , a small population of male-specific neurons  that express the sex-specific transcription factors Fruitless and Doublesex  , drive both male-aggression and male-mating behaviors  . Brief optogenetic activation of P1 neurons drives both persistent song production in solitary males and persistent aggression upon introduction of another male , both over minutes  . While P1 activation is sufficient for eliciting the persistent behavioral phenotypes , other groups of neurons , such as pCd  , are involved in maintaining the persistent state  - these neurons are not synaptically coupled to P1 , and the circuit architecture that mediates persistence remains unresolved . P1 neurons also receive dopaminergic input that affects mating drive over longer timescales of hours  , suggesting neuromodulation is also important for persistent changes in behavior driven by P1 . In male mice , optogenetic activation of SF1  expressing neurons in the dorsomedial part of the ventromedial hypothalamus  drive multiple defensive behaviors that outlast the stimulation by up to 1 min  . P1 neurons are a subset of the larger Doublesex+ pC1 neural subset  . While Drosophila females lack P1 neurons , they have Doublesex+ pC1 neurons  , including a subset that are female-specific  . Activation of pC1 neurons affects receptivity toward males  , drives chasing of males  , and aggressive behaviors toward females  . These data suggest that female pC1 neurons can drive an arousal state , similar to male P1 neurons , but whether female pC1 neurons can drive persistent changes in behavior and persistent neural activity , has not yet been investigated . Importantly , a complete electron microscopic volume is currently available for the entire adult female brain  , making it possible to link brain activity to complete wiring diagrams in females . Direct measurements of synaptic connectivity can determine whether recurrent neural networks , known to be important for persistent neural activity lasting for seconds  , also underlie minutes-long persistent activity and changes in behavior , as has been recently proposed for male mice and flies  . Here , we show that pC1 activation drives persistent changes in female behavior for minutes following stimulus offset , and we identify the subset of pC1 neurons  that affects the persistent aggressive and male-like behaviors . , 2020 demonstrates that pC1d , but not pC1e , drives female aggressive behaviors . By leveraging the automated segmentation of an electron microscopic volume of the female brain  , we map all inputs and outputs of both pC1d and pC1e and find a strong recurrent neural network with Fruitless+ aIPg neurons . Using pan-neuronal calcium imaging , we find that pC1d/e activation can elicit persistent activity for minutes among multiple cell types . The persistent activity is present in Doublesex+ and Fruitless+ neurons , including pC1 neurons themselves . We thus link minutes-long persistent neural activity and behavior with reciprocal connectivity in the female brain . To investigate the neural basis of a persistent internal state in the female brain , we focused on pC1 neurons , one of eight Doublesex-expressing cell types in the central brain  . We used an intersection between two driver lines  , to label pC1 neurons , as done previously  – prior work shows this line labels , per hemisphere , ~6 neurons , all of which project to the lateral junction  . Silencing pC1-Int neurons in females affects receptivity Zhou et al . , 2014; we corroborated these results  and additionally showed that silencing pC1-Int neurons diminished responses to male song  . Persistent changes in the behavioral state of Drosophila males have been studied by examination of social behaviors following optogenetic activation of P1 neurons  . We activated pC1-Int in a solitary virgin female for 5 min , followed by a variable delay period , after which a virgin male was introduced to examine female behaviors in the context of courtship  - there was no optogenetic activation following the first 5 min . We found that activation of pC1-Int neurons induces a persistent effect on female receptivity and responses to male song , but that this effect diminishes with a delay period between neural activation and introduction of a male . pC1-Int-activated females copulated significantly faster than controls in the d0 condition , with reduced copulations following a delay between optogenetic activation and introduction of a male  . Another set of Dsx+ neurons called pCd1  was also shown to control female receptivity  and , additionally , to enable P1-induced persistent activity in males  . While we confirmed that pCd1 silencing in females reduced receptivity  , we found that 5 min pCd1 activation had no persistent effect on female receptivity  . Activating pC1-Int also produced a persistent effect on responses to male song , overall with the strongest effect at the d0 delay  - d0 females , in comparison with controls , accelerated more in response to all song elements , behaving like unreceptive females  . This effect was not due to changes in wild-type male song structure for the d0 condition , although male song bouts were shorter and less frequent in the d3 and d6 conditions  , possibly due to the strong effect of pC1-Int activation on male-female interactions at longer delays , as shown below . Because at d0 , females are both hyper-receptive  but also accelerate in response to song , we suspect that different subsets of pC1 neurons may control these two effects . To quantify other behaviors elicited by pC1-Int activation , we used an unsupervised approach , and first decomposed male and female movements and interactions into 17 parameters  . The weight of fmAngle is negative because this parameter is smaller in the experimental flies compared with controls , indicating that pC1-Int activated females spend more time facing the male  . Five of the clusters describe behaviors that are the same or reduced following pC1-Int activation  . Two clusters , however , describe behaviors that occur with higher probability following pC1-Int activation  . Based on the weight values , and verified by inspection of the videos following clustering  , we termed cluster 2 ‘female shoving’ and cluster 4 ‘female chasing’ . For both female shoving and female chasing , the amount of each behavior was highest in the d3 condition relative to control  . We then used JAABA  to train a classifier to recognize epochs  of female chasing and female shoving in the data  . This analysis confirmed that the amount of female shoving and chasing was greatest in the d3 condition relative to control  , in addition to revealing that the duration of female chasing and shoving bouts was longer  . In many cases females transitioned directly between shoving and chasing , and the conditioned probability  for shoving →chasing was more than double at the d3 condition compared to the d0 and d6 conditions . By examining shoving and chasing probabilities over time  , following the introduction of a male  , we found that both behaviors persisted for as long as 30 min in the d3 condition  , but not in the d0 and d6 conditions , suggesting a complex interaction between neural activity in the female brain at the time of introduction of the male and feedback or social cues . While the percent of time females spent shoving or chasing in the first two minutes after the male was introduced was similar in the d0 and d3 conditions  , shoving and chasing probabilities rose over time in the d3 , but not in the d0 condition . We also activated another Dsx+ cell type , pCd1 , which is part of a circuit that drives persistent behavior in the male brain  , but observed neither shoving nor chasing following 5 min of pCd1 activation in females  . This suggests that the persistent behavioral effects we observe are specific to pC1 activation . Manual inspection of the videos identified several additional behaviors produced by females following pC1-Int activation  . We found that some of these behaviors were coupled; for example , ‘circling’ was often preceded by ‘female shoving’  and ‘female wing extension’ was often coincident with ‘female chasing’  , similar to male behavior during courtship ( although we did not observe sounds from the females that resembled male courtship song  ) . Our automated behavioral classifier did not find these behaviors because we only tracked the head and thorax of each fly , which did not provide enough information to automatically identify these behaviors , or to keep accurate track of identities during behaviors in which the male and female often overlap  . In sum , we found that for minutes following pC1-Int activation , females produced a variety of behaviors directed at the male . In contrast , the effect on female receptivity and female responses to male song , were both strongest in the d0 condition , ruling out the possibility that the effect on female receptivity is an indirect consequence of modified male courtship behavior in response to changes in female behaviors . Below we identify the pC1 cell types that drive persistent shoving and chasing , determine that they are part of a recurrent neural network using a new EM connectomic resource , and demonstrate that they can drive persistent neural activity on timescales similar to behavior . In the first configuration , the same set of pC1 neurons activate different downstream circuits , each one controlling a different behavior . In the second configuration , three non-overlapping subsets of pC1 neurons control the different behaviors . In the third configuration , one pC1 subset controls female receptivity  , and another set controls chasing and shoving  . To evaluate these circuit models , we examined the behavioral consequences of activating distinct subsets of pC1 neurons . To define pC1 cell types , we used automated reconstruction of neurons in an EM volume of a female brain  ; neuron segmentation and reconstruction were accomplished using a novel platform for visualization and proofreading called FlyWire  . We examined the morphologies of neurons that send projections to the lateral junction through a thin neuronal bundle , as pC1 neurons are known to  . We systematically checked all cell segments that pass through a cross-section in the pC1 bundle  and excluded neurons that do not project to the lateral junction  , as all pC1 cells characterized so far project to the lateral junction  . We found five pC1 cells per hemisphere  , consistent with the cell types found from manual tracing in the same EM volume  , although with differences in some projections  . pC1-A labels a single pC1d and a single pC1e neuron in each hemisphere  and no cells in the VNC  . The second intersection  does not label pC1d or pC1e cells , as evidenced by absence of the medial projections of pC1d/e neurons  . 7 ± 4 pC1 cells per hemisphere in the brain , and no cells in the VNC  . Next , we tested if activation of these two non-overlapping pC1 sub-populations drives persistent behavioral phenotypes . Activation of either line pC1-A or pC1-S did not affect female receptivity  , but activation of pC1-A drove persistent shoving and chasing  , while activation of pC1-S did not  . These results are consistent with model 3  , in which female receptivity and female shoving/chasing are driven by different populations , and also consistent with prior work , showing that 10 min of thermogenetic pC1-A activation drives persistent chasing in females  . pC1d/e neurons are female-specific  , and prior work reveals that pC1 neurons in females , but not males , respond to courtship song  . Using in vivo whole-cell patch clamp recordings of neurons labeled in the pC1-A line , we found that pC1d/e neurons in virgin females depolarize in response to features in conspecific courtship song  . This finding indicates that pC1d/e neurons can be activated during courtship by male song . When examining the fraction of time spent shoving or chasing across the three conditions  to compare results of activating neurons in pC1-A and pC1-Int lines  , we found that levels of female chasing are increased with pC1-A activation  at d3 . This suggests that pC1 cell types in the pC1-Int driver , other than pC1d/e  , have a modulatory effect on the shoving and chasing behaviors , at distinct timepoints . pC1-Int , but not pC1-A , activation drives persistent female receptivity  , indicating that pC1-Int cells other than pC1d/e drive female receptivity  . We hypothesized that the same pC1-Int cells that drive female receptivity , also affect the probability of shoving and chasing . Indeed , we found that following pC1-Int activation , females that eventually copulated  showed a slightly higher level of shoving compared with females that did not eventually copulate  , although this effect was not statistically significant  . Taken together , our results suggest that cells within the pC1-Int line that control receptivity modulate the amount of female chasing   . We also tested shorter activation durations and found robust persistent shoving and chasing following 2 min activation , but reduced persistent shoving and chasing following 30 s activation  . Below we address how minutes-long pC1d/e activation affects neural activity . The pC1-A line  includes two cells per hemisphere , one pC1d and one pC1e cell . , 2020 have demonstarted that optogenetic activation of genetic lines that contain pC1d , but not pC1e , drive female aggressive behaviors , such as those we refer to here as ‘shoving’ . We therefore first focused on pC1d , and mapped the major inputs and outputs , searching for circuit motifs that could account for pC1d’s ability to drive a persistent behavioral state in females . This volume contains both brain hemispheres , enabling complete reconstruction of pC1d cells that send projections across the midline  . Focusing on a single pC1d cell  we first manually detected synaptic connections  , as done previously for other circuits in FAFB  - while our manual detection process was unbiased , in that we looked for synapses between pC1d and any other overlapping segment in FlyWire  , we only sampled a subset of all pC1d synapses  . After proofreading the pC1d cell and its input and output cells , and excluding neurons with weak connections  , we counted a total of 417 presynaptic and 421 postsynaptic sites  . We sorted all pC1d synaptic partners by cell type , based on morphology , and examined the distribution of synapses by type for input  and output  neurons separately  . The three output types with the largest number of synapses with pC1d share a common morphology: all pass through a single neurite bundle  and all send projections to the ring  , including dense projections in the lateral junction  . FlyWire cells that share the aIP-g morphology were sorted into three types , aIPg-a , aIPg-b , and aIPg-c , based on the three separate bundles through which their projections pass  . According to our manual synapse detection , aIPg-a cells have 131 sites postsynaptic to pC1d and only five presynaptic sites , while aIPg-b , c cells have stronger reciprocal connections with pC1d , with an output:input ratio of ~1:1  for aIPg-b , and 2 . We re-evaluated synaptic partners using automatic detection , and focused on cells with strong connections with pC1d using two criteria:  minimum of six synapses ,  the cell belongs to a cell type  with at least one cell with 15 synapses or more with pC1d . Consistent with manual detection , we found that aIPg-a cells are postsynaptic to pC1d , while aIPg-b , c are reciprocally connected to pC1d  . Interestingly , the most interconnected cells within the aIPg-b group were also the ones that are reciprocally connected to pC1d  . We also examined synaptic connectivity between pC1d and aIPg cells in a second EM database that consists of a portion of the adult female brain  , and found a set of 13 neurons identified as aIPg  , compared with 39 neurons we identified as aIPg in FlyWire . Twelve of these aIPg cells  share the aIPg-b morphology  , and are synaptically connected to pC1d  . Consistent with our results in FlyWire , pC1d in the hemibrain has more presynaptic sites than postsynaptic sites with aIPg-b  cells , and aIPg-b neurons form many recurrent connections with each other  . 1 , we found additional cells that match  neurons we term aIPg-a and aIPg-c – these neurons are called SMP555/556 and SMP558 , respectively . Finally , in FlyWire , we found that pC1d forms connections with other Dsx+ cells , including direct connections with pMN1  and pMN2   , other pC1 cells  , and pC2-like cells with similar morphology to Fru+ pIP5 cells  . These results indicate that pC1d may serve as a hub within the central brain for Dsx+ and Fru+ neurons  . Using automated synapse detection in FlyWire , we examined all the major inputs and outputs of both pC1d  and pC1e  , as our driver line pC1-A labeled both neurons in each hemisphere  . aIPg-b neurons have the most reciprocal connections with pC1d , and the three strongest output types of pC1d are aIPg-a  , aIPg-c  , and aIPg-b  . The pC1d output:input ratio with aIPg  was 588:0 for aIPg-a , 2 . 3:1 for aIPg-c  – consistent with the results obtained by manual detection , showing that aIPg-b has the most ‘balanced’ reciprocal connectivity with pC1d . For pC1e  , of the top inputs and outputs , the only reciprocal connections were with aIPg-b . Shared inputs between pC1d and pC1e also include pC1a , a cell previously shown to control female receptivity  . Some of the top connections of pC1d were cross-hemispheric neurons or neurons with synapses contralateral to pC1d  – these neurons and connections fall outside of the volume of the hemibrain . Seven of the aIPg cells that are pC1d synaptic partners , also synapse with pC1e  . As recurrent connectivity between neurons is known to support persistent neural activity  , we next examined whether activating pC1d/e could drive long-lasting changes in brain activity , with a spatial distribution that matches the pC1d or pC1e connectomes . To relate our findings above to persistent neural activity , we first activated either neurons in the pC1-A or pC1-S lines using 5 min of optogenetic stimulation  , and imaged responding cells via GCaMP6s expressed pan-neuronally  . To compare activity across flies and to map activity onto a reference atlas , we used a recently developed pipeline for two-photon volumetric calcium imaging , motion correction , registration , and region-of-interest  segmentation  , and scanned the entirety  of the dorsal half of a single brain hemisphere  in each fly  – we mirrored all activity onto one hemisphere for display . The temporal dynamics of persistent neural activity , continuing to at least 10 min following stimulation , is consistent with our observation of female shoving and chasing of a male introduced 6 min after stimulation offset  . While response type 1 had low spatial consistency across animals , response types 2–4 showed higher spatial consistency , and the spatial distribution of ROIs differed between controls , pC1-S , and pC1-A activated flies  . Activation of pC1d/e neurons  drove persistent activity  in more than 30% of the imaged flies , and in 24 . Making use of neuropil segmentation of an in vivo brain atlas to which all ROIs were registered  , we evaluated the distribution of pC1d/e-elicited activity by brain neuropil  . Persistent activity  was clustered in the posterior-dorsal portion of the brain spanning the Superior Medial , Lateral and Intermediate Protocerebrum  , the Anterior Optic Tubercle  , and the Inferior and Superior Clamp  ; these brain regions contain a large number of projections from sexually dimorphic neurons expressing either Doublesex or Fruitless  . Our behavioral results indicated that female brain state must differ between the d0 , d3 , and d6 conditions  – we therefore quantified neural activity at these specific time points  following optogenetic activation . In order to measure the overlap of pC1-elicited activity with Dsx+ neurons , we generated anatomical labels for the lateral protocerebral complex  , a diffuse brain area to which all Dsx+ neurons send their projections , and also for all major groups of Dsx+ somas  within the in vivo brain atlas  . We found that ROIs with persistent activity  overlap with the LPC , in addition to the regions occupied by pC1 somas , and to a lesser extent with regions occupied by pC2 , pCd1 , and pCd2 somas , suggesting that Dsx+ pC1 neurons carry persistent activity . We also looked for overlap between ROIs with persistent activity and the projections of individual aIPg neurons , all registered into the same reference brain  . We also examined persistent activity following a shorter activation period of 2 min , and found ROIs with persistent activity  . The persistent activity following 2 min activation was weaker in this condition compared to 5 min activation , suggesting that persistent activity scales with the activation period . We next expressed GCaMP6s in only Dsx+ neurons , to confirm the specific Dsx+ cells with persistent neural activity – this is possible because Dsx+ somas are clustered by cell type  . We activated pC1d/e neurons for 5 min  and recorded activity in 273 cells  across 16 flies . We examined the responses during  and after  optogenetic stimulation  , and compared these responses to controls in which pC1d/e neurons were not activated  . A number of Dsx+ pC1 cells showed strong persistent activity  following optogenetic activation . We observed some heterogeneity in responses across the pC1 cells  , with some cells showing faster decay than others following stimulus offset , consistent with the two clusters underlying response type 2  . We did not observe persistent activity in any non-pC1 Dsx-expressing cell types  , including pC2 neurons or pCd1 neurons , previously shown to be necessary for P1-induced persistent activity in males  . Last , using the same methodology , we examined neural activity in single Fru+ cells following pC1d/e activation , by expressing GCaMP6s via the Fru-LexA driver  . We found persistent activity in two group of cells , denoted as ‘Group 1’ and ‘Group 2’  , that often lasted over a minute following activation  – ROIs drawn manually for individual cells within each group . By comparing the location of Fru+ cell bodies with persistent activity with the position of single Fru+ cells and to the location of pC1/pC2/aIPg cells in FlyWire  . We conclude that Group 2 includes pC1 neurons , while Group 1 likely includes pC2/pIP5 neurons and possibly also aIP-g cells . The persistent activity is most likely not in Dsx+/Fru+ pC2 neurons given our observations that Dsx+ pC2 cells do not show persistent activity following pC1d/e activation , but could be in pIP-e  . In sum , our pan-neuronal imaging reveals that female brain state is different at 0 and 3 min following activation , providing an explanation for the differences in behaviors produced following introduction of a male at these different delays . In addition , by clustering response types , we were able to map pC1d/e-driven persistent neural activity to brain regions containing both Dsx+ neurons and Fru+ aIPg neurons , and with follow-up experiments showed that several Dsx+ pC1 neurons as well as Fru+ putative pC1 and aIPg cells contain persistent neural activity . We used unsupervised methods to identify the most prominent behaviors  produced following activation of pC1 neurons in virgin females - these include behaviors that resemble male courtship  and aggression   . Both behaviors are not typically observed in mature virgin females interacting with a male; this suggests that sensory cues from the virgin male do not inhibit these aberrant behaviors , but rather may enhance the persistent effects of pC1 activation  , most likely via visual inputs to aIPg neurons  . pC1 neurons also drive aggressive behaviors toward females during stimulation  , but whether the quality of aggression generated toward males versus females is similar remains to be determined . As one of our manually scored behaviors , ‘female approaching’  , begins from a distance greater than four body lengths from the male fly  and often ends with shoving or circling  , we hypothesize that pC1 activation most likely drives persistent behaviors toward another fly , and not specifically a male or female fly , consistent with  . In Drosophila , female-female fights over food source are strongly stimulated by the receipt of sperm at mating  , and include both patterns that are common with male aggression  and female-only patterns  . Female-male aggression was reported in the context of rejecting behavior in mated , immature , or older females  . The behavioral changes in our study do not mimic those in a mated female , as we also observe that pC1 activation drives enhanced receptivity . Although we have not confirmed which pC1 cell types control receptivity , our work reveals a separation: pC1d/e neurons are sufficient to drive persistent shoving/chasing , but do not have a persistent effect on female receptivity  , while separate pC1 neurons that control receptivity modulate the pathways that control chasing and aggression  . Recent work reveals that pC1a neurons are modulated by the sex peptide receptor pathway , such that following mating  , pC1a neurons are inhibited  . Because we find that pC1a provides direct input to pC1d and pC1e neurons  , we speculate that pC1a provides this receptivity information . Interestingly , work in male flies suggests a separation in pC1 subsets that control courtship versus aggression  , with reciprocal inhibitory influences between persistent courtship and aggression , following pC1 activation  . Although the phenotypes are sex-specific  , and the pC1 subsets driving these behaviors are sex-specific  , this suggests some common architecture . Because courtship interactions unfold over many minutes  , we postulate that the changes in brain state we observed following pC1d/e activation may occur naturally as females receive continual drive to pC1 neurons . Our connectomic analyses reveal inputs to pC1d/e neurons from AVLP cells  . The AVLP contains multiple auditory cells  - this is consistent with our patch clamp recordings of pC1d/e neurons  , showing auditory activity , and also with prior work on auditory responses in female , but not in male pC1 neurons  . Thus , during natural courtship interactions , male song should drive pC1d/e neurons – in combination with other inputs , this may shift behaviors from receptive ones toward chasing and shoving . FlyWire enabled a systematic search for all the synaptic partners of a single pC1d and pC1e cell . Using manual and automatic synapse detection  , we found that pC1d is reciprocally connected with aIPg-b and aIPg-c cells and that aIPg-b and aIPg-c cells are also interconnected – pC1e also shows reciprocal connectivity with aIPg-b neurons . We also identified pC1d and aIPg-c cells in a separate EM volume of an adult female brain , the hemibrain  , and found similar results  . Because FlyWire is based on the FAFB dataset of the entire adult female brain  , our search for synaptic partners of pC1d and pC1e could completely cover both hemispheres , showing that , for example , pC1d is reciprocally connected to itself in the contralateral hemisphere , and is presynaptic to some contralateral aIPg cells . , 2020 demonstrates that pC1d , pC1e , and aIPg neurons are all cholinergic , suggesting these neurons make up an excitatory neural network . While our study found persistent changes in behavior following pC1d/e activation , the Schretter et al . , 2020 demonstrate that aIPg-b activation drives persistent female aggression following activation , and that increasing stimulation of aIPg-b , increases the amount of persistent aggression . This is consistent with a model in which strong activation of pC1d/e neurons recruits aIPg-b neurons  to drive , at least , persistent shoving . Work in male flies has proposed a recurrent circuit motif including pCd neurons that contributes to persistent aggressive behaviors  or even longer term changes in mating drive  . Our studies of pCd , revealed that , in females , it does not contribute to the persistent arousal state  , nor is it persistently active following pC1d/e activation  . In males , activating P1 neurons for 5 s was enough to induce some persistent activity in pCd cells  . We did not measure neural responses to pC1d/e stimulation shorter than 2 min , and so whether shorter activation periods drive some persistent neural activity in females remains open . While pC1d/e neurons are female-specific , aIPg neurons are present in both males and females – it will be interesting to determine what role the aIPg neurons play in male brains and whether they represent a shared component of persistence in the two sexes . Half of the outputs of pC1d are the aIPg neurons , and many of these neurons  are strong inputs . Our identification of a recurrent circuit motif containing pC1d links it to the persistent neural activity and changes in behavior we observe following activation , especially in Fru+ somas . Figure panelGenotypeAdditional information1AUAS-2xEGFP; Dsx-Gal4Immunostaining1C-Dw;R71G01-LexA/8xLexAop2-FLP; Dsx-Gal4/UAS > STOP > TNTExpress TNT in pC1-Int1S1Bw;R41A01-LexA/8xLexAop2-FLP; Dsx-Gal4/UAS > STOP > TNTExpress TNT in pCd1 neurons1C-D , 1S1Bw;+/8xLexAop2-FLP;Dsx-Gal4/UAS > STOP > TNTControl for TNT expression in pC1-Int and in pCd11 F-G , 2 , 4 F-H , 1S1D , 2S1 , 2S2B-C , 2S3w;R71G01-LexA/8xLexAop2-FLP; Dsx-Gal4/10xUAS > STOP > ReachRExpress ReachR in pC1-Int neurons; ATR+ experimental , ATR- control1S1C , 2S2Aw;R41A01-LexA/8xLexAop2-FLP; Dsx-Gal4/10xUAS > STOP > ReachRExpress ReachR in pCd1 neurons; ATR+ experimental , ATR- control4D-Ew;R71G01 . DBD/UAS-ReachRExpress ReachR in ‘pC1-s’ neurons  ; ATR+ for experimental , ATR- for control4A-C , F , Jw;VT25602 . DBD/10xUAS-ReachRExpress ReachR in ‘pC1-A’ neurons  ; ATR+ for experimental , ATR- for controls . pC1-A is similar to pC1dSS3 in Schretter et al . 4S1w;UAS-2xEGFP/+;VT25602-Gal4/+Express GFP in pC1d/e neurons for patch clamp recordings3D  , 3S2Cw;R71G01 . Seventeen parameters were extracted for each frame based on the tracking of male and female centroid and heading  , describing either the female movements  , male movements  , or male-female interaction  . The Janelia Automatic Animal Behavior Annotator  was used to detect epochs of ‘female shoving’ and ‘female chasing’ . The trained shoving classifier was used to annotate each frame as belonging or not belonging to ‘female shoving’ epoch , and the trained chasing classifier was used independently to classify each frame as belonging or not-belonging to a ‘female chasing’ epoch . Three behaviors were annotated by two observers: female shoving , female chasing and circling  . Within FlyWire , we first searched for reconstructed segments that match the morphology of known pC1 cells . We used anatomical landmarks to find the bundle that projects dorsally from pC1 cells bodies  . Based on known morphology of female pC1 cells  , we defined cells as pC1 when they crossed through the pC1 bundle , and also projected to the lateral junction  . Similarly , pC2l cells were found by looking through the pC2l bundle  . The aIPg cells were first found by searching for neurons synaptically connected to pC1d  , and other aIPg cells were found by systematically exploring a cross section within the aIPg bundle  . pMN1 and pMN2 were found when mapping the pC1d synaptic partners , and then named pMN1 and pMN2 based on their morphology  . pC1 and aIPg cells were sorted manually into subtypes based on morphology  . pC1 was divided into five subtypes , and aIPg were divided into three subtypes . We mapped all the direct inputs and outputs of a single pC1d neuron  by manually detecting pre- and postsynaptic partners for this cell . Around 10% of the inputs to pC1d and about 60% of the outputs were short segments  , that we could not connect to backbones in order to identify or proofread the connected neuron . The twigs were not restricted to a specific part of the pC1d cell , and we therefore believe that they do not impose a bias on the distribution of pC1d connections , though it is possible that specific output types  are less likely to be detected . Following the detection of pC1d synaptic partners , we mapped the inputs and outputs to pC1d in three steps . Second , we eliminated cells that connect to pC1d with less than three synapses , to reduce the number of potential false positives , and to focus on stronger connections . In order to look for connections between pC1 and pC2 cells  in an unbiased way  , we first identified and proofread pC1 and pC2 cells . Synaptic connections between individual cells of pC1 or pC2 type were detected by manually inspecting the volume plane by plane . We estimated the reliability of synapse detection by manually testing all the synapsis between pC1d  and two different output cells  . We detected all the inputs and outputs of a single pC1d  and a single pC1e  cells . Cells were included in the count only if they followed the following two criteria:  Connected to the inspected pC1d or pC1e with six synapses or more and  is part of a cell type  that includes at least one cell with strong connection  with pC1d or pC1e . We imaged brain activity following pC1 optogenetic activation  under a two-photon custom made microscope  in females , using the calcium indicator GCaMP6s  . For pC1 activation , we used the same temporal pattern as the one used in the behavioral experiments: 5 or 2 min of light on , at 100 Hz and 50% duty cycle . To evaluate the diversity of these coarse activity types , we hierarchically clustered transient and persistent responses  , obtaining two clusters of transient responses and two clusters of persistent responses  . For recordings of Dsx+ cell types , we imaged pC1 , pC2 , pCd1 , and pCd2 cells  , located in the dorsal side of the central brain , at a speed of 0 . Briefly , virgin female flies  were mounted and dissected as described previously , and the cell bodies were accessed from the posterior surface of the head and visualized by expressing GFP in pC1-A neurons  – 1 cell was recorded per fly . "
"Yet how group members effectively coordinate their contributions during intergroup conflict remains poorly understood . Here we examine the role of oxytocin for  contributions to group attack or defense in a multi-round , real-time feedback economic contest . In a double-blind placebo-controlled study with N=480 males in an Intergroup Attacker-Defender contest game , we found that oxytocin reduced contributions to attack and over time increased attacker’s within-group coordination of contributions . However , rather than becoming peaceful , attackers given oxytocin better tracked their rival’s historical defense and coordinated their contributions into well-timed and hence more profitable attacks . Our results reveal coordination of contributions as a critical component of successful attacks and subscribe to the possibility that oxytocin enables individuals to contribute to in-group efficiency and prosperity even when doing so implies outsiders are excluded or harmed . Across human history , intergroup conflict functioned as a critical change agent and selection pressure that may have shaped the biological preparedness for in-group oriented cooperation and self-sacrifice on the one hand , and out-group hostility and aggression on the other hand  . Out-group hostility and aggression serves to subordinate and exploit rivaling out-groups  , and/or to defend the in-group against such hostility from neighboring groups   . Recent work has showed that individuals are more strongly motivated to contribute to defend one’s own group than to attack out-groups and , importantly , that out-group attacks frequently fail because individual contributions to out-group attacks are poorly coordinated  . Indeed , attacking rivals who are expected to have strong defenses more likely results in failure and waste , than attacking groups expected to be weak and defenseless  . Thus , to succeed in intergroup competition and conflict , group members not only need to contribute to their group’s competitive strength , but they also need to coordinate within their group the intensity and timing of attacks . How group members coordinate behavior into effective joint actions during intergroup competition and conflict remains poorly understood  and we lack insight into the underlying neurobiological mechanism . Here , we target the neuro-hormone oxytocin as a neurobiological mechanism underlying within-group coordination of out-group attack in dynamic intergroup contests . Studies in ethnography and anthropology have shown that small groups preparing for intergroup conflict build cohesion and commitment through social bonding routines and rituals . Groups selectively invite friends to join a raid  , bond like family  , and engage in cultural rituals that simulate self-sacrifice , cooperation and coordination  . In turn , intranasal administration of oxytocin has been shown to modulate neural responses in brain regions involved in threat detection and reward processing  . Moreover , in both non-human and human primates , elevated levels of oxytocin via intranasal administration have been linked to a range of cognitive and behavioral effects including within-group conformity , trust , affiliation , and cooperation  . Whereas these work together point to oxytocin as a possible neurobiological mechanism underlying group coordination , three issues remain unclear . First , we lack empirical evidence for the possibility that oxytocin promotes group-level coordination of collective action in general , and during intergroup competition and conflict in particular . Second , we poorly understand how group members coordinate collective action during intergroup competition and conflict , and whether oxytocin can directly influence coordination and/or the strategy group members use to coordinate . Third , we do not know whether oxytocin differentially modulates tacit coordination within groups when collective contributions are focused on attacking one’s rival , versus defending the in-group against possible attacks by one’s rival . To address these issues , we examined the role of oxytocin in 80 interactive , multi-round contests between three-person attacker and three-person defender groups . Group members on each side made individual contributions to their group pool  . We provided individuals with real-time feedback on group investments and success after each contest round , which allowed group members to learn and adapt to their rival’s past investments , and use the history of play as a focal point to coordinate their future attacks and defenses . Indeed , when lacking explicit coordination mechanisms such as a leader or decision-making protocols  , groups use social norms and focal points to tacitly coordinate collective action  . In multi-round intergroup contests , the rival’s history of play can serve as a focal point for groups to coordinate their contributions to attack and/or defend  . Thus , when attacking out-groups , group members may coordinate their contributions on their rival’s historical level of defense , and attack when historical defense is low and the target appears vulnerable; and not attack when historical defense is high and the target appears strong and difficult to beat . We expected effects of oxytocin to be stronger during out-group attack than during in-group defense . In-group defense is first and foremost an adaptation to the attackers’  aggression and is typically well-coordinated—individuals fight towards the same goal of self-preservation and group survival . Although there is some evidence that oxytocin may increase protective aggression  , administering oxytocin may contribute little to the relatively high baseline levels of contribution and coordination during in-group defense . In contrast , out-group attacks are typically less strong , more variable , and less well-coordinated  , leaving more room for oxytocin administration to influence behavior . We anticipated two possibilities for the effect of oxytocin . This line of research would lead us to anticipate that oxytocin may enable individuals in attacker groups to coordinate on a peaceful no-attack strategy that is independent of the rivals’ history of defense . On the other hand , oxytocin has been shown to enhance in-group conformity  , increase behavioral coordination and neural synchronization within pairs of individuals performing a joint task  , enhance facial mimicry , motor imitation , and neural responses linked to action-intention mirroring  , and improve memory and learning from feedback  . These functionalities alone and in combination may facilitate coordination on social norms and shared focal points that emerge during group interaction , suggesting that oxytocin may facilitate the use of rival’s history , enable individuals in attacker groups to coordinate better on the level and timing of their attacks , and to efficiently appropriate resources from their out-group . Evidence for this possibility would be consistent with earlier findings that oxytocin shifts the focus from self-interest to in-group interests  , limits trust and cooperation to in-group members  , and promotes aggression toward threatening rivals  . We examined these possibilities using a dynamic , fully incentivized Intergroup Attacker-Defender Contest game  . The IADC is an all-pay contest  involving six individuals randomly assigned to a three-person attacker and a three-person defender group . In the IADC game , 3 attackers made individual contributions to the group pool to subordinate the other group and increase gains through victory  , and 3 defenders contributed to their group pool to defend rival’s attack and protect against loss and defeat  . We created 80 IADC sessions  ; in 40  sessions , participants received intranasal oxytocin   . Contributions were wasted , but when GAttacker ≤ GDefender , attackers failed and defenders survived and all six individuals kept their remaining endowment  . The attacker group won and took away defender group’s remaining MU  , which were divided equally among three attacker group members ( each attacker member received:  /3 ) and added to their remaining endowments  . Thus , contributions in the attacker group  and in the defender group  reflect the contribution level to out-group attack and to in-group defense , respectively . In the other 15-round block  , individuals within groups made their decisions in sequence: one randomly drawn member made his decision first , followed by the second randomly selected member who was informed about the first member’s contribution , and then the third and final member made his decision  . The sequential decision-making protocol acts as a ‘coordination device’ that facilitates behavioral coordination within groups  . This treatment thus provides a benchmark to compare groups in the simultaneous decision-protocol who lack an explicit coordination mechanism and have to find other means—such as a shared social norm or the rival’s past defense — to coordinate individual contributions into effective joint action  . We operationalized within-group coordination as behavioral alignment of contribution to the group , indicated by the variance in contributions to group fighting , with lower group-level variance reflecting better coordination . We expected that effects of oxytocin on group coordination would emerge especially under simultaneous rather than sequential decision-making . Before examining within-group coordination , we examined treatment effects on contributions to group pool . Individual contributions were averaged across the three members within each three-person group , and submitted to a 2  × 2  × 2  × 15  mixed-model Analysis of Variance  with Treatment between-sessions . 061 ) , and somewhat less when given oxytocin rather than placebo ( M ± SE = 6 . Figure 3A showed higher contributions to in-group defense than to out-group attack , especially in earlier rounds ( Role , F  = 287 . There were more non-contributors in attacker compared to defender groups ( M ± SE = 20 . 840 ) , and more non-contributors in groups given oxytocin than placebo ( M ± SE = 13 . Crucially , oxytocin increased the number of non-contributors in attacker groups but not in defender groups ( Role × Treatment , F  = 5 . We then examined participants’ decision time when deciding to  contribute , we showed that individuals in attacker groups made their decisions to not contribute faster than to contribute ( F  =137 . Oxytocin increased the speed with which individuals in attacker groups decided to not contribute ( Treatment × Contribute: F  = 4 . Next , we analyzed group-level coordination operationalized as the within-group variance in contributions , with lower variance indicating stronger coordination  . 567 ) showing that sequential decision-protocol facilitated coordination for attack ( F  = 77 . Importantly , as predicted , oxytocin facilitated group-level coordination  of out-group attack but not of in-group defense , especially in earlier rounds ( Role × Treatment × Round , F  = 1 . To examine what strategy attackers given oxytocin coordinated on , we first examined the contest outcomes . As noted , oxytocin may enable groups to coordinate on a peaceful ‘no-attack strategy’ , in which case we should find  lower victories in attacker groups given oxytocin rather than placebo ,  the oxytocin effect on the number of non-contributing attackers should not differ when attacks succeed or fail , and  no effect of oxytocin on tracking the rival’s defense history . First , the number of victories was similar in attacker groups given oxytocin  and placebo  , ( F  =0 . Thus , rather than making groups coordinate on a peaceful no-attack strategy , oxytocin may enable groups to coordinate on attacking at the right moment with the right force . Indeed , analyses of the spoils and leftovers showed that groups given oxytocin rather than placebo had higher leftovers when attacks failed ( t  = 2 . To illustrate the increased efficiency of attack under oxytocin , attackers’ contribution and payment under the four conditions  were plotted in Figure 5D using a bootstrapping technique  . As illustrated in Figure 5D , oxytocin decreased contributions to attack  but increased payment  . The distribution of attacker groups under oxytocin and placebo in a space defined by the two vectors  indicates a clear separation of oxytocin and placebo treatments  . There were more non-contributing attackers when attack failed than succeeded ( Failure vs . 075 , Figure 5E ) : Oxytocin increased the number of non-contributing attackers only in failed rounds ( Oxytocin vs . 083 ) but not in successful attacks ( Oxytocin vs . Third , we examined how attacker groups collectively identified when to attack by creating a past defense parameter α ( average defender group’s investment in the last two rounds , that is  /2 on round j ) and regressed attacker group’s investments onto α  . It showed that attacker groups given oxytocin tracked their rival’s past defense and attacked especially when defenders appeared more rather than less vulnerable  . Specifically , when decisions were made simultaneously , attack regressed more strongly on α when groups received oxytocin  rather than placebo ( M ± SE: -0 . 038 ) , and under oxytocin but not placebo , the regression on α was also stronger in simultaneous rather than sequential decision-making ( Treatment × Procedure interaction , F  = 8 . Combined , results suggest that groups given oxytocin created more spoils from winning and had higher leftovers when attacks failed because they better coordinated attack at the right time and with the proper force . Indeed , when decisions were made simultaneously , the more strongly attacker groups relied on tracking parameter α , the lower their within-group variance when contributing  , and the lower within-group variance when contributing , the higher the attacker’s spoils when winning the conflict  . Indirect mediation analyses confirmed that the attacker’s higher spoils under oxytocin was mediated by  increased tracking of defender group’s past investments and  concomitant increased within-group coordination  . To be victorious in intergroup conflict , group members not only need to contribute to their group’s fighting capacity . They also need to coordinate collective action so that they attack when their rival is expected to be weak , and avoid wasting resources on attacking tough defenders . Here we found , using a dynamic intergroup contest between attackers and defenders , that those groups who tracked their defender’s history of play and coordinated their attacks of weak rather than strong defenders wasted less resources on failed attacks and enjoyed greater spoils when winning . In addition , we uncovered that oxytocin serves as a neurobiological mechanism underlying such well-timed and coordinated attacks . Specifically , we found that oxytocin enabled individuals within attacker groups to converge their individual contributions on each other more , to collectively refrain from attacking apparently strong defenders , and effectively attacking weak defenders . These findings emerged when groups lack an explicit coordination device; providing attacker groups with a sequential decision-making protocol as an explicit coordination device substituted oxytocin-induced tacit coordination . Our finding that oxytocin enables within-group coordination of contributions to out-group attacks resonates with two heretofore disconnected sets of findings—that small groups of warriors engage in social bonding and cultural rites  , and that social bonding and synchronized action can trigger the release of oxytocin  . Combined with the current results , it suggests that oxytocin might be a potential neurobiological mechanism through which social bonding and performing coordinated rituals can help groups to better coordinate their attacks . Our findings furthermore suggest that such oxytocin-mediated within-group coordination can be substituted by institutional arrangements , such as a sequential decision-making protocol . We speculate that related institutional arrangements , like appointing a leader or having open communication channels can similarly obviate the need for bonding rituals and/or oxytocin to make out-group attack well-coordinated and successful . Neither oxytocin nor the sequential decision-protocol contributed to within-group coordination in defender groups . One possibility is that in-group defense is tacitly well-coordinated because of the stronger alignment of individual interests within defender groups . After all , when defender groups survive an enemy attack , those who did not contribute to in-group defense come out relatively wealthy . But when in-group defense fails , all group members lose regardless of whether they contributed or not . As a result of this stronger common fate in defender groups , individuals contribute spontaneously and tacitly coordinate well on avoiding collective defeat . Previous studies provided evidence for the role of oxytocin in intergroup interaction: It can increase the positive view and benign approach of the in-group and has been linked to subtle forms of intergroup discrimination  . Without exception , this early evidence was limited to individual-level decision-making , and did not clearly distinguish the distinct motives for contributing to in-group efficiency and out-group hostility . It remained unknown whether and how oxytocin differentially affects attack and defense behavior during intergroup conflict . Using a dynamic attack-defense contest we revealed selective effects of oxytocin on group attacking . As such , the present study provides a new perspective on oxytocin in intergroup conflict by highlighting its functionality for strategic attack  . In doing so , we also obtained first-time evidence that in-group coordination for collective action can be tracked to evolutionary preserved neurobiological factors . Whereas we cannot exclude specific cultural effects , findings for the comparison between out-group attack and in-group defense and between sequential and simultaneous decision-making protocols resonate with findings obtained in Western culture , with both male and female participants  . This generates confidence in the generality of the behavioral effects for attack/defense and decision protocols . Furthermore , recent work on the role of oxytocin in in-group cooperation suggests similar effects for both male and female participants  . Second , it is unclear how exogenous administration of oxytocin operates at the neurophysiological level . Whereas some have questioned whether intranasal administration of oxytocin can have a direct impact on brain and behavior  , recent studies in rodents  , rhesus macaques  and in humans  collectively suggest that intranasal oxytocin elevates brain-level presence of oxytocin , and impacts behavioral decisions through neural networks involved in threat detection and reward processing  . In addition , there is some evidence that higher levels of oxytocin in saliva , blood , or urine relate to in-group affiliation and cooperation  and intergroup discrimination  . Nevertheless , new research is needed to uncover the neurophysiological pathways through which intranasal oxytocin impact human cognition and behavior , and how findings on intranasal oxytocin relate to endogenous oxytocin measured from saliva , urine , or blood samples . Intergroup competition and conflict shape the economic and cultural outlook of groups and societies , and interferes with individual life-trajectories . Success and survival in times of intergroup competition and conflict depend on the extent to which individuals make personally costly contributions and , as shown here , on their ability to coordinate their contributions when attacking out-groups , or defending against threatening out-groups . Both institutional arrangements , such as leading-by-example , and neurobiological mechanisms , such as oxytocin , facilitate behavioral coordination and the effective exploitation of out-group rivals . Indeed , as shown here , providing group members with oxytocin or an explicit coordination device enables them to waste less on failed attacks , and to earn more from their victories . The data analysis on the current study was conducted on a 6-person-group level , thus we conducted sample size estimation by G*Power to determine the number of groups sufficient to detect a reliable effect . Based on an estimated average small-to-medium effect size of oxytocin effect on social behaviors  , 80 6-person groups were needed to detect a significant effect  . Participants were randomly assigned to the intranasal administration of oxytocin or placebo in a double-blind placebo-controlled between-subjects design  . Participants then self-administered oxytocin or placebo . The attacker and defender groups under oxytocin or placebo did not differ in demographic information , mood change , and prosocial-related traits  . The procedure of oxytocin and placebo administration was similar to previous work that showed oxytocin effects on decision-making behaviors or in-group favoritism  . A single intranasal dose of 24 IU oxytocin or placebo  was self-administered by nasal spray about 35 min before the experimental task under experimenter supervision . A 24 IU dosage is the most commonly used dosage in oxytocin literature  and recently shown as having more pronounced effects  on behavioral and neural responses  . Six participants in the same IADC session were assigned to the same treatment  , so as to avoid potential influence of oxytocin to placebo between individuals . Data were aggregated to the group level , with Role  , Procedure  and Round as within-group variables , and Treatment  as a between-group factor . Analyses were performed on  contribution  ,  the number of non-contributors  ,  variance  ,  success rate for attack  ,  the attackers’ leftovers when losing a conflict ,  the attackers’ spoils when winning a contest and , finally ,  inter-group tracking . The within-group variance is calculated for each decision round , thus reveals the group coordination of contribution at each round , with lower variance indicating stronger coordination . In addition , to complement and validate these analyses , we analyzed  decision time for investment decisions  , and  within-group coordination as reflected in the Intra-class correlation coefficient . With two three-person groups , each member assumed to have risk-neutral preferences and having a discretionary resource of e = 20 MU to invest from , the IADC game has unique mixed-strategy Nash equilibrium with out-group attack  expected to average 10 . Across the 15 rounds of simultaneous decision-making under placebo , both out-group attack and in-group defense fell below the Nash-equilibrium ( t  = −11 . Oxytocin did not influence deviations from rationality ( attack: t  = −15 . We showed that oxytocin increases the number of non-contributors in attacker groups . To further reveal how oxytocin influenced the non-contributing decisions , we examined participants’ decision time by calculating the response time separately for the round that participants decided to or not to contribute . This analysis was conducted only on the attacker group because  there were very few rounds  in which defenders decided not to contribute;  oxytocin selectively influenced the number of non-contributors in attacker groups . The log 10-transformed decision time was submitted into a 2  × 2  ANOVA for the attacker group . To complement and cross-validate the results for within-group variance as an indicator of within-group coordination , we computed another related index — the intra-class correlation . ICC describes the amount of statistical interdependence within a group  , reflects how strongly individuals’ contributions in all rounds in the same group resemble each other , that is how similar group members are in their contributions to the group pool across rounds . Higher ICC values in essence mean group members are more similar to each other in the contributions made to their group pool . Fitting the results for within-group variance reported in the Main Text  , results further showed that oxytocin increased attacker groups’ ICC under simultaneous decision-making ( t  = 2 . To test whether attacker groups made their contributions based on tracking of their rival’s historical level of defense , we built a multiple linear regression of attacker groups’ average contribution on round j  as a function of average level of defense of last rounds ( calculated as  /2 , regression weight referred as α ) . To complement the analysis of attacker groups , we also examined whether and how defender groups tracked the historical level of attack in their rivals . This showed that defender groups relied more on α to track attacker groups under simultaneous  decision-making . We performed formal mediation analyses to examine through which route oxytocin increased attacker group’s spoils from winning a conflict . As can be seen , multistep mediational analysis showed that the oxytocin effect on increasing attacker group’s spoils from winning the conflict plus leftovers from losing the conflict was mediated by its effect on increasing tracking of defenders’ history so as to increase within-group coordination . "
"Phytochemical diversity is thought to result from coevolutionary cycles as specialization in herbivores imposes diversifying selection on plant chemical defenses . Plants in the speciose genus Erysimum  produce both ancestral glucosinolates and evolutionarily novel cardenolides as defenses . cheiranthoides and foliar transcriptomes of 47 additional Erysimum species to construct a phylogeny from 9868 orthologous genes , revealing several geographic clades but also high levels of gene discordance . Concentrations , inducibility , and diversity of the two defenses varied independently among species , with no evidence for trade-offs . Closely related , geographically co-occurring species shared similar cardenolide traits , but not glucosinolate traits , likely as a result of specific selective pressures acting on each defense . Ancestral and novel chemical defenses in Erysimum thus appear to provide complementary rather than redundant functions . Chemical defenses can impose barriers to consumption by herbivores , but in parallel may favor the evolution of specialized herbivores that can tolerate or disable these defenses  . Chemical diversity is likely evolving in response to a multitude of plant-herbivore interactions  , and community-level phytochemical diversity may be a key driver of niche segregation and insect community dynamics  . Most defensive metabolites originate from a small group of precursor compounds and conserved biosynthetic pathways , which are modified in a hierarchical process into diverse , species-specific end products  . As constraints are likely strongest for the early stages of these pathways , related plant species commonly share the same functional ‘classes’ of defensive chemicals  , but vary considerably in the number of compounds within each class  . Functional conservatism in defensive chemicals among related plants should facilitate host expansion and the evolution of tolerance in herbivores  , as specialized resistance mechanisms against one type of compound are more likely to be effective against structurally similar than structurally dissimilar compounds . For example , most plants in the Brassicaceae produce glucosinolates as their primary defense , which upon activation by myrosinase  enzymes upon leaf damage become potent repellents of many herbivores  . However , despite the potency of this defense system and the large diversity of glucosinolates produced by the Brassicaceae , several specialized herbivores have evolved strategies to overcome this defense , enabling them to consume most Brassicaceae and even to sequester glucosinolates for their own defense against predators  . Plants may occasionally overcome the constraints on functional diversification and gain the ability to produce new classes of defensive chemicals as a ‘second line of defense’  . In addition to producing evolutionarily ancestral glucosinolates , plants in this family have gained the ability to produce saponins in Barbarea vulgaris  , alkaloids in Cochlearia officinalis  , cucurbitacins in Iberis spp . , alliarinoside in Alliaria petiolata  , and cardenolides in the genus Erysimum  . These recently-evolved chemical defenses with modes of action distinct from glucosinolates have likely allowed the plants to escape attack from specialized , glucosinolate-adapted herbivores  . Gains of novel defenses are expected to result in a release from selective pressures imposed by specialized antagonists , and thus may represent key steps in herbivore-plant coevolution that lead to rapid phylogenetic diversification  . The production of cardenolides by species in the genus Erysimum is one of the longest- and best-studied examples of an evolutionarily recent gain of a novel chemical defense  . Cardiac glycosides are produced by plants in approximately sixty genera belonging to twelve plant families , and several cardiac glycoside-producing plants are known for their toxicity or medicinal uses  . Erysimum is a species-rich genus consisting of diploid and polyploid species with diverse morphologies , growth habits , and ecological niches  . Of the Erysimum species evaluated to date , all produce some of the novel cardenolide defenses  . Previous phylogenetic studies suggest a recent and rapid diversification of the genus , with most species divergence occurring within the last 2–3 million years  , resulting in 150 to 350 extant species  . The large uncertainty in species number reflects taxonomic challenges in this genus , which includes many species that readily hybridize , as well as cryptic species with near-identical morphology  . In most Erysimum species , cardenolides appear to have enabled an escape from at least some glucosinolate-adapted specialist herbivores . Cardenolides in Erysimum act as oviposition and feeding deterrents for different pierid butterflies  , and several glucosinolate-adapted beetles  were deterred from feeding by dietary cardenolides at levels commonly found in Erysimum  . Nonetheless , Erysimum plants are still attacked by a range of herbivores and seed predators , including some mammals and several glucosinolate-adapted aphids , true bugs , and lepidopteran larvae  . These herbivores likely rely on general detoxification mechanisms for tolerance of the novel defense , while to date there are no reports of de novo gains of specialized cardenolide resistance in Erysimum herbivores . However , the gain of the novel defense may have facilitated host shifts in at least one cardenolide-adapted herbivore: in addition to its main host Digitalis purpurea  , the seed-feeding bug Horvathiolus superbus  commonly feeds on seeds of E . The gain of a novel chemical defense makes the genus Erysimum an excellent model system to study the causes and consequences of phytochemical diversification  . While an increasing number of studies are beginning to describe taxon-wide patterns of chemical diversity in plants  , the Erysimum system is unique in combining two classes of plant metabolites with primarily defensive function – although a broader role of glucosinolates is increasingly recognized  . Furthermore , we present a new phylogeny for 48 species constructed from transcriptome sequences  , corresponding to 10–30% of species in the genus Erysimum . We combine this phylogeny with a characterization of the full diversity of glucosinolates and cardenolides in leaves to evaluate macroevolutionary patterns in the evolution of phytochemical diversity across the genus . We complemented the characterization of defensive phenotypes by quantifying glucosinolate-activating myrosinase activity , inhibition of animal Na+/K+-ATPase by leaf extracts , and defense inducibility in response to exogenous application of jasmonic acid  . By assessing co-variation of diversity , abundance and inducibility of ancestral and novel defenses , we provide evidence that these two classes of defense metabolites evolved in response to different selective pressures and appear to have specific , non-redundant functions . Three aliphatic glucosinolates – glucoiberverin  , glucoiberin  , and glucocheirolin  – have been reported as the main glucosinolates in E . By making use of the known glucosinolate biosynthetic genes from Arabidopsis  , BLASTn comparisons to the E . cheiranthoides genome , and creating phylogenetic trees to compare nucleotide coding sequences of Arabidopsis , Brassica , and E . cheiranthoides , we identified homologs of genes encoding both indole  and aliphatic  glucosinolate biosynthetic enzymes . cheiranthoides aliphatic glucosinolates glucoiberverin , glucoiberin , glucoerucin  , and glucoraphanin  were present in the genome  . cheiranthoides methylsulfonyl glucosinolates glucocheirolin , glucoerysolin  , and 3-hydroxy-4-methylsulfonylbutyl glucosinolate are not present in Arabidopsis , genes encoding their biosynthesis are unknown and could not be identified as part of this study . cheiranthoides genome contains genes with similarity to Arabidopsis ALKENYL HYDROXALKYL PRODUCING  , and 3-BUTENYL GLUCOSINOLATE 2-HYDROXYLASE   . However , the apparent absence of sinigrin  , 2-hydroxypropyl glucosinolate , progoitrin  , and 4-hydroxybutyl glucosinolate in E . CYP79A2 , which functions in the biosynthesis of benzyl glucosinolates that are present in very small amounts in seeds of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia  , has a homolog in the E . Homologs of the Arabidopsis CYP79C1 and CYP79C2 genes , which have unknown functions but are hypothesized to be involved in glucosinolate biosynthesis  , are present in the E . CYP79D2 from cassava catalyzed the formation of valine- and isoleucine-derived glucosinolates in Arabidopsis  , yet no CYP79D genes appear to be present in E . Between-gene phylogenetic comparisons revealed that homologs of known Arabidopsis myrosinases , the main foliar myrosinases TGG1 and TGG2  , root-expressed TGG4 and TGG5  , and likely pseudogenes TGG3 and TGG6  , were also present in the E . In Arabidopsis , protein products of epithiospecifier protein  , epithiospecifier modifier  , and nitrile specifier protein  direct glucosinolate breakdown into nitriles , thiocyanates , or isothiocyanates  . Although we did not measure glucosinolate breakdown in Erysimum , we did find ESP , ESM , and NSP homologs in the E . Therefore , the pathway of glucosinolate activation appears to be largely conserved between Arabidopsis and E . Assemblies of transcriptomes from 48 Erysimum species  had N50 values ranging from 574 to 2 , 160 bp  . cheiranthoides genome and the 48 transcriptomes resulted in an ASTRAL species tree with high posterior probabilities for most nodes  . To determine divergence times among the 48 species , we generated a chronogram using a concatenated ExaML species tree with branch length information  . While we relied on published estimates to constrain ages of several internal nodes , our analysis aligns well with a recent , rapid radiation of the species included in our study within the last 2–4 Mya  . The concatenated ExaML species tree and the ASTRAL species tree shared overall similar topologies , but very short internal branch lengths on both trees indicated high levels of gene tree discordance . We further dissected this discordance by assessing support of the main topology of the ASTRAL species tree  using quartet scores , which compare the main tree topology relative to its first and second alternative topology . For the ExaML tree , we assessed discordance at each node using concordance factors , which are the proportion of gene trees that agree with the main topology  . Despite extensive levels of discordance and low agreement of individual gene trees with the species trees , the main topologies of the ExaML and ASTRAL species trees revealed geographic clades that matched the generally limited native species ranges . cheiranthoides  , was part of a weakly-supported clade  , comprised of several perennial species from Greece and central Europe , including the widespread ornamental E . Species from the Iberian peninsula/Morocco , North America , and Iran formed additional , weakly-supported clades conserved between species trees  , while another clade of Turkish and Greek Erysimum species was only monophyletic in the ASTRAL species tree  . The clear geographic structure in the main topologies of the species trees was confirmed by a strong correlation between the cophenetic and geographic distance matrices for the subset of 43 species with geographic information  . Across the 48 Erysimum species , we identified 25 candidate glucosinolate compounds with distinct molecular masses and HPLC retention times  . Of these , 24 compounds could be assigned to known glucosinolate structures with high certainty . Individual Erysimum species produced between 5 and 18 glucosinolates  , and total glucosinolate concentrations were highly variable among species  . The ploidy level of species explained a significant fraction of total variation in the number of glucosinolates produced  , with hexaploid species producing the highest number of compounds  . However , neither the number of distinct glucosinolate compounds nor their total concentrations exhibited a phylogenetic signal , and related species were less similar than expected under a model of Brownian motion  . Clustering species by dissimilarities in glucosinolate profiles mostly resulted in chemotype groups corresponding to known underlying biosynthetic genes , although support for individual species clusters in the chemogram was variable  . The majority of all species produced glucoiberin as the primary glucosinolate . Of these , approximately half also produced sinigrin as a second dominant glucosinolate compound . Further chemotypic subdivision , related to the production of glucocheirolin and 2-hydroxypropyl glucosinolate , appeared to be present but only had relatively weak statistical support . scoparium  mostly lacked glucosinolates with 3-carbon side-chains , but instead accumulated glucosinolates with 4- , 5- and 6-carbon side-chains . pulchellum  , and accession ER2 predominantly produced glucoerypestrin  , a glucosinolate that is exclusively found within Erysimum  . Similar to the lack of phylogenetic signal for compound numbers and concentrations , dissimilarity in glucosinolate profiles was unrelated to phylogenetic relatedness  , and neither of the first two principal coordinates of the glucosinolate dissimilarity matrix showed a significant phylogenetic signal  . The lack of phylogenetic signal was visualized by optimizing vertical matching of tips between the ExaML species tree and the glucosinolate chemogram  . For five species pairs , the closest phylogenetic neighbor was also the most chemically similar species , but in general , close relatives more often belonged to chemically distant species clusters . Finally , reconstruction of the ancestral states for total glucosinolate content and the first principal coordinate of the glucosinolate dissimilarity matrix suggests that both traits likely originated at intermediate levels and repeatedly evolved towards opposite extremes in closely related species  . As glucosinolates require activation by myrosinase enzymes upon tissue damage by herbivores , myrosinase activity in leaf tissue determines the rate at which toxins are released . We quantified myrosinase activity of Erysimum leaf extracts and found it to be highly variable among species  . After grouping species into nine chemotypes defined by chemical dissimilarity and the production of characteristic glucosinolate compounds  , we found that myrosinase activity significantly differed among these chemotypes  . Chemotypes that predominantly accumulated methylsulfonyl glucosinolates , hydroxy glucosinolates , or indole glucosinolates had low to negligible activity against the assayed glucosinolate sinigrin . It is important to note that sinigrin is an alkenyl glucosinolate and Erysimum myrosinases targeting other , structurally dissimilar glucosinolates may not effectively cleave sinigrin . After chemotype differences were accounted for , myrosinase activity was marginally related to total glucosinolate concentrations  . Similar to other glucosinolate traits , uncorrected myrosinase activity exhibited no phylogenetic signal  . collinum  , which only contained trace amounts of cardenolides in leaves , all Erysimum species contained diverse mixtures of cardenolide compounds and accumulated considerable amounts of cardenolides  . The ploidy level of species again explained a significant fraction of the total variation in the number of cardenolides  , with hexaploid species producing the highest average number of compounds  . To obtain an estimate of biological activity and evaluate quantification from total MS ion counts , we used an established assay that quantifies cardenolide concentrations from specific inhibition of animal Na+/K+-ATPase by crude Erysimum leaf extracts . We found generally strong enzymatic inhibition , with leaves of Erysimum species on average containing an equivalent of 5 . Overall , quantification of cardenolide concentrations by Na+/K+-ATPase inhibition was highly correlated with the total MS ion count  . Both the total numbers of compounds and the total abundances exhibited a strong phylogenetic signal  , indicating that closely related species shared similar cardenolide traits . Cardenolide diversity was considerably higher than that of glucosinolates , with a total of 97 distinguishable candidate cardenolide compounds identified across the 48 Erysimum species  . Of these , 46 compounds had distinct molecular masses and mass fragments , while the remaining compounds likely were isomers , sharing a molecular mass with other compounds but having distinct HPLC retention times . A likely major source of isomeric cardenolide compounds was thus the incorporation of different deoxy hexoses of equivalent mass , such as rhamnose , fucose , or gulomethylose . Out of the nine detected genins , six had previously been described from Erysimum species  . We therefore assume that all three novel structures are natural variants of cardenolides produced by Erysimum plants , even though we currently lack final structural elucidation . Clustering of species by dissimilarities in cardenolide profiles revealed fewer obvious species clusters in the chemogram than for glucosinolates , and particularly higher-level species clusters had only weak statistical support  . A second major cluster was visually apparent , yet not statistically significant , and separated groups of species that did or did not produce glycosides of the newly discovered putative formyl-nigrescigenin  . Similarity in cardenolide profiles among species was strongly correlated with phylogenetic relatedness  , and the first two principal coordinates of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix exhibited strong phylogenetic signals  . Closely related species were therefore not only more similar in their total cardenolide concentrations , but also had more similar cardenolide profiles than expected by chance . These results were again visualized by optimizing vertical matching of tips between the ExaML species tree and the cardenolide chemogram  . For twelve species pairs  , the closest phylogenetic neighbor was also the most chemically similar species , and phylogenetically related species more commonly belonged to chemically similar species clusters , indicated by a significantly lower total length of tip links compared to what was observed for glucosinolates  . Reconstruction of the ancestral states for total cardenolide content suggests that trait values likely originated at low total concentrations , and increased to intermediate levels in the North American and Spanish/Moroccan clades , and independently to very high levels in the species pair of E . For the first principal coordinate of cardenolide dissimilarity , trait values originated at intermediate values , but sub-clades more commonly evolved towards shared chemical profiles than was the case for glucosinolates  . Similarity in glucosinolate and cardenolide chemical profiles of the 48 species was not correlated  , and neither the number of compounds  nor their total concentrations  were correlated between compound classes . Tip-specific estimates of speciation rates were not correlated with the number of glucosinolate compounds produced by a species , regardless of speciation rate metric or statistical method used  . In contrast , we found a significantly positive correlation between the node density  measure and the number of cardenolide compounds , while for the alternate equal split  measure the correlation was marginally significant for the simulation-based method only  . Given the correlation coefficients of the simulation-based method , variation in the number of cardenolide compounds thus explained 17–28% of the total variation in speciation rate . Variation in total glucosinolate or cardenolide concentrations was not correlated with speciation rates  . Foliar application of JA was expected to stimulate accumulation of defensive compounds in plant leaves and among the 30 tested species , glucosinolate levels responded positively to JA , with the majority of species increasing their foliar glucosinolate concentration  . However , the glucosinolate inducibility of a species was independent of constitutive glucosinolate levels  . By contrast , the majority of species exhibited lower cardenolide levels in response to JA , resulting in lack of inducibility across species  . crepidifolium  heavily influenced inducibility patterns , as it not only had three times higher constitutive concentrations of cardenolides than any other Erysimum species , but also markedly increased both glucosinolate and cardenolide concentrations in response to JA treatment  . When this outlier species was removed , inducibility  of foliar cardenolides was not correlated with constitutive cardenolide levels  , and inducibilities of glucosinolates and cardenolides were likewise not correlated with each other  . The genus Erysimum poses considerable phylogenetic challenges , with its evolutionary recent radiation resulting in a large number of hybridizing species and high prevalence of polyploidization  . Both previous partial phylogenies of the genus , constructed from internal transcribed spacer  or chloroplast sequences , consequently struggled to resolve polytomies among species  . However , while our species tree provided good posterior probabilities for all nodes , it also revealed very high levels of gene discordance . Several internal nodes of our species tree topology were supported by less than 1% of all gene trees , and only the most recent branching events were supported by more than 10% of gene trees . High levels of discordance , likely driven by introgression and incomplete lineage sorting , are common during ongoing species radiations , with many recent plant examples reporting similar findings  . Specifically , if these are allopolyploid rather than autopolyploid species , discordance could be introduced by our methodological approach for gene selection , which randomly retained only a single copy for each identified orthologous gene with multiple copies . This same problem could also have inflated the estimation of hybridization by our HyDe analysis , although a high rate of gene flow is likely , at least among geographically close species  . More fundamentally , the high levels of gene discordance also highlight the limitations of simple bifurcating species trees to represent the significantly more complicated network of splits and reticulate evolutionary events that is likely the true history of the genus Erysimum  . However , while we have been unsuccessful in reconstructing the exact evolutionary history of the genus , we nevertheless believe our species tree captures key aspects of its phylogenetic relationships , particularly in respect to closely related species and geographic clades . In our species tree , the three annual species , E . wilczekianum grouped together as a well-supported monophyletic clade sister to all other Erysimum species . These species co-occur geographically with several perennial Erysimum species , but they are largely isolated by non-overlapping flowering times . Further separate clades were present for species from Iran , North America , and a combined clade of species from Spain , Morocco , and the Canary Islands , while the remaining species grouped into four central and eastern European clades . Within the Spanish clade , species from southeastern Spain exhibited closer relatedness to Moroccan species than to species from northeastern or northwestern Spain , loosely matching more fine-scale evaluations of species relatedness in this region  . Therefore , even though none of these clades were supported by high gene concordance factors , the main topology of our species tree captured an apparently meaningful pattern of closely related species commonly occurring in close geographic proximity . Clustering of species by dissimilarities in glucosinolate profiles revealed distinct groups of chemically similar species , largely corresponding to nine chemotypes determined by the predicted function of few major-effect glucosinolate genes . However , we found no phylogenetic signal for chemical similarity , compound number , or total concentrations of glucosinolates  . Closely related species thus appear to be less likely to share similar glucosinolate chemotypes . reported similarly low values for Blomberg’s K for most glucosinolate traits , suggesting that this may be a general pattern in glucosinolate diversity . In contrast , clustering of species by dissimilarities in cardenolide profiles revealed fewer distinct groups of chemically similar species , suggesting that the considerably more complex cardenolide chemotypes may be controlled by many minor-effect genes . However , we found strong phylogenetic signals for chemical similarity , compound numbers , and total concentrations of cardenolides  . Closely related species were therefore more likely to share similar cardenolide chemotypes . Given the high levels of gene discordance in our phylogeny , it seems probable that at least the glucosinolate results may have been affected by hemiplasy , i . , a phenomenon where a trait is determined by genes whose topologies does not match the species tree  . However , even though trait evolution within Erysimum almost certainly has been significantly more complex than can be represented by a simple bifurcating species tree  , we believe our results remain robust in three key points . First , geographically close Erysimum species tend to be more closely related , likely because geographic proximity may facilitate gene flow . Second , geographically close , related species share similar cardenolide but not glucosinolate phenotypes . Third , these distinct patterns in chemical classes indicate distinct evolutionary mechanisms for glucosinolate and cardenolide defenses , with a small number of major-effect glucosinolate genes evolving independently of a putatively larger set of minor-effect cardenolide genes . Despite vast morphological differences among sampled Erysimum species , the diversity in glucosinolate profiles across species was relatively limited , with a total of 25 different glucosinolate compounds detected . Even though this diversity may be further amplified by enzymes that direct glucosinolates into different toxic products upon activation  , intraspecific glucosinolate diversity of Arabidopsis alone is significantly higher , with more than 30 compounds reported across a range of accessions  . In contrast , an evaluation of 30 Streptanthus species revealed a similarly low total number of 35 glucosinolate compounds  . Additional broadly comparative studies of glucosinolate diversity in other Brassicaceae species are needed to provide a reliable ‘baseline’ for glucosinolate diversity . Importantly , we intentionally ignored intraspecific chemical diversity as we lacked genetically diverse seed material for most species . cheiranthoides accessions suggests that there is little to no variation in glucosinolate profiles within this one species , while there is considerable variation in cardenolide profiles  . The majority of Erysimum species produced glucoiberin as their main glucosinolate . Aliphatic glucosinolates such as glucoiberin are derived from methionine in a process that involves elongation and modification of a variable side-chain  , and in this context the 3-carbon glucosinolate glucoiberin is one of the least biosynthetically complex glucosinolates . However , the potential to produce additional aliphatic glucosinolates with longer side chains clearly exists in the genus , as 4- , 5- , and 6-carbon glucosinolates with more complex modifications were scattered across the phylogeny . A few species produced glucosinolates that are not found in Arabidopsis , including a sub-class of aliphatic glucosinolates , the methylsulfonyl glucosinolates . The homolog of GS-OH , which in Arabidopsis forms 2-hydroxy-but-3-enyl glucosinolate from 3-butenyl glucosinolate , does not have a clear function in E . cheiranthoides may code for the unknown enzyme that hydroxylates 4-methylsulfonylbutyl glucosinolate to form 3-hydroxy-4-methylsulfonylbutyl glucosinolate  . Methylsulfonyl glucosinolates are found in several Brassicaceae genera  , and glucocheirolin , the most abundant methylsulfonyl glucosinolate in Erysimum species , is only a weak egg-laying stimulant for the cabbage white butterfly  , compared to other glucosinolates  . Methylsulfonyl glucosinolates may thus represent a plant response to specialist herbivores that use plant defenses as host-finding cues . collinum  from Turkey and Iran , respectively , accumulated glucoerypestrin as their main glucosinolate compound . and to date has been found exclusively in plants of the genus Erysimum  . Modification of the amino acid side chain during methionine-derived aliphatic glucosinolate biosynthesis as a pathway to glucoerypestrin is less likely , due to the lower specific incorporation of 14C-labeled methionine compared to 14C-labeled dicarboxylic acids into this compound  . In any case , the gain of glucoerypestrin represents yet another evolutionary novelty in the Erysimum genus , but its relative toxicity and the adaptive benefits of its production have yet to be elucidated . Myrosinase activity levels differed among glucosinolate chemotypes , and activity was positively correlated with glucosinolate abundance in plants when controlling for glucosinolate chemotype . Erysimum species that predominantly produced indole glucosinolates or 4-methylsulfinyl glucosinolates had negligible myrosinase activity against the assayed aliphatic glucosinolate sinigrin . Indole glucosinolates can be activated by PEN2 – a thioglucosidase that is more specific for indole glucosinolates  – or even break down in the absence of plant-derived myrosinase  . The negligible activity in these species could therefore indicate the existence of selective pressures to tailor myrosinase expression to the type and concentrations of glucosinolates that are produced . Mirroring results for glucosinolate defenses , myrosinase activity was not more similar among related species , suggesting that the two components of glucosinolate defense evolve in concert . We detected considerable amounts of the evolutionarily novel cardenolide defense in 47 out of 48 Erysimum species or accessions . Among the 95 likely cardenolide compounds detected , at least 22 had not been described previously in Erysimum . Structural variation in cardenolides affects the relative inhibition of Na+/K+-ATPase  and physiochemical properties such as lipophilicity , which play an important role in uptake and metabolism of plant metabolites by insects  . Individual Erysimum species produced between 15 and 50 different cardenolide compounds , and the comparison of quantification by total mass ion counts vs . While both methods of quantification are only approximate , this correlation at least provides no obvious indication of vast differences in Na+/K+-ATPase inhibitory activity among Erysimum cardenolides . Here , we propose a pathway for the modification of digitoxigenin , commonly assumed to be the least biosynthetically complex cardenolide  , into the eight structurally more complex genins found within Erysimum  . In the Brassicaceae genus Barbarea , plants produce saponin glycosides as an evolutionary novel defense , and a significant proportion of glycoside diversity in this system has been linked to the action of a small set of UDP glycosyltransferases  . Similarly , through the joint action of genin-modifying enzymes and glycosyltransferases , a relatively small set of enzymes and corresponding genes could generate the vast cardenolide diversity found in the Erysimum genus . The identification and manipulation of these genes in different Erysimum species will make it possible to test the adaptive benefits of this structural diversity . On average , leaves of Erysimum species contained cardenolides equivalent to 6 µg ouabain per mg dry leaf weight  , placing them slightly above most species of the well-studied cardenolide-producing genus Asclepias  . collinum  , which clustered phylogenetically with two other Middle Eastern species producing average concentrations of these compounds  , likely represents a secondary loss of this trait in the course of evolution . This species also accumulated an evolutionary novel glucosinolate , glucoerypestrin  , which may have resulted in a shift in selective pressures that led to the loss of potentially costly cardenolide production . crepidifolium  had cardenolide concentrations more than three times higher than any other tested Erysimum species  . This is consistent with the highly toxic nature of this species , which has the German vernacular name ‘Gänsesterbe’  and has been associated with mortality in geese that consume the plant . Whereas most species did not induce cardenolide accumulation in response to JA , E . Plants use conserved transcriptional networks to continuously integrate signals from their environment and optimize allocation of resources to growth and defense  . Given this relative flexibility in signaling networks , it is perhaps not surprising that the evolutionary novel cardenolides have been integrated into the defense signaling of Erysimum species to variable degrees . The study of the speciose genus Erysimum , which has two co-expressed chemical defense classes , revealed largely independent evolution of the ancestral and the novel defense . With no evidence for trade-offs between the structurally and biosynthetically unrelated defenses , the diversity , abundance , and inducibility of each class of defenses appears to be evolving independently in response to the unique selective environment of each individual species . The evolutionarily recent gain of novel cardenolides has resulted in a system in which no known specific adaptations to cardenolides have yet evolved de novo in insect herbivores , although general adaptations to toxic food may still allow herbivores to consume the plants . The genus Erysimum is distributed across the northern hemisphere , with the center of diversity stretching from the Mediterranean Basin into Central Asia , and a smaller number of species centered in western North America  . Seeds of Erysimum species spanning a range of distributions in Europe and Western North America were collected in their native habitats or obtained from botanical gardens and commercial seed suppliers  . Ploidy levels of species were inferred from literature reports to test for the effect of ploidy on chemical diversity  . Elbtalaue seeds were submitted to the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center  under accession number CS29250 and to the National Plant Germplasm System  under accession number PI 691911 . For transcriptome sequencing and metabolomic analyses of Erysimum species , subsets of the full species pool were grown in three separate experiments in 2016 and 2017 . cheiranthoides plant using Wizard Genomic DNA Purification Kit  . cheiranthoides and Arabidopsis thaliana  , the genome sequences were aligned using NUCmer , from MUMmer v3 . Glucosinolate and myrosinase genes in E . cheiranthoides were annotated based on homology to known Arabidopsis pathway genes in the Plant Metabolic Network database   , as well as genes from Brassica rapa  , Raphanus sativus  , and Manihot esculenta  . Coding sequences for the Arabidopsis and Brassica glucosinolate and myrosinase genes were obtained from GenBank  , The Arabidopsis Information Resource  , and the Brassica Database  . cheiranthoides , Arabidopsis , and Brassica were used to construct maximum likelihood phylogenetic trees with 1000 bootstraps using MEGA version 7  . Nucleotide sequences were aligned using MUSCLE , and the best model for each tree was selected based on neighbor-joining trees using the maximum likelihood method with gaps and missing data treated as a partial deletion with a 95% site coverage cut-off . To generate the large number of gene sequences required for a well-resolved phylogeny , we sequenced the foliar transcriptomes of 48 Erysimum species or accessions , including a first-generation inbred E . Five species were sequenced from plants in experiment 2016 , 18 species from experiment 2017–1 , and 25 species from experiment 2017–2  . To average environmental and individual effects on RNA expression , we pooled leaf material from 2 to 5 individual plants from one or two time points  to create a single pooled RNA sample per species  . For large-leaved species , we collected approximately 50 mg of fresh plant material from each harvested plant using a heat-sterilized hole punch  . For sample pooling , we combined leaf material of individual plants belonging to the same species in a mortar under liquid nitrogen and ground all material to a fine powder . We extracted RNA from pooled leaf material using the RNeasy Plant Mini Kit  , including a step for on-column DNase digestion , and following the manufacturer’s instructions . Sequences for each of the 48 Erysimum species and Arabidopsis   were annotated using protein sequences of the orthologs using blastp v2 . After annotation , single copy genes and one copy of repetitive genes were kept if they were present in more than 39  species . Finally , species tree inference was performed with these 9868 gene trees as input , using ASTRAL-III v5 . In this species tree we observed very short internal branch lengths , which generally indicates high levels of gene tree discordance . We therefore additionally ran ASTRAL-III with the full annotation option  for information on quartet support , total number of quartet trees in gene trees , and local posterior probabilities for the main topology and first and second alternative topologies . Finally , we ran ExaML  to generate a concatenated phylogeny with parameters: -a -B 100 m GAMMA -s , and then evaluated the phylogeny with ExaML using -f E -m GAMMA and calculated gene concordance factors for each branch of the species tree using IQ-Tree v2  . Using the ExaML concatenated phylogeny with branch length information , we dated the Erysimum radiation using treePL v1 . First , we constrained the node of the divergence between Erysimum species and Arabidopsis using a range of 11–22 Mya , determined by Cardinal-McTeague et al . All cardenolides share a highly conserved structure consisting of a steroid core  linked to a five-membered lactone ring , which as a unit  mediates the specific binding of cardenolides to Na+/K+- ATPase  . While cardenolide genins are sufficient to inhibit Na+/K+- ATPase function , genins are commonly glycosylated or modified by hydroxylation on the steroid moiety to change the physiochemical properties and binding affinity of compounds  . We obtained commercial standards for the abundant Erysimum cardenolides erysimoside and helveticoside  , allowing us to identify these compounds through comparison of retention times and mass fragmentation patterns . Additional cardenolide compounds were tentatively identified from characteristic LC-MS fragmentation patterns . Their results highlight the propensity of cardenolides to fragment at glycosidic bonds , with genin masses in particular being a prominent feature of cardenolide mass spectra . Characteristic fragmentation allowed us to identify candidate cardenolide compounds in a genin-guided approach , where the presence of characteristic genin fragments in a chromatographic peak indicated the likely presence of a cardenolide molecule . We screened our data for the presence of glycosides of strophanthidin , digitoxigenin , and cannogenol , and additional genins known to occur in Erysimum species  . We screened LC-MS data from two experiments  to generate a list of cardenolide compounds . Cardenolide data of experiment Phylo17-1 could not be used due to technical problems with the LC-MS analysis in positive mode . For glucosinolate and cardenolide data separately , we averaged raw ion counts for each compound across experiments to yield a single chemical profile per compound class and species . We thereby intentionally ignored potential intraspecific variation in chemical diversity , as a lack of multiple seed origins or accessions for most species did not allow us to appropriately quantify this dimension of complexity . Log-transformed ion counts were modelled treating experiment as a fixed effect , and a species-by-compound identifier as the main random effect . Nested within the main random effect , we fitted a species-by-compound-by-experiment identifier as a second random effect to account for the difference of pooled or individual samples among experiments . The fixed effect of this model thus captures the overall differences in compound ion counts between experiments , while the main random effect captures the average deviation from an overall compound mean for each compound in each species . We extracted the overall compound mean and the main random effects from these models , providing us with average ion counts for each compound in each species on the log-scale . Cardenolide quantification from LC-MS mass signal intensity does not capture such differences in biological activity , and furthermore may be challenging due to compound-specific response factors and narrow ranges of signal linearity . To evaluate whether total ion counts are an appropriate and biologically relevant measure for between-species comparisons of defense levels , we therefore quantified cardenolide concentrations by a separate method  . For the subset of plants in the 2016 experiment , we measured the biological activity of leaf extracts on the Na+/K+-ATPase from the cerebral cortex of pigs  using an in vitro assay introduced by Klauck and Luckner  and adapted by Petschenka et al . This colorimetric assay measures Na+/K+-ATPase activity from phosphate released during ATP consumption , and can be used to quantify relative enzymatic inhibition by cardenolide-containing plant extracts . Briefly , we tested the inhibitory effect of each plant extract at four concentrations to estimate the sigmoid enzyme inhibition function from which we could determine the cardenolide content of the extract relative to a standard curve for ouabain  . To quantify potential non-specific enzymatic inhibition that could occur at high concentrations of plant extracts , we also included control extracts from Sinapis arvensis leaves  in these assays . For the subset of plants in experiment 2017–2 , we extracted the total amounts of soluble myrosinases from leaf tissue and quantified their activity as an important component of the glucosinolate defense system of these species . To quantify chemical similarity among species , we performed separate cluster analyses on the glucosinolate and cardenolide profile data averaged across the three experiments . For each species , the log-transformed average ion counts of all compounds were converted to proportions  . We constructed chemical dendrograms  of glucosinolate and cardenolide profile similarities by fitting hierarchical clustering models  and estimated support for individual species clusters from 10 , 000 permutations . To test whether similarity in glucosinolate and cardenolide profiles was correlated with each other and with phylogenetic relatedness , we performed Mantel tests [function mantel . 0 ,  with 1000 permutations to compare Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices or the cophenetic distance matrix extracted for the ultrametric ExaML species tree . We visualized a potential correlation between the ExaML species tree and each chemogram by optimizing vertical matching of tree tips using function cophylo in the R package phytools v0 . In addition , we performed principal coordinate analyses  on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices of glucosinolate and cardenolide data using function pcoa in R package ape v5 . We evaluated a prevalence of phylogenetic signal in chemical defense traits , myrosinase activity , and principal coordinates for both chemical dissimilarity matrices using Blomberg’s K  . K is close to zero for traits lacking phylogenetic signal; it approaches one if trait similarity among related species matches a Brownian motion model of evolution , and it can be >1 if similarity is even higher than expected under a Brownian motion model . We estimated K for all traits using function phylosig in the phytools package and the ultrametric ExaML species tree . Additionally , we reconstructed the ancestral states for total glucosinolate and cardenolide content , and for the first principal coordinates of both chemical dissimilarity matrices using maximum-likelihood function fastAnc in the phytools package , which models the evolution of continuous traits using Brownian motion . We tested for correlations among plant traits using phylogenetic generalized least squares  with a Brownian correlation structure inferred from the ultrametric ExaML species tree . As variation in traits can impact the propensity for evolutionary diversification , we also tested for correlations between trait variation across the tips of the ExaML phylogeny and tip-specific estimates of speciation rates   . We tested for significant correlations between speciation rate measures and chemical traits using standard PGLS models , as well as a more robust simulation-based method  , thereby performing four tests for each of four chemical plant traits . To estimate the likelihood of false positives in this approach , we performed all four tests on 1000 sets of randomly generated plant traits and quantified the number of traits with more than one significant test . Finally , we evaluated the evidence for geographic signal in phylogenetic relatedness by performing a Mantel test to compare the cophenetic distance matrix to the pairwise geographic distances for all species with known collection locations . "
"We also profiled transcriptome abundance in naturally aneuploid isolates compared to isogenic euploid controls and found that 10–30% of amplified genes , depending on the strain and affected chromosome , show lower-than-expected expression compared to gene copy number . , we argued that this gene group is enriched for genes subject to one or more modes of dosage compensation , where mRNA abundance is decreased in response to higher dosage of that gene . cerevisiae that we studied and that the group of genes enriched for those subject to dosage compensation show unique evolutionary signatures . cerevisiae , and that 10–30% of amplified genes , depending on the strain and affected chromosome , show lower-than-expected expression in naturally aneuploid isolates compared to isogenic euploid controls . We argued that this group is enriched for genes whose expression is regulated by one or more modes of gene-dosage compensation , which we validated at several genes . Importantly , the group of genes we identified shows non-random associations , including enrichment for specific functional groups , enrichment for genes that are toxic when over-expressed in the lab strain , and a higher rate of gene copy-number variation  despite higher constraint on expression variation in wild isolates of yeast . A main point of our paper was that dosage compensation at select genes has an important evolutionary effect , by buffering expression against CNV in wild strains . take issue with the conclusions in our manuscript , arguing that a ) wild strains of yeast are not tolerant of aneuploidy and our results emerge as an artifact of culturing wild strains in the lab , and b ) errors in our statistical analysis explain the reduced expression of amplified genes and instead there are no genes subject to dosage-responsive control . argue that the wild strains analyzed in our study are not tolerant of aneuploidy , since the chromosome-wide average of the relative Illumina read depth measured for each amplified gene is not precisely 1 . Due to technical biases in Illumina sequencing , it is highly unlikely that the mean value of relative gene copy number across whole chromosomes is a precise integer . indicate the expected spread in relative read depth across the amplified chromosomes – similar to the spread in read counts of the euploid chromosomes – with mean values very close to the relative DNA abundance we reported . Furthermore , some genes on the chromosomes are not amplified  , which can also slightly reduce the mean value away from a precise integer . that for the strains we analyzed in our original paper , the vast majority of cells in each culture were aneuploid . It is true that some chromosome amplifications , namely in sake strains , are variable  across replicates , and thus these chromosomes  were not considered as part of this work . The karyotype of these sake strains may indeed be somewhat ‘unstable’ at the culture level; however , the random appearance of extra chromosomes across replicates again suggests a low fitness cost to aneuploidy and an observable rate of mitotic errors  . Instead , our data show that the wild strains we studied are tolerant of aneuploidy , and that it is the laboratory W303 strain that is highly aberrant . 1 ) By conservative estimation , 30% of the strains we sequenced are aneuploid – these strains were identified in an unbiased sequencing survey in which aneuploidy was not generated or selected for . 2 ) The aneuploid strains we studied show little growth reduction compared to isogenic euploid strains , both for naturally aneuploid isolates and strains for which we artificially generated aneuploidy  . In contrast , the tetrasomic W303_Chr12-4n strain – carrying a chromosome reported to be one of the least toxic in this background  – has a 70% reduction in growth rate compared to its isogenic control  . 3 ) While extra chromosomes can be lost stochastically , it generally took >200 generations of growth to detect significant chromosome loss in the wild-strain cultures we analyzed . The extreme fitness defect incurred by the aneuploid W303 strain explains the rapid emergence of cells that lose the extra chromosome , since the euploid W303 grows nearly twice as fast and rapidly takes over the culture . 4 ) Aneuploid W303 cells show aberrant gene expression and strong activation of the environmental stress response  , regardless of the chromosome amplified  . But as we published , naturally aneuploid strains simply do not activate the ESR  , indicating that they are not experiencing significant stress compared to their euploid controls . It is certainly possible that some wild strains will not tolerate aneuploidy , and likely that some chromosome amplifications are more problematic than others , regardless of strain background . The prevalence of aneuploidy in our original study is consistent with other reports of aneuploidy in wild isolates  and certainly industrial strains  . showed that aneuploidy was relatively frequent in a wild strain , but not a laboratory strain , subjected to the same selection conditions  . To examine expression effects in naturally aneuploid strains , we measured mRNA and DNA abundance in aneuploid isolates compared to closely related or isogenic euploid controls . We first surveyed expression in six naturally aneuploid strains compared to paired euploid relatives , in biological duplicate . Pooling data across the strains identified 838 out of 2 , 204 amplified genes  whose relative mRNA abundance was reproducibly lower than the relative DNA abundance measured in the strain pairs  . The reduced expression could be because of a response to the aneuploidy , a response to the increased gene copy number , or due to heritable polymorphisms that reduce expression – we emphasize the presentation in Hose et al . that these genes should not be taken as dosage compensated from this analysis alone . To distinguish the above possibilities , we performed two analyses on isogenic strain pairs , in which the only difference between strains was chromosome copy number . First , we measured mRNA abundance  for three aneuploid strains and their isogenic euploids and compared relative mRNA abundance to relative DNA abundance measured in those strain pairs  . This identified 163 of 882 genes  with lower-than-expected expression in aneuploid cells  . Second , we generated isogenic strain panels for two other naturally aneuploid strains , in which diploid cells carried two , three , or four copies of the amplified chromosome . Using a mixture-of-linear regressions  model , we defined genes whose relative mRNA abundance did not increase proportionately to relative DNA abundance measured in the aneuploid versus isogenic euploid strains . The MLR analysis identified 172 genes in this class out of 773 genes  . We then combined the gene groups from the two analyses of isogenic strain sets for downstream analysis . Because the paired strain analysis was less stringent  , we required that genes be identified in both Figure 4B  and Figure 4A  . This left 73 genes whose expression was lower-than-expected in four biological measurements from isogenic strain pairs plus the 172 genes identified by the more sensitive MLR analysis from the isogenic strain panels , for a combined total of 245 genes out of 1655  total genes assessed in the two analyses of isogenic strains . , we cited that 10–30% of genes , depending on strain and chromosome , met our criteria . There was an error in the abstract of the published article that we request to be changed , where '>30%' should have read 'up to 30%' of genes may be subjected to dosage compensation . The center  of log2 distributions for mRNA or DNA ratios measured across all unamplified genes in isogenic aneuploid-euploid strain comparisons are shown . Normalized data were then compared across strain pairs to provide a log2 ratio of relative mRNA or DNA abundance for each gene . 003Mean log2 mRNA ratios  Mean log2 mRNA ratios  Mean log2 DNA ratios  1 SD used for thresholdT73_Chr8-4n vs -2n rep10 . *We attempted spike-in normalization for haploid YPS163-disomic  and -monosomic  strains but were unable to accurately count cells due to differences in flocculation across aneuploid-euploid strains . , RPKM normalization produced data that agreed as well or better across replicates compared to spike-in normalization and in the case of YJM428_Chr16-4n agreed better with qPCR measurements of Chr16 abundance in the culture  . The SD of DNA ratios on the affected chromosome that were subtracted from gene-level measurements of relative DNA abundance  are shown for reference where relevant . They further propose that expression differences in aneuploid strains fit a normal distribution across the transcriptome , which they take as a null model for no dosage compensation . First , as published in our original manuscript , several normalization methods were compared to ensure accuracy , including RPKM , RPKM excluding the amplified chromosomes , and the most accurate method of normalizing based on the number of collected cells . For isogenic strain pairs shown in Hose et al . Figure 4B , we generated biological duplicate RNA-seq replicates and single DNA-seq samples , where DNA and one RNA sample were taken from the same culture , for both the aneuploid and euploid strains . For each replicate , we measured the relative mRNA abundance for each gene in the aneuploid versus euploid strain , as well as the relative DNA abundance for that gene in the aneuploid versus euploid strain . We then defined a gene-specific threshold to identify genes with lower-than-expected mRNA abundance: we took the relative DNA abundance measured for a given gene , minus one SD of the chromosome-wide mean of relative DNA abundances  . We then identified genes whose relative mRNA abundance in the aneuploid versus euploid strain was lower than the gene-specific cutoff in both biological mRNA replicates . Importantly , to meet our criteria for downstream analysis , a gene must have also met these criteria in the comparable analysis of non-isogenic strain pairs  . However , we did not use abundance values , but rather relative abundance across isogenic strains , and thus the SD of RPKM values across all transcripts is not relevant to our analysis . What is relevant is the SD of replicate mRNA abundance ratios compared to the SD of the relative DNA values used to define the threshold applied to replicates . 3 , for amplified genes and for unamplified genes . This was the same range as the SDs of the relative DNA abundance ratios  used to define the gene-specific thresholds  , which were applied to four biological measurements of relative mRNA abundance . attempt to estimate the false discovery rate of our method on permuted data; while their methods are not entirely clear , they identify hundreds more genes on randomized data than we did on real data , and the SD values cited in their Table 2 are not close to our values , suggesting critical differences in methods . In a second analysis , we generated two sets of isogenic strain panels in which diploid cells carried two , three , or four copies of a chromosome . Triplicate mRNA and duplicate DNA measurements were generated for each strain in each panel , and the data were fit using a sensitive mixture of linear regressions  model , which did not use the same cutoff approach to call genes . In fitting the MLR model , we did not average the replicates to reduce data to three points in a scatterplot per gene – such an approach could be adversely affected by outliers . For simplicity , we classified genes based on their maximum posterior probability , and no cutoff on the magnitude of the expression effect was used – indeed , we showed in the paper that many genes have only partially reduced expression  . The 142 genes called Class 3A in the YPS1009 panel correspond to 17% FDR; the 30 genes called Class 3A in the NCYC110 panel correspond to 5% FDR by this method . The likelihood ratio approach does not offer a direct classification of non-null genes , in contrast to the favored MLR approach used in Hose et al . In summary , the two methods we used to identify genes expressed lower-than-expected in isogenic aneuploid versus euploid strains identified 245 genes for downstream analysis . This amounts to 10 to 30% of genes depending on the strain and affected chromosome , or 15% of all genes assessed , at an FDR between 5 and 17% . perform their own analysis to identify potentially dosage compensated genes , focusing on global averages , correlations , and distributions across the chromosomes . They argue that the distribution of expression effects across each aneuploid strain versus its isogenic euploid fits a normal distribution , in which there is a similar number of genes with higher expression on the affected chromosome as genes with lower expression . The authors cite that this is the null expectation in the absence of any genes subject to dosage compensation . While such a global approach would capture chromosome-wide dosage compensation as seen in sex chromosomes , we argue that this approach will miss many individual genes potentially subject to dosage control . , there are genes on and off the amplified chromosome that have higher expression in the aneuploid strains . The MLR analysis reported nearly the same number of amplified genes with higher expression as with reduced expression  . We regret the magenta coloring to highlight amplified genes in Figure 4 , which was added during the revisions to make a separate point and thus the genes were not selected with the same criteria as genes with lower expression . , the two tails of the distribution are enriched for different functional groups: whereas amplified genes with lower-than-expected expression are enriched for particular functional groups  and for genes that are toxic when over-expressed in the lab strain , the set of amplified genes with higher-than-expected expression is enriched for genes encoding membrane and cell-surface proteins . As we cited , the higher-than-expected expression of amplified genes  is likely an indirect response to the known influence that ploidy has on cell size/shape and flocculence  . Therefore , we do not believe that the distribution across all genes can be used to select individual genes subject to dosage compensation , nor did we focus on global averages or correlations . Instead , we identified individual genes that have the lower-than-expected expression phenotype and analyzed the pooled set to explore enriched features , as described below . The set of genes with lower-than-expected expression in aneuploid strains is strongly enriched for certain functional groups , including genes known to feedback on their own expression  , genes that are toxic when over-expressed , and genes that are under higher expression constraint but display elevated copy number variation  in wild populations  . However , it is true that a subset of the genes we identified could be responding transcriptionally to the particular chromosome amplified , rather than the gene’s copy number per se . We attempted to minimize these effects in our original downstream analysis by pooling amplified genes from five aneuploid strains and across three amplified chromosomes . Here , we provide an additional series of controls to show that the trends seen for the gene group we identified cannot be explained as indirect transcriptional responses to aneuploidy . , chromosome-specific responses to aneuploidy should affect groups of functionally related genes , whether or not the genes are amplified . In an attempt to remove amplified genes that may be a part of such indirect responses , we first identified unamplified genes in each aneuploid strain with significantly reduced expression compared to its isogenic euploid  and identified enriched functional groups  . We then removed from consideration all amplified genes in that strain belonging to any of those strain-specific functional groups . This analysis removed ~30% of the genes classified as potentially dosage compensated in the original analysis; the majority of these were linked to mitochondrial function and is consistent with the common mitochondrial response we reported  . We note that our procedure may remove genes that are legitimately dosage compensated , especially those that show only partial compensation , which could cause indirect effects on unamplified genes in the same functional category  . The revised set of amplified genes with lower-than-expected expression remains enriched for functional groups that cannot be explained by common or chromosome-specific responses , including cytosolic RPs  , other proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis  , and an overlapping gene set linked to translation  . Importantly , these enrichments remained significant when genes from each chromosome were held out  , showing that the result is not skewed by one particular aneuploidy . , these categories are not enriched among unamplified genes whose expression is affected by the common aneuploidy response  . Thus , our analysis is clearly enriching for genes subject to dosage compensation . The revised gene set enriched for dosage-compensated genes displays significantly higher levels of CNV in S . cerevisiae populations , compared to all genes and compared to amplified genes with proportionately elevated expression  . If these trends are driven by genes subject to repression or indirect effects of aneuploidy , we would expect to see the same patterns for unamplified genes that show reduced expression compared to euploid controls . But this is not the case: unamplified genes with reduced expression  show no increase in CNV propensity or buffering scores compared to the control group . The trends for the affected amplified genes remain if we define genes using a more stringent threshold to call affected genes , if we remove from the analysis all genes belonging to any of the enriched functional groups , or if we separately hold out each amplified chromosome from the analysis  . Therefore , the results we report cannot be explained as a secondary transcriptional response to the amplified chromosome – we believe that the group is legitimately enriched for genes subject to dosage control and that dosage compensation has an important effect on genome evolution . Gene sets enriched for dosage-compensated genes show unique signatures . The revised list of amplifed genes with lower-than-expected expression were partitioned into thirds , based on genes with the greatest  or smallest  reduction in expresison compared to expectation . The fraction of genes in each group for which at least three of 103 strains showed gene amplification . Here , Buffering Score represents the number of 103 strains with a gene duplication divided by expression constraint  . that dosage compensation does not function at most amplified genes , as seen for sex chromosomes in other organisms . Our goal was not to define individual genes subject to dosage compensation , but rather to investigate the group – we caution that no single gene from our lists should be taken as dosage compensated without orthogonal evidence . In the end , the revised gene set we identified here at the highest confidence encompasses 157  genes out of 1 , 243 interrogated across all the isogenic strain sets . It is true that some of the genes we identified , particularly those with only subtly reduced expression patterns , are false positive calls from our analysis . However , the number of genes we identified is inline with the 14% of dosage compensated genes reported by Springer and colleagues   and is consistent with  our original report of 10–30% . Future work will undoubtedly clarify the precise number and identity of genes subject to dosage compensation , as well as the genetic basis for phenotypic differences in aneuploidy tolerance in laboratory versus wild strains . We estimated the FDR of our thresholding method as follows: 1 ) We calculated the log2 ratio of mRNA in aneuploid versus euploid cells , minus the corresponding log2 ratio of relative DNA abundance for that gene minus 1SD of the chromosome-wide mean of relative DNA values . 2 ) These difference values were randomly permuted with regard to the gene labels , within each of two replicates in both the isogenic and non-isogenic strain pairs . We also generated a revised list of putatively dosage compensated genes as follows: Unamplified genes with significant expression differences in each strain were identified using edgeR  comparing RPKM values in aneuploid versus isogenic diploid strains . Biological duplicate RNA-seq data were analyzed for T73_Chr8-4n versus T73_Chr8-2n , YJM428_Chr16-4n versus YJM428_Chr16-2n , and YPS163_Chr8-disomic versus YPS163_Chr8-monosomic; biological triplicates were analyzed for YPS1009_Chr12-4n versus YPS1009_Chr12-2n and for NCYC110_Chr8-4n versus NCYC110_Chr8-2n  . 01  and a negative mean log2  in aneuploid versus euploid expression were taken as 'lower expressed' . Functional enrichment was done on the set of lower-expressed unamplified genes for each strain separately , using the program FunSpec  and taking p<0 . Amplified genes from that strain belonging to any of the strain-specific enriched functional categories  were removed from the original list of putatively dosage compensated genes . One of the strains  had a substantial secondary response at unamplified genes , amounting to two thirds of the 1 , 456 lower-than-expressed unamplified genes pooled across the isogenic strain pairs – the effected genes from YJM428_Chr16-4n were admittedly enriched for translation factors and rRNA biogenesis genes , causing the removal of amplified Chr16 genes in those categories from the list of affected genes . Nonetheless , the functional categories described in the text remained significant for the remaining 157 genes with reduced expression in aneuploid strains . For analysis in Figure 1 , the genes were ranked and partitioned into thirds based on the magnitude of expression reduction  , taken as the average relative mRNA ratio for the isogenic aneuploid and euploid strains compared to the relative DNA ratio between those strains . As a separate approach to call putatively dosage compensated genes , we used the same methods described for Figure 4B of Hose et al . , except that we selected genes whose relative mRNA values were less than the relative DNA ratio measured for that gene minus 3 SD of the chromosome-wide mean in that strain . A gene had to be below that gene-specific threshold in all  biological replicates of isogenic strain pairs . This identified 56 genes across the five strains . We applied an identical method to identify non-amplified genes with reduced expression; for this , we used the same SD as applied for amplified genes  . We plotted the fraction of genes for which at least three of 103 strains previously analyzed had evidence of gene amplification  . Trends were similar when plotting the fraction of genes in which at least two strains displayed CNV . We performed a variety of other controls , ensuring that trends were the same when each chromosome was held out separately , when genes belonging to any functional group were held out , and using different cutoffs for CNV . "
"Proximity biotinylation based on Escherichia coli BirA enzymes such as BioID  and TurboID is a key technology for identifying proteins that interact with a target protein in a cell or organism . Here , we demonstrate a novel BirA enzyme , AirID  , which was designed de novo using an ancestral enzyme reconstruction algorithm and metagenome data . AirID-fusion proteins such as AirID-p53 or AirID-IκBα indicated biotinylation of MDM2 or RelA , respectively , in vitro and in cells , respectively . AirID-CRBN showed the pomalidomide-dependent biotinylation of IKZF1 and SALL4 in vitro . AirID-CRBN biotinylated the endogenous CUL4 and RBX1 in the CRL4CRBN complex based on the streptavidin pull-down assay . LC-MS/MS analysis of cells that were stably expressing AirID-IκBα showed top-level biotinylation of RelA proteins . These results indicate that AirID is a novel enzyme for analyzing protein–protein interactions . In cells expressing BioID-fusion bait protein , proteins with which the bait protein interacts are biotinylated and can be comprehensively analyzed using precipitation with streptavidin followed by mass spectrometry  . However , TurboID caused non-specific biotinylation and cell toxicity when labeling times were increased and biotin concentrations were high  . BiolD , TurboID , and BiolD2 are excellent enzymes , and they offer some improvements for the proximity biotinylation of cellular target proteins . Further improvement of BirA enzymes is an important goal that would enhance the convenience of proximity biotinylation in cells . The combination of ancestral reconstruction and site-directed mutagenesis has provided a newly useful BirA enzyme , AirID  , which functions in proximity biotinylation in vitro and in cells . Although the sequence similarity between BioID and AirID is 82% , AirID showed high biotinylation activity against interacting proteins . Our results indicate that AirID is a useful enzyme for analyzing protein–protein interactions in vitro and in cells . We synthesized these ancestral BirA proteins  using a wheat cell-free protein production system to investigate their enzymatic potentials  . In all of the designed ancestral BirA proteins , an arginine residue corresponding to R118 of EcBirA was conserved in an active site for biotinylation  . To compare the proximity biotinylation activity among these genotypes , wild-type or RG mutant BirA gene was N-terminally fused to the p53 gene . The resulting BirA-p53 proteins were synthesized using the cell-free system before mixing with FLAG-GST  -MDM2 , because an interaction between p53 and MDM2 has been widely observed  . Immunoblotting revealed BirA-p53 biotinylation in EcBirA-RG  , AVVA-WT , AVVA-RG , AFVA-RG , and GFVA-RG  . FG-MDM2 proximity biotinylation was detected under these conditions in three ancestral BirA-RG mutants—AVVA-RG , AFVA-RG , and GFVA-RG—indicating that they are candidate enzymes for proximity biotinylation . AVVA-RG showed both the highest activity of proximity biotinylation and extra biotinylations in the lower size region  when compared to the three ancestral BirA-RG mutants . GFVA-RG indicated the highest biotinylation activity for a specific peptide  and the lowest extra proximity biotinylation . As TurboID has an R118S mutation  that increases the activity of proximity biotinylation , we made RS mutants of the two ancestral BirA enzymes and compared their proximity biotinylation activities in vitro and in cells . An interaction between N-terminal AGIA-BirA-fusion p53  and FG-MDM2 was used to validate proximity biotinylation ability in vitro . Incubation time , biotinylation temperature , and biotin concentration were investigated as conditions for proximity biotinylation . Consequently , TurboID , AVVA-RG , AVVA-RS , and GFVA-RS showed higher proximity biotinylation activity after 3 hr than did BioID with a 16-hr incubation  . The GFVA enzyme with a RS mutation dramatically increased the activity of proximity biotinylation to RelA  , but proximity biotinylation was almost the same in AVVA-RG and -RS . AVVA-RG , AVVA-RS , and GFVA-RS showed high activity of proximity biotinylation at temperatures above 16 °C  . AVVA-RG , AVVA-RS , and GFVA-RS showed high proximity biotinylation activity at biotin concentrations greater than 0 . On the basis of these results , three BirA enzymes—AVVA-RG , AVVA-RS , and GFVA-RS—were used for further analysis . We used IκBα and RelA to validate the proximity biotinylation ability of these three enzymes in other protein–protein interactions because the IκBα–RelA interaction has been widely observed  . As in the analysis of the p53–MDM2 interaction , N-terminal AGIA-BirA-fusion IκBα  and FLAG-GST-RelA  sequences were constructed . After co-incubating AGIA-BirA-IκBα and FG-RelA , AVVA-RS or GFVA-RS , high RelA biotinylation was indicated  . FG-MDM2 biotinylation by AGIA-BirA-IκBα was not observed . In addition , GFP  was terminally fused to MDM2 ( GFP-MDM2  ) because the mobility size of this fusion protein on SDS-PAGE is very similar to that of BirA-fusion p53 and MDM2 . AGIA-BirA-p53 fusions were transiently expressed in HEK293T cells with or without GFP-MDM2  , and they were compared with or without biotin supplement . GFVA-RS showed higher biotinylation of FG-MDM2 than did other enzymes under conditions without biotin supplementation  . Furthermore , GFVA-RS also indicated biotinylation of FG-MDM2 under biotin supplementation conditions  . Taken together , these results indicated that an ancestral BirA with GFVA-RS is a good enzyme for analyzing protein–protein interactions both in vitro and in cells . Thus , we selected GFVA-RS , and we called this AirID  . Before utilizing AirID for various applications , we assessed AirID for the two activities self-biotinylation and 5'-biotinyl-AMP production , because these activities indicate proximity biotinylation . Each enzyme alone or the p53-fusion form was used to investigate the two activities in BioID , TurboID , and AirID . BioID and TurboID showed self biotinylation , and TurboID had the highest activity  . AirID did not have the activity , indicating that AirID does not self-biotinylate . As TurboID was selected as an enzyme by screening the yeast-surface display that showed the highest self-biotinylation activity  , the highest activity from TurboID is reasonable . The lack of self-biotinylation activity in AirID may be caused by a property of AirID as the enzyme or by a lack of accessible lysine residues on AirID . We next investigated the ability of the AirID enzyme to produce biotinoyl-5′-AMP . His-tagged TurboID , GFVA-RG , and AirID proteins were produced in an E . Highly purified enzymes were obtained  and biotinylation of TurboID was found , indicating that TurboID biotinylated itself in E . As shown in Figure 2—figure supplement 3 , self-biotinylation of AirID was not observed . Furthermore , to investigate the biotinylation ability of AirID at the biotin ligation site  of E . AirID and GFVA-RG biotinylated His-bls-FLAG-GST  , but TurboID did not do so . AirID and GFVA-RG produced biotinoyl-5′-AMP , and this activity was decreased by supplementing with His-bls-FLAG-GST  . AMP was increased at the same time , indicating that biotinoyl-5′-AMP is produced by these enzymes and that AMP is released after biotinylation of His-bls-FLAG-GST . Biotinoyl-5′-AMP formation was shown as AirID > GFVA-RG > TurboID by comparing the enzymes under these conditions  , suggesting that AirID has higher biotinoyl-5′-AMP formation than TurboID under low ATP conditions . We compared the optimal conditions for proximity biotinylation in cells between BioID , TurboID , and AirID . As a model of proximity biotinylation , AGIA-BirA-fusion p53 and FG-MDM2  were co-expressed in cells . Biotin concentration and biotinylation time were investigated as the variable conditions for proximity biotinylation . Consequently , AirID and TurboID biotinylated MDM2 at biotin concentrations higher than 0 . Although TurboID-p53 dramatically increases biotinylation of high molecular weight products with long incubations of >6 hr with >5 µM biotin , AirID-p53 showed similar results from 3 to 24 hr and with 0 . This indicates that the AirID-fusion protein could function in a wide variety of conditions . Furthermore , PPI dependency was examined between AirID-IκBα and TurboID-IκBα . GFP and either AGIA-AirID-IκBα or AGIA-TurboID-IκBα were coexpressed in HEK293T cells . Next , biotinylation after 1 , 3 , 6 , and 24 hr incubation with 5 µM of biotin supplementation was analyzed using a streptavidin-pull down assay . TurboID showed much higher biotinylation in whole lysates than did AirID . After 1 hr of incubation , biotinylation of co-expressed GFP was found in TurboID-IκBα , and continuous tubulin biotinylation was also carried out after 3 hr  . They found no AirID-IκBα biotinylation , although AirID was incubated for 24 hr with biotin . These results indicated that AirID has high PPI dependency . We used AirID for various in vitro applications . Nutlin-3 was used to investigate whether AirID can be used to validate an inhibitor of PPI . Immunoblotting revealed that nutlin-3 inhibited FG-MDM2 biotinylation by AGIA-AirID-p53  . As we used AlphaScreen technology for drug screening of PPI in previous reports  , we used it to detect the biotinylation of drug-dependent PPI inhibition  . FG-MDM2 biotinylation by AGIA-AirID-p53 interaction was also detected  using AlphaScreen technology , and the signal was decreased by supplementing with nutlin-3  . These results indicate that AirID can detect PPI inhibition by the drug . To investigate whether AirID detects a drug-dependent PPI in vitro , CRBN–IKZF1 and CRBN–SALL4 interactions were analyzed with or without pomalidomide . Biotinylations of FG-IKZF1 and FG-SALL4 by AGIA-AirID-CRBN  were increased by supplementing with pomalidomide  . These results indicate that AirID can detect a drug-dependent PPI in vitro . Furthermore , the biotinylations of neosubstrates by AirID-CRBN with pomalidomide were investigated in cells . Myc-tag fusion IKZF1  and myc-SALL4 were transiently co-expressed with AGIA-AirID-CRBN  or AGIA-AirID-CRBN-YW/AA in CRBN-knockout HEK293T cells . By supplementing with 5 µM biotin , biotinylations of both myc-IKZF1 and myc-SALL4 were detected by expressing AGIA-AirID-CRBN   . They were not observed in co-expression with AGIA-AirID-CRBN-YW/AA . These results indicate that AirID can detect a drug-dependent PPI in cells . To investigate whether AirID detects proteins in a multiple complex , AirID-CRBN was mixed in with the complex members . Biotinylations of DDB1 , CUL4 , and RBX1 by AGIA-AirID-CRBN were observed  , but AGIA-AirID was not biotinylated . This indicated that AirID can detect PPI in a multiple protein complex . To investigate whether the FT–FD interaction detects biotinylation of AirID , FT and FD genes in Arabidopsis were selected to co-synthesize FT-AirID and AGIA-FD proteins using by the wheat cell-free system with 500 nM biotin . Under these conditions , FT-AirID biotinylated AGIA-FD , but AGIA-DHFR biotinylation was not observed  . This co-translational condition reaction was incubated for 16 hr at 16 °C with biotin , indicating that AirID-dependent biotinylation functions in co-translational conditions based on the cell-free system . Taken together , these results indicate that the AirID enzyme is useful for biochemical analysis of PPI . We next analyzed the cellular localization of AirID and cellular biotinylation by AirID . AGIA-AirID alone or AGIA-AirID-p53 was transiently expressed in HEK293T cells . Fluorescent streptavidin was found in whole cells by supplementing AirID expression cells with biotin  . In AirID-p53 expression cells , the fluorescence was mainly observed in the nucleus , and it was at the same level for cells exposed to either 5 µM or 50 µM biotin concentration  . These fractionations indicated that AirID and AirID-p53 were mainly found in the cytosol or nucleus , respectively  . This suggested that AirID-fusion protein localization is dependent on fusion protein features . We investigated whether proteins that were biotinylated by AirID have native function . Because MDM2 has been known to induce p53 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system in cells  and AirID-p53 provided both self and MDM2 biotinylation  , AGIA-AirID-p53 and GFP-MDM2 were transiently co-expressed in cells . The inactive MDM2 form , FG-MDM2  , also did not promote AirID-p53  , indicating that AirID-p53 degradation is carried out by GFP-MDM2 . In addition , MG132 treatment biotinylated AirID-p53 under biotin supplementation conditions . These results indicated that biotinylated MDM2 works as a E3 ligase for biotinylated AirID-p53 . Two types of expression plasmids , AGIA-AirID-RelA and AGIA-RelA , were constructed . Biotin supplementation induced biotinylation of AGIA-AirID-RelA , but AGIA-RelA biotinylation was not found  . The luciferase assay revealed that the transactivation activity of AirID-RelA was nearly the same for AGIA-RelA , AGIA-AirID-RelA , and biotinylated AGIA-AirID-RelA , indicating that biotinylated RelA functions as a normal transcription factor . HEK293T cells that stably expressed AirID or AirID-IκBα were constructed using a lentivirus system to investigate whether AirID affects HEK293T cell viability . In the stable cells expressing AirID-IκBα , RelA biotinylation was clearly found by supplementing with >50 µM for 6 hr . It was not found in cells in which AirID was stably expressed  . The cell growth of both cell types was not fully inhibited by 50 µM biotin supplementation  , indicating that AirID does not affect cell viability under 50 µM biotin supplementation conditions . Therefore , AirID- or TurboID-expressing cells were cultured with or without biotin for 48 hr and then the viability of them was analyzed . Compared with control  , the viability of TurboID-expressing cell was significantly decreased with 50 µM biotin , but the viability of AirID-expressing cells was not significantly affected  . We investigated whether AirID could biotinylate dependently interacting endogenous proteins in cells . AGIA-AirID-IκBα was transiently expressed in HEK293T cells under different biotin concentration conditions . Endogenous RelA protein was biotinylated without supplemental biotin by transiently expressing AGIA-AirID-IκBα in cells  . These biotinylations were not found for AGIA-AirID alone . As the IκBα protein interacts with RelA , this result illustrated that biotinylated AGIA-AirID-IκBα may bring endogenous RelA without biotinylation . Using the same lysates , the streptavidin-pull down assay recovered RelA protein , indicating that RelA biotinylation depends on AGIA-AirID-IκBα . These results showed IκBα-interaction-dependent biotinylation by AirID . As in vitro protein biotinylation involving in a CRL4AirID-CRBN complex was found  , we investigated whether proteins in the CRL4 complex were biotinylated by AirID-fusion CRBN in cells . AGIA-AirID-CRBN was transiently expressed in HEK293T cells , and cell lysates were pulled down using streptavidin beads . Biotinylation of CUL4 and RBX1 was found after supplementing with 5 µM biotin  , but DDB1 biotinylation was not found . Taken together , these results indicate that the biotinylation assay using the AirID-fusion target is a useful tool for analyzing PPI in the cell . Since BioID has been widely used to identify PPI in cells using mass spectrometry  analysis  , we also analyzed biotinylated proteins using LC-MS/MS in the cells stably expressing AirID alone or AirID-IκBα that were used in Figure 4E . These features show that an eluted biotinylated peptide has a single biotin , indicating that the direct determination of biotinylated peptide provides a biotinylation site on the peptide . Using this method , we found 12 biotinylated peptides that were present in AirID-IκBα-expressing cells at levels that were more than five times higher than those in cells expressing only AirID  . In the top five peptides , three biotinylated peptides were derived from RelA proteins  , indicating that AirID-IκBα could accurately biotinylate a major partner RelA protein in the cells . Furthermore , we investigated whether AirID-dependent biotinylation occurs in a specific region . Comparison of amino-acid sequences among the top 20 biotinylated peptides showed no similarity except for a single Lys residue  , suggesting that the proximate biotinylation by AirID happens on the Lys residue but does not have a preferred sequence . In Figure 5A , the streptavidin pull down clearly showed biotinylation of the endogenous RelA protein in transiently AirID-IκBα expressing cells . We assessed whether an AirID-IκBα-dependent biotinylation of RelA could be detected using LC-MS/MS in transiently AirID-IκBα expressing cells . Taken together , these results suggest that detection of AirID-dependent biotinylation using LC-MS/MS is useful for PPI analysis in cells . Here , we used an algorithm of ancestral enzyme reconstruction using a large genome dataset , and we investigated five ancestral BirA enzymes . Finally , we combined biochemical experiments and RS mutations to create AirID with high PPI proximity biotinylation . When we looked at BioID  , TurboID , and AirID , the proximal biotinylation activity of BioID  was considerably lower than that of TurboID and AirID  . By contrast , TurboID showed the highest proximate biotinylation activity in vitro and in cells  . However , the highest activity from TurboID provided extra biotinylation on unexpected proteins , such as like GFP or tubulin , in cells that were treated for a long incubation of more than six hours and higher biotin concentrations   . In the first report describing TurboID , it was used as a biotin-labelling enzyme rather than as a proximal biotinylation enzyme for PPI  . In the case of AirID , GFP and tubulin biotinylations were not observed in the same conditions as those catalyzed by TurboID  . Streptavidin-pull down assay and LC-MS/MS analysis also indicated that AirID-fusion proteins were able to biotinylate each well-known interactor accurately in the transient- and stable-expression cells  . The formation of biotinoyl-5′-AMP was greater for AirID than for TurboID in low ATP concentrations   , and it prefers lower concentrations of biotin   . In addition , analysis of biotinylation sites from LC-MS/MS showed that AirID biotinylation happened with no special sequence preference on a proximate Lys residue  . Taken together , our AirID is expected to enhance PPI-dependent biotinylation accuracy , suggesting that AirID is suitable for PPI analysis in cells . Inhibition of MDM2–p53 interaction by nutline-3 was detected using AirID biotinylation  , and several pomalidomide-dependent interactions between CRBN and neosubstrates were also detected by AirID biotinylation  . These results indicate that AirID-dependent biotinylation would be useful for PPI analysis using chemical compounds . Furthermore , in vivo proximity biotinylation using BioID has been performed in many studies because the identification of in vivo partner proteins of target proteins is key for understanding biological functions  , and it has uncovered new PPIs . Stable expression of AirID-IκBα did not induce cell-growth inhibition even under biotin-supplementation conditions  , suggesting that AirID-fusion protein expression would have very low toxicity . Therefore , AirID could also be used for in vivo screening for protein interactors of a target protein . In conclusion , AirID is a novel enzyme providing proximity biotinylation for PPI analysis . Lentivirus-based AGIA-tagged AirID and AirID-IκBα plasmids were generated using restriction enzyme digestion of a CS II-CMV-MCS-IRES2-Bsd vector . coli expression , TurboID , GFVA-R118G , or AirID was cloned into the pET30a-His vector using an In-Fusion HD Cloning Kit  . Lentiviruses expressing AGIA-AirID and AGIA-AirID-IκBα were generated by transfection using PEI MAX - Transfection Grade Linear Polyethylenimine Hydrochloride  . For biotin labelling , 1 μl of BirA or of the ancestral BirAs produced by the wheat cell-free expression system were added to the bottom layer , and 500 nM  of D-biotin  was added to both upper and bottom layers as described previously  . To purify TurboID , GFVA-R118G , and AirID proteins , the genes encoding them were inserted into pET30a and transformed into E . AGIA-AirID-p53 was added to the mixture and incubated for 1 hr at 26 °C . The proximity-dependent biotin identification method using AirID was performed according to a previous report  . Briefly , confluent HEK293T cells stably expressing AirID or AirID-IκBα fused at the N-terminus with an AGIA tag in a 6 cm dish were incubated with 50 μM biotin for 6 hr before harvesting using ice-cold PBS . "
"In animal oocytes and early embryos , mRNA poly  -tail length strongly influences translational efficiency  , but later in development this coupling between tail length and TE disappears . Overexpressing cytoplasmic poly  -binding protein  in Xenopus oocytes specifically improved translation of short-tailed mRNAs , thereby diminishing coupling between tail length and TE . Thus , strong coupling requires limiting PABPC , implying that in coupled systems longer-tail mRNAs better compete for limiting PABPC . In addition to expressing excess PABPC , post-embryonic mammalian cell lines had two other properties that prevented strong coupling: terminal-uridylation-dependent destabilization of mRNAs lacking bound PABPC , and a regulatory regime wherein PABPC contributes minimally to TE . Thus , these results revealed three fundamental mechanistic requirements for coupling and defined the context-dependent functions for PABPC , which promotes TE but not mRNA stability in coupled systems and mRNA stability but not TE in uncoupled systems . In the nucleus , these poly  tails can facilitate mRNA nucleocytoplasmic export  , whereas in the cytoplasm , they serve as molecular timers for mRNA decay , with their lengths becoming progressively shorter by deadenylation , which eventually leads to mRNA de-capping and turnover  . The length of a poly  tail can also influence mRNA translational efficiency  . Pioneering studies in maturing oocytes and early embryos show that lengthening of poly  tails through cytoplasmic polyadenylation is critical for regulating gene expression during these early stages of animal development  . Results from these and other single-gene studies in oocytes and early embryos had led to the notion that the length of a poly  tail generally correlates with TE  . More recent transcriptome-wide studies confirm a strong global relationship between tail length and TE in oocytes and early embryos  . However , in fish , frogs , and flies , this correlation diminishes near the time of gastrulation , and coupling between poly  -tail length and TE is essentially nonexistent in post-embryonic systems  . The existence of this transition in translational control brings to the fore mechanistic questions as to how coupling between poly  -tail length and TE is established in oocytes and early embryos and why this coupling disappears later in development . Although Saccharomyces cerevisiae has only one PABPC  , most animals contain multiple paralogs that have spatially and temporally varied expression patterns  . Binding of PABPCs to mRNA poly  tails can enhance translation , but the mechanism of this enhancement is unclear . One model posits that the mRNA forms a closed-loop structure mediated by the association of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF4G  with both PABPC and the cap-binding protein eIF4E  . However , despite direct visualization of loop-like assemblies both within some cells and in an in vitro reconstituted system  , results of several studies have questioned the universality of this model among different mRNAs and biological systems  . Genetic ablation of yeast Pab1p is lethal and causes lengthening of steady-state poly  -tail lengths  , which is attributed to pre-mature mRNA decapping and compromised deadenylation  . Because mRNA decay is coupled to deadenylation  , the deadenylation-stimulatory effects of PABPC would accelerate the demise of bound mRNAs , which contrasts to other studies suggesting PABPC protects mRNAs from degradation in cell extracts  . The dichotomous and potentially conflicting functions of metazoan PABPC examined in vitro raise the question of the extents to which PABPC might influence mRNA poly  -tail length and stability in metazoan cells . PABPCs are generally thought to coat mRNA poly  tails in the cytoplasm  . However , the stoichiometry between PABPC and poly  sites might vary in different biological contexts  , and it is unclear whether this potentially variable stoichiometry might impact gene regulation in cells . Moreover , the possibility that PABPC might influence protein synthesis by affecting either mRNA stability or TE can complicate analysis of its molecular functions in different biological systems , leaving its mechanistic roles poorly understood . Here , we uncover mechanistic requirements for coupling between poly  -tail length and TE observed in oocytes and early embryos , showing that this coupling and the subsequent uncoupling observed later in development rely on a context-dependent switch in the function of PABPCs . To assay the influence of poly  -tail length on TE , we used an in vitro translation extract made from stage VI Xenopus laevis oocytes , where cytoplasmic polyadenylation leads to translational activation of the c-mos , cdk2 and some cyclin mRNAs  . Into this extract we added Nanoluc luciferase  reporter mRNAs with either a short  or a long  poly  tail  . These mRNAs were made by in vitro transcription from DNA templates that encoded the mRNA body followed by the poly  tail as well as the hepatitis delta virus  self-cleaving ribozyme , which cleaved during in vitro transcription to generate not only a defined 3′ end at the desired poly  -tail length but also a 2′−3′-cyclic phosphate designed to inhibit undesired lengthening or shortening of the tail  . When added to the frog oocyte extracts together with a firefly luciferase  mRNA , used to normalize for overall translation activity , the long-tailed reporter was translated substantially better than was the short-tailed reporter  . In contrast , the same reporter mRNAs were translated nearly equally well in rabbit reticulocyte lysate , a post-embryonic differentiated system for which no coupling between tail length and TE was expected  . In both the oocyte and reticulocyte systems , the reporter mRNAs were stable with no detectable changes to their tail lengths  . Thus , the large difference in luciferase signal observed between the short- and long-tailed reporters in the oocyte extract was attributable to a difference in TE . These results showed that the causal relationship between longer poly  -tail length and greater TE observed for some maturation-specific mRNAs in frog oocytes  is not unique to those mRNAs , and indicated that frog oocyte extracts provide a system for probing the mechanism that couples tail length to TE . When considering the potential mechanisms for reading out tail length and promoting translation , a role for PABPC seemed plausible . For instance , translation might be sensitive to the number of PABPC molecules associated with an mRNA . In one mechanistic possibility , PABPC might be in excess over its binding sites within tails , such that tails are coated with the protein , as is generally thought to occur  , in which case , mRNAs with longer tails might be detected as those able to bind more PABPC molecules . At another mechanistic extreme , PABPC might be limiting , such that mRNAs compete with each other for PABPC binding , in which case , those with long poly  -tail lengths would compete more effectively and thereby preferentially benefit from any enhancement in TE that PABPC binding confers . To distinguish between these possibilities , we increased available PABPC in our oocyte extracts , reasoning that if PABPC were already coating the tails , adding more would have little effect , whereas if PABPC were limiting , adding more would diminish the competition for PABPC binding and thereby reduce the difference in TE observed between short- and long-tailed mRNAs . Accordingly , we purified recombinant Xenopus PABPC1 to near homogeneity  and examined its influence when added to the in vitro translation extract derived from stage VI oocytes . As more PABPC1 was added , translation of the short-tailed reporter increased , with little change in translation of the long-tailed reporter , whereas adding equivalent amount of eGFP had little impact on translation of either reporter  . This concentration-dependent diminution of coupling between tail-length and TE strongly supported the hypothesis that limiting PAPBC is required for strong coupling . To investigate whether this requirement of limiting PABPC was restricted to our in vitro extracts or whether it also applied to living oocytes , we performed serial-injection experiments in oocytes . Stage VI frog oocytes were first injected with either PABPC1 mRNA or a control , and after waiting 24 hr to allow PABPC1 protein to accumulate  , oocytes were injected with the reporter mRNAs and assayed for luciferase activity  . Whereas injecting the control mRNA , eGFP , had no more influence than injecting water , injecting PABPC1 mRNA significantly reduced the extent to which poly  -tail length and TE were coupled  . Similar results were observed for an analogous pair of Renilla luciferase reporter mRNAs or when injecting ePAB mRNA rather than PABPC1 mRNA  . Reporter poly  -tail lengths did not change over the course of the experiment  , which indicated that the increased relative translation of the short-tailed reporter mRNA was not due to elongated poly  tails . Introducing additional PABPC into frog oocytes specifically improved translation of the short-tailed reporter while having little effect on translation of either the long-tailed reporter or reporters for which tails were replaced with either a stem-loop from the 3′ end of a histone mRNA  or a triple-helix from the 3′ end of the Malat1 non-coding RNA  . The observation that mRNAs required a tail to benefit from added PABPC indicated that the effects of adding PABPC were mediated in cis through tail-bound PABPC molecules , and were direct and not some secondary consequence of altering translation . Moreover , the observation that PABPC had little effect on translation of long-tailed mRNAs suggested that these mRNAs competed for the limiting endogenous PABPC so effectively that binding of additional PABPC imparted no detectable additional benefit to their translation . Introducing PABPC1  , which encodes a PABPC1 mutant that is unable to bind eIF4G  , also diminished coupling but did so by repressing translation of the long-tailed reporter . The reduced translation of the long-tailed reporter was presumably due to a dominant-negative effect of replacing functional endogenous PABPC molecules with defective ones . The observation that the long-tailed reporter was preferentially affected agreed with our conclusion that endogenous PABPC was limiting and preferentially binding to long-tailed mRNAs . The idea that the M161A mutant was unable to enhance translation in frog oocytes implied that the ability for PABPC to bind eIF4G and form the closed-loop structure is important for enhancing translation in this context  . In summary , our results with reporters in oocytes and oocyte extracts confirmed both the positive effect of PABPC on translation and the causal relationship between poly  -tail length and TE in these systems . Moreover , these results revealed that strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE requires limiting PABPC . To examine the global effect of increasing PABPC on the translational regulatory regime acting in the oocyte , we monitored the relationship between tail length and TE for endogenous mRNAs of the oocytes . As expected from results of single-gene experiments in frog oocytes  and the strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE observed in both frog embryos and fly oocytes  , we found that poly  -tail length correlated strongly with TE in stage VI frog oocytes  . Overexpressing either PABPC1 or ePAB in these oocytes significantly diminished the coupling , with the Spearman correlation  for the relationship between tail length and TE dropping from 0 . In contrast , overexpressing eGFP had no significant impact on the coupling  , which indicated that this transcriptome-wide effect was a result of additional PABPC protein rather than a non-specific effect of adding more mRNA . Accompanying the reduced coupling observed upon PABPC overexpression was a significant relative increase of TE for short-tailed mRNAs , an effect not observed in eGFP-expressing oocytes  . This TE increase was not accompanied by corresponding lengthening of poly  tails  , implying that tail-length changes did not cause these relative TE changes . To make comparisons of absolute TE changes , we repeated the ePAB-overexpression experiment but omitted rRNA depletion during sequencing library construction , thereby allowing us to normalize TE using mitochondrial mRNAs  , which were otherwise depleted by Illumina Ribo-Zero kits  . In this experiment , we also injected oocytes with a short-tailed Nluc mRNA reporter and a long-tailed Fluc mRNA reporter and monitored their absolute TE changes together with those of endogenous mRNAs . Most endogenous mRNAs had greater absolute TE in ePAB-overexpressing oocytes compared to eGFP-expressing control oocytes  . This result was consistent with 35S metabolic-labeling experiments showing that overexpression of PABPC1 but not eGFP significantly increased global protein synthesis in oocytes  . Moreover , the magnitude of the TE increase conferred by ePAB-overexpression negatively correlated with tail length , which showed that translation of short-tailed mRNAs improved substantially more than that of long-tailed mRNAs  , as observed for our co-injected reporters . Indeed , adding ePAB had essentially no overall effect on TE of endogenous mRNAs with the longest tails  , as observed for our long-tailed reporters . The preferential improvement of TEs for short-tailed mRNAs led to not only an overall shift in TE but also narrowing of the TE distribution  to more closely resemble the distributions observed in cells in which poly  -tail length and TE are not coupled  . These results supported the hypothesis that increasing PABPC in oocytes increases the opportunity for short-tailed mRNAs to bind a PABPC molecule , thereby promoting translation . Overall , the results of our global analyses of mRNAs in frog oocytes agreed with those of reporter assays , thereby extending to endogenous mRNAs support for the conclusion that limiting PABPC plays a critical role in conferring strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE . Our global analysis examining the relationship between poly  -tail length and TE of endogenous mRNAs in oocytes differed from our reporter assays in that the comparison was made between mRNAs of different genes , which can be confounded by features other than tail length that vary between these mRNAs . To overcome this issue , we developed a high-throughput method for comparing effects on different tail-length isoforms from each gene . This approach for intragenic analyses , called PAL-TRAP ( Poly  tail-Length profiling following Translating Ribosome Affinity Purification ) , resembled other TRAP approaches in that ribosomes were sparsely tagged such that their immunoprecipitation  preferentially isolated mRNA isoforms associated with more ribosomes , which were inferred to be more highly translated  . In a system in which poly  -tail length and TE were coupled , longer-tail mRNAs were expected to be associated with more ribosomes and therefore enriched in the eluate  , whereas in an uncoupled system , longer-tail mRNAs were not expected to be enriched in the eluate . To implement PAL-TRAP , we first injected stage VI frog oocytes with an mRNA encoding C-terminal HA-tagged RPL3  and allowed time for RPL3-HA protein expression and incorporation into ribosomes  . To examine the requirement of limiting PABPC for coupling between poly  -tail length and TE , we then injected oocytes with mRNAs that expressed either eGFP or ePAB . Confirming that RPL3-HA was incorporated into functional ribosomes , HA-IP from RPL3-HA-expressing oocytes enriched for proteins from both ribosomal subunits , cytoplasmic mRNAs , and ePAB , whereas HA-IP from eGFP-HA-expressing oocytes did not  . In control oocytes expressing eGFP , longer-tail mRNAs were enriched in the eluate compared to the input  , which reflected the coupling between tail length and TE  . Overexpression of ePAB reduced this enrichment for longer-tail mRNAs in the eluate compared to the input  , as expected if limiting PABPC was required for this coupling  . For both eGFP- and ePAB-expressing oocytes , the cumulative distribution of poly  -tail lengths from the flowthrough was nearly identical to that from the input  , as expected when considering that only a small fraction of input was depleted by HA-beads . When analyzing , for each gene , mRNAs with different tail-length isoforms , mRNAs from most genes  had longer median poly  -tail lengths in the eluate than in the input  , implying that for mRNAs from most genes , long-tailed isoforms were translated more efficiently than short-tailed ones . 3% mRNAs had a ≥ 5 nt longer median tail length in the eluate  . In contrast , when input and flowthrough were compared , the median tail-length differences centered on 0 nt , and mRNAs from only 5 . 4% of genes had a ≥ 5 nt longer median tail length in one of the samples , as expected when considering that only a small fraction of input was depleted by HA-beads  . Overexpressing ePAB reduced the number of genes with long-tailed isoforms enriched in the eluate and shifted the distribution of median tail-length differences closer to 0 nt  , as expected if coupling between poly  -tail length and TE diminished . In these PAL-TRAP experiments , a mixture of Rluc reporter mRNA molecules with different poly  -tail lengths was co-injected with mRNAs that expressed either eGFP or ePAB . In eGFP-expressing oocytes , longer-tail Rluc isoforms were highly enriched in the eluate compared to the input , whereas in ePAB-overexpressing oocytes , this difference diminished dramatically  . As expected , Nluc reporter mRNA , which was added to the lysate as a spike-in during HA pulldown , was not significantly enriched in longer-tail species in the eluate , regardless of the treatment , which indicated that the changes observed for Rluc mRNA reflected changes occurring in the oocyte , prior to lysis  . S , also underwent large changes in median tail differences in response to ePAB-overexpression  , changes were typically smaller for endogenous mRNAs  , which was at least partly attributable to the narrower range of initial tail length isoforms for endogenous mRNAs compared to the injected Rluc mRNA . Taken together , the PAL-TRAP results revealed intragenic coupling between poly  -tail length and TE for endogenous mRNAs as well as reporters in stage VI frog oocytes . Moreover , these PAL-TRAP analyses showed that as observed both in our reporter assays and in our global intergenic comparisons , substantial coupling between tail length and TE requires limiting PABPC . Having established the necessity of limiting PABPC for coupling , we investigated if it could also be sufficient , that is , whether limiting PABPC could confer coupling between poly  -tail length and TE in cells in which these features were normally uncoupled . Based on available mRNA-seq and mass spectrometry results  , PABPC1 and PABPC4 are the two major PABPC paralogs in HeLa cells , with PABPC1 four times more abundant than PABPC4 and the two together accounting for >95% of all PABPC in HeLa cells . Consistent with the idea that PABPC is not normally limiting in uncoupled systems , PABPC1 is estimated to be present in threefold excess over the poly  sites in HeLa cells  . To reduce PABPC to limiting levels , we used siRNAs to reduce either PABPC1 or PABPC4 alone or both PABPC1 and PABPC4 by >90%  and examined the relationship between median tail lengths and TE . Knocking down PABPC4 alone had little impact on the coupling  , consistent with the inference that PABPC4 constitutes less than 20% of the total PABPC protein . Although correlation between median poly  -tail length and TE gradually increased as more PABPC was depleted , it reached an Rs of only 0 . 18  in double-knockdown cells  , which was much weaker than that observed in frog oocytes  and frog and fish early embryos  . Minor Rs increases were observed in other mouse and human post-embryonic cell lines in which PABPC was depleted , but strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE was not established , with no Rs values exceeding 0 . Thus , other conditions in addition to limiting PABPC must also be met to confer strong coupling between poly  -length and TE . A striking consequence of depleting PABPC in HeLa cells was a sharp increase in median poly  -tail lengths , which for HeLa mRNAs increased an average of 17 and 39 nt in PABPC1- and double-knockdown cells , respectively  . Substantial changes were also observed in the distributions of global poly  -tail length , which showed that mRNAs with tails ranging from 10 to 50 nt were >2-fold depleted in the PABPC1-knockdown cells and that mRNAs with tails ranging from 10 to 135 nt were 2- to 20-fold depleted in the double-knockdown cells  . In contrast , loss of short-tailed mRNAs was not observed for mitochondria-encoded mRNAs , as expected for these mRNAs that never encounter PABPC  , and examination of internal standards and replicates confirmed that the loss of short-tailed cytoplasmic mRNAs was not attributable to inaccurate or variable measurements  . Moreover , knocking down the minor isoform  alone did not have a similar effect  , suggesting that the tail-length changes observed for cytoplasmic mRNAs were a consequence of limiting PABPC . We also used northern blots to examine effects of PABPC depletion on tail-length distributions of mRNAs from individual genes and found that the results corresponded well to those observed by tail-length sequencing . Both northern blots and sequencing showed strong depletion of short-tailed isoforms for a cytoplasmic mRNA  after PABPC knockdown but no substantial change in the tail-length distribution of a mitochondrial mRNA   . Using sequencing data to examine the intragenic tail-length distributions of cytoplasmic mRNA from each of more than five thousand other genes revealed findings resembling those observed for GAPDH  . After knocking down PABPC1 , the reduction in short-tailed mRNAs was typically most severe for mRNA isoforms with tail lengths of ~25 nt , and in the double knockdown , this dip at ~25 nt became more pronounced , with reductions extending to all but the longest-tail isoforms  . Indeed , for more than half of the genes examined , ≥2-fold reductions extended to isoforms with tails as long as 135 nt  . Similar results were observed when examining tail-length distributions in the NIH3T3 dataset  , and when examining individual tail-length distributions for mRNAs of each of the top-expressed nuclear genes but not when examining those for mRNAs of mitochondrial genes  . These results , which showed that mRNAs with short tails were preferentially destabilized when PABPC was depleted provided genetic loss-of-function evidence that PABPC stabilizes mRNAs in mammalian cell lines . Although genetic evidence for the role of PABPC in mRNA stability has been reported in yeast  , this function had not been established in mammalian cells . Although in principle the mRNA destabilization that we observed upon PABPC-depletion might have been indirect , two lines of evidence support the conclusion that this destabilization was a direct consequence of the loss of PABPC binding to poly  tails . First , destabilization preferentially occurred for short-tailed mRNAs , which were expected to be the least successful at competing for binding under conditions of limiting PABPC . Second , destabilization sharply diminished at tail lengths of 10–15 nt , which corresponded to the 12 nt poly  sequence reported to be the minimal length that can be bound by PABPC1 with high affinity  . Indeed , the modest loss observed for mRNAs with very short poly  tails  suggested that even in control cells that had abundant PABPC , mRNAs with tails shorter than 12 nt were poorly bound by PABPCs , and thus PABPC depletion did not substantially influence their abundance . A recent study observed similar poly  tail-length changes in PABPC1-depleted cells but attributed these changes to impaired deadenylation  . Because PABPC can promote deadenylation in vitro  , it is conceivable that the loss of PABPC would slow deadenylation , thereby increasing mRNA median tail lengths , as observed in Pab1-knockout yeast  . However , our analyses , which had the benefit of quantitative tail standards that enabled measurement of absolute abundance changes , revealed little added accumulation of long-tailed isoforms in PABPC-depleted cells  , indicating that a deadenylation defect was not the major cause for the perturbed tail-length distributions . Moreover , we found that mRNA half-life values , as determined by metabolic labeling , reduced significantly when PABPC was knocked down  , which concurred with the conclusion that PABPC knockdown destabilized short-tailed mRNA isoforms and argued against the previous assertion that PABPC knockdown impaired deadenylation , in that impaired deadenylation would have lengthened mRNA half-lives . Taken together , these results show that PABPC binding stabilizes mRNAs of cultured mammalian cells; if PABPC becomes limiting in these cells , the short-tailed mRNAs become destabilized , presumably because they compete less effectively for PABPC . Most importantly , the destabilization of mRNAs that competed poorly for PABPC binding helps explain why limiting PABPC was insufficient to cause strong coupling in mammalian cell lines , in that strong coupling between tail length and TE would be difficult to establish in a regulatory regime in which short-tailed mRNA molecules that lack PABPC binding are degraded rather than translated less efficiently . Thus , these results identify a second mechanistic requirement for strong coupling between tail length and TE: In addition to limiting PABPC , strong coupling requires metabolic stability of the mRNAs that compete poorly for PABPC binding . The identification of this second requirement for strong coupling brought to the fore the question of why mRNAs that competed poorly for limiting PABPC were destabilized . To explore the possible mechanisms , we searched for perturbations that could restore stability of short-tailed mRNAs in HeLa cells undergoing PABPC knockdown , monitoring tail-length distributions of endogenous GAPDH using northern blots . As a positive control , expressing an siRNA-resistant PABPC1 restored stability of short-tailed species , as did frog ePAB , which further illustrated functional conservation of PABPC from different species and developmental stages  . Interestingly , a PABPC1 variant with substitutions that disrupt its interaction with eIF4G  also restored the stability of short-tailed species , implying that the classical closed loop is not necessary for PABPC1 to protect short-tailed mRNAs from degradation . Because PABPC has been implicated in inhibiting mRNA terminal uridylation in vitro  and in cells  , and terminal uridylation has been linked to mRNA decay  , we asked if terminal uridylation contributed to the loss of short-tailed mRNAs . Knocking down both TUT4 and TUT7 in PABPC-depleted cells partially restored short-tailed GAPDH mRNAs  . Similar results were observed in HCT116 cells , in which we tagged endogenous PABPC1 with an auxin-inducible degron  and induced depletion by adding indole-3-acetic acid   . To examine the global rescue of short-tailed mRNAs and at the same time monitor mRNA terminal uridylation levels , we modified our tail-length sequencing protocol by including in the adaptor-ligation step a splint oligonucleotide designed to accommodate tails with a 3′ terminal U  . Knockdown of PABPC1 alone significantly increased the terminal uridylation levels across essentially all tail-length isoforms  , consistent with a previous report  . Knockdown of PABPC4 in addition to PABPC1 further increased uridylation of mRNA isoforms with longer tail lengths  . Knockdown of TUT4 and TUT7 in PABPC-depleted cells brought terminal uridylation of all tail-length isoforms to background levels  and , more importantly , preferentially rescued shorter-tail isoforms , thereby decreasing median tail lengths  . These results were consistent with those of our northern assays , and together , our results indicated that in these mammalian cells , limiting PABPC makes short- and medium-tailed mRNA isoforms that poorly compete for PABPC binding more susceptible to terminal uridylation , thereby accelerating their decay . Having found that destabilization of short-tailed mRNAs dampened coupling between poly  -tail length and TE in PABPC-depleted mammalian cells , a key question remained regarding how mRNA TE , if not influenced strongly by poly  -tail length , was affected in these cells . To answer this question , we conducted global profiling of HeLa cells 48 hr after siRNA transfection , a time point at which PABPC1 and PABPC4 knockdowns were substantial but secondary effects were presumably not yet too severe  . We again implemented RNA-seq and ribosome-profiling protocols that enabled absolute TE comparison by using mitochondrial mRNAs for normalization  . Surprisingly , near-complete depletion of PABPCs had no detectable effect on global mRNA TEs  . 7% of that observed in control cells , as measured by averaging ribosome-footprint changes observed for the 9697 analyzed genes  , which agreed with results of a global puromycin-based translation assay   , this reduced protein synthesis was fully explained by the decrease in mRNA levels , as indicated by a distribution of TE changes that centered near zero  . Examination of our ribosome-footprinting data revealed no upregulation of other PABPC paralogs , although the TE of PABPC1 mRNA increased 2 . Results of polysome profiling confirmed those of our sequencing-based methods , in that the reduction in translation output , as measured by the height of polysome peaks in double-knockdown cells , was attributable to an overall decrease of mRNA levels rather than to decreased TEs that would otherwise cause a shift of mRNA distribution from heavy to light fractions  . Together , these results indicated that PABPC depletion in HeLa cells had negligible effect on mRNA TE . To examine this possibility , we monitored the dynamics of tail-length , mRNA-abundance , and translation changes soon after PABPC depletion , using the HCT116 PABPC1-AID degron cell line , in which PABPC1 was rapidly and efficiently depleted after adding IAA  . Because PABPC1 is the primary PABPC isoform in HCT116 cells , depletion of PABPC1 alone caused substantial destabilization of shorter-tail mRNAs 1 hr after IAA addition , and this destabilization further increased after 3 hr  . Accompanying the loss of shorter-tail mRNAs was a corresponding reduction of mRNA abundance for most genes  . Importantly , ribosome footprints declined in lockstep with mRNA abundance , leading to median TE changes that centered near zero over the entire course of PABPC1 depletion  . Thus , as PABPC became limiting , mRNAs that lost PABPC had no detectable reduction in TE before they were destabilized . These data from the PABPC degron line allowed us to examine whether some coupling between tail length and TE might have occurred very soon after PABPC depletion—during the time window in which PABPC had become limiting but short-tailed mRNAs had only started to degrade . However , no coupling between tail length and TE was detected over the course of rapid PABPC depletion  . Thus , in this context in which two conditions for strong coupling were satisfied  , no coupling was observed , presumably because coupling also requires a regulatory regime in which PABPC enhances translation . These results show that in contrast to mRNAs of frog oocytes and presumably those of other coupled systems , mRNAs of HeLa and HCT116 cells do not require PABPC for efficient translation , which explains why poly  -tail lengths were not able to strongly influence TE after we reduced PABPC of these cells to limiting levels . Thus , these results identify a third mechanistic requirement for coupling between poly  -tail lengths and TE: coupling requires a regulatory regime in which PABPC affects mRNA translation . We find that three fundamental molecular conditions must be met for cells to use poly  -tail lengths to effectively regulate TE . First , PABPC must be limiting compared to the number of poly  sites available for binding . Under this condition , short-tailed mRNA isoforms that poorly compete for PABPC are less likely to have PABPC bound to their 3′ ends  . To the extent that PABPC is not bound , these isoforms lose the translation-activating capability of PABPC observed in coupled systems . Cooperative binding of adjacent PAPBC molecules  would further enhance partitioning of limiting PABPC away from short-tailed mRNAs and onto longer-tailed mRNAs . When additional PABPC is introduced into a coupled system , short-tailed mRNAs benefit more from PABPC binding than long-tailed ones , which are more likely to already possess the number of PABPC molecules required for more efficient translation . The requirement of limiting PABPC for coupling TE to poly  -tail length raises the question of the stoichiometry between PABPC and its sites in the poly  tails and whether this stoichiometry changes during the embryonic switch of gene-regulatory regimes . Our sequencing results indicated that the mRNAs of a stage VI frog oocyte have ~2 . 8×1011 PABPC sites  , which concurred with the previous estimate of 2 ~ 3×1011 sites per oocyte  . The amount of PABPC  in frog oocytes has been estimated at either 1 × 1011  or 1 . Our results showing that PABPC activity is limiting in frog oocytes , agreed with these estimates that imply that PABPC levels are sufficient to bind no more than half of the available PABPC sites . Poly  -site occupancy would be even lower if some PABPC proteins were sequestered from the mRNA pool or in an inactive form , which could be conferred by factors that either bind to or post-translationally modify PABPC to affect its ability to either bind poly  tails or promote translation  . Until stage 15 , developing frog embryos maintain the number of PABPC sites at a level resembling that of oocytes  . In contrast , the total amount of PABPC molecules increases significantly , nearly tripling by stage 12  —the stage at which the coupling between tail length and TE starts to disappear  . This increased PABPC would shift the stoichiometry toward PABPC being less limiting . In our overexpression experiment , we increased the level of PABPC1 to >6 times its endogenous level  . When considering that the ratio between endogenous PABPC1 and ePAB is about 1:3  , the estimated increase in overall PABPC level was >2 . Despite this potential saturation and diminished coupling between poly  -tail length and TE , coupling was not completely lost  . To the extent that poly  sites were saturated , the residual coupling suggests that oocytes might have a mechanism for counting bound PABC molecules that enables some coupling to persist even after PABPC overexpression saturates the poly  sites . One way to achieve this counting would be for a critical PABPC-interacting factor to also be limiting such that long-tailed mRNAs , with their higher number of bound PABPC molecules would more effectively compete for binding to this limiting factor . Indeed , when eIF4G was overexpressed together with PABPC1 in frog oocytes , the coupling between poly  -tail length and TE was further reduced  . The idea that PABPC interactions with limiting eIF4G might favor translation of long-tailed mRNAs in oocytes also helps to explain why overexpressing the PABPC1 M161A mutant was most detrimental to translation from the long-tailed reporter  . Another way that some coupling could persist even after overexpressing saturating levels of PABPC is through sequestration of some mRNAs away from the translation machinery . One likely location for such sequestration would be germ granules , which have been implicated in regulating mRNA translation in oocytes of diverse animal species  . This mechanism might reinforce coupling between poly  -tail length and TE , perhaps by selectively sequestering short-tailed mRNAs from the active translation pool . The second condition required for strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE is the survival of short-tailed mRNAs under conditions in which PABPC is limiting  . When PABPC was depleted in these uncoupled systems , many mRNA molecules , particularly short-tailed ones that presumably competed poorly for the remaining PABPC , were degraded . The preferential loss of mRNAs not bound by PABPC reduced the range of tail lengths , which correspondingly reduced the range of TEs that could potentially be imparted by coupling between tail length and TE . This reduced range also presumably reduced the ability to detect coupling , although some ability was expected to be retained , as indicated by an analysis in which data from a coupled system was sampled to match the more restricted tail-length distribution of an uncoupled system  . More importantly , the loss of mRNAs not bound by PABPC reduced the number of PABPC-binding sites , thereby reducing the extent to which these sites were in excess over PABPC and thus reducing coupling between tail length and TE . In oocytes and early embryos , mRNA decapping is uncoupled from deadenylation  , which helps explain why short-tailed mRNAs survive in these systems despite our finding that they have limiting PABPC activity . Second , mRNA terminal uridylation activity is very low in frog oocytes  , and it remains low throughout early embryonic development and only starts to increase dramatically after zygotic genome activation  . This developmental delay of terminal uridylation might help ensure the survival of short-tailed mRNAs when PABPC is limiting and thereby enable strong coupling between poly  -tail length and TE in oocytes and early embryos . Later in development , short-tailed mRNAs are protected from terminal uridylation by saturating PABPC , which helps explain why deletion of TUT4 and TUT7 in mouse somatic cells has little impact on mRNA abundance  . The third condition required for coupling between tail length and TE is that PABPC must have the ability to influence TE of bound mRNAs  . In the coupled system of frog oocytes , increasing PABPC levels substantially improved TE of nearly all mRNAs  . In contrast , in uncoupled systems such as HeLa and HCT116 cells , severe depletion of PABPC , such that short- and medium-tailed mRNAs were markedly destabilized , had no consistent impact on mRNA TE  . We suspect that the differential effect of PABPC on TE observed in coupled and uncoupled systems is related to the divergent levels of basal translation initiation observed between these systems . Indeed , the overall translation measured by polysome profiles in oocytes and early embryos is much lower than that observed in either later developmental stages  or post-embryonic mammalian cell lines  , which provides the opportunity for a translation-activating effect of PABPC to be more prominent in the coupled systems . Our results showing that PABPCs , while playing a crucial role in protecting mRNA from premature decay , have minimal contribution to translation in post-embryonic mammalian cell lines might seem to contradict the well-accepted function of PABPC as a translational activator . However , many previous studies that established the role for PABPC in promoting translation were carried out in frog oocytes or early embryonic systems  , where we found PABPC to globally enhance TE . Other previous studies were conducted in vitro , with mixed results: in reconstituted systems , PABPC is dispensable for translation initiation  , and in rabbit reticulocyte lysates , PABPC has a minimal effect on translation  , whereas in some other cell extracts , PABPC activates translation  . Additional experiments will be required to determine whether this discrepancy between results we obtained from living cells and those obtained in some post-embryonic cell extracts are attributable to differences between cell types or to differences between cellular cytoplasm and in vitro extracts—perhaps imparted by dilution of translational components in extracts . Such studies will need to differentiate between the translation-activation and mRNA-stabilization activities of PABPC . In the meantime , it is helpful to know that PABPC stabilizes mRNAs of post-embryonic metazoan cells and that the two activities of PABPC can be context dependent , such that in frog oocytes PABPC strongly activates translation and has no effect on mRNA stability , whereas in mammalian cell lines it stabilizes mRNAs and has no detectable effect on TE . The dual potential of PABPC in stabilizing mRNA and promoting translation bestows PABPC with distinct and context-dependent roles in regulating protein synthesis . In oocytes and early embryos , the lack of mRNA transcription and degradation leaves differential TE as the primary option for modulating protein synthesis . Our work indicates that in this context limiting PABPC proteins bind primarily to mRNAs with longer poly  tails and activate their translation . In contrast , in post-embryonic mammalian cell lines , where transcription , mRNA degradation , and translation are each operating at high efficiency , PABPCs protect mRNAs from pre-mature decay , enabling them to contribute the proper amount of protein during their lifetimes , but without any additional enhancement of TE . These context-dependent activities are not only crucial for understanding how coupling between tail length and TE is established in oocytes and early embryos and why it is lost later in development , they also provide mechanistic insight into the effects of the many posttranscriptional regulatory phenomena that alter poly  -tail lengths . For example , during miRNA-mediated repression , the Argonaute–miRNA complex binds target mRNAs and recruits factors that displace PABPC from the poly  tail and accelerate tail shortening  . In early zebrafish embryos , these effects are expected to disadvantage target mRNAs at competing for limited PABPC , which in this context would reduce their TE without changing their stability , thereby explaining why miRNAs primarily cause translational repression in these early embryos  . However , in later embryonic development as well as in post-embryonic mammalian cells , displacement of PABPC and accelerated tail shortening would reduce PABPC binding to target mRNAs , which in this context would reduce their stability without changing their TE , thereby explaining why miRNAs primarily cause mRNA destabilization in these cells  . How PABPC promotes translation remains an enigma , although the closed-loop model has offered a sound mechanistic explanation . The interaction between eIF4G and PABPC is well characterized and provides a physical link connecting both ends of the mRNA , and some studies are able to catch a glimpse of possible circular structures of mRNAs in fixed tissues  or in vitro  . Our finding that depletion of PABPC had minimal impact on TE in mammalian cell lines supports a model in which pervasive eIF4G–PABPC-associated looping of mRNAs is generally lacking in uncoupled systems . This idea is consistent with the finding that the interaction between eIF4G and PABPC is dispensable in yeast  and HEK293 cells  , both of which are uncoupled systems  . In contrast , the eIF4G–PABPC interaction is critical during frog oocyte maturation  , a process that relies on coupling between poly  -tail length and TE  , and our results showed that increasing PABPC had a global effect on upregulating TE in frog oocytes . Moreover , translation of a long-tailed reporter was substantially repressed when the PABPC M161A mutant was overexpressed in frog oocytes  . Our experiments examined only a few systems that inherently possessed either all or none of the three molecular conditions that we found to be required for strong coupling between tail length and TE , that is , limiting PABPC activity , stabilization of mRNAs lacking a bound PABPC , and PABPC-sensitive translation . The results of our experiments in which we removed one of the conditions from frog oocytes or imposed one or two of the conditions in post-embryonic mammalian cells , predict that such cells that inherently fall between the two extremes have minimal if any coupling . Indeed , the concept that multiple conditions must be met before strong coupling can be established helps to explain why coupling between tail length and TE has been so infrequently detected outside the gene regulatory regime operating in oocytes and early embryos  . For plasmids used for mammalian cell transfection , human PABPC1  and X . For siRNA-resistant human PABPC1 , silent mutations were introduced at D107 , K108 , S109 , I110 , D111 , N112 , V131 , C132 , D249 , E250 , N252 , and G253 . Additional substitutions were made at I110L , D111E , D117E , A121G , G139A , Y140F , T147S , and R166K to disrupt the interaction between PABPC1 and eIF4G  . laevis PABPC1  , ePAB  , and RPL3  coding sequences were amplified from cDNA generated from X . Fragments containing variable poly  lengths were put in desired plasmids after all other DNA fragments were assembled , also using restriction-free cloning , except that C3040H competent cells  were used to amplify the assembled plasmids . For making RNAs ending in defined lengths of poly  sequence , a primer 300 ~ 600 nt downstream of the HDV cleavage site was used to facilitate separating the 5′ cleavage product from the 3′ cleavage product and the uncleaved transcript . For making RNAs not ending in defined lengths of poly  sequence , a primer pairing to the end of the desired 3′ UTR sequence was used . When preparing oocyte extracts , the bulk stage V and VI oocytes  were washed three times with ample oocyte extraction buffer  . 5 mM magnesium acetate , and 1 fmol/µl Rluc or Nluc reporter RNA with indicated poly  tails . 5 fmol/µl Fluc RNA with a 120 nt poly  region followed by a mutant mouse Malat1 3′ end was included in each reaction for use as a normalization control . 5 fmol/µl Fluc RNA with a histone mRNA 3′-end stem-loop was included in each reaction for use as a normalization control . laevis PABPC1 , eGFP , or buffer G  . laevis PABPC1  coding sequence was amplified from cDNA generated from X . For purification of PABPC1 , the cells continued to grow at 18°C for 16 hr , after which they were collected by centrifugation , resuspended in 10 volumes of lysis buffer ( 20 mM Tris pH 7 . When examining the effects of expressing additional PABPC , either water or the indicated amount of capped mRNA  coding for either eGFP , frog PABPC1 , frog PABPC1  , frog ePAB , or human eIF4G was injected into oocytes in a volume of 2–8 nl per oocyte  at 23°C . Injected oocytes were incubated in complete OR-2 buffer at 23°C for 20 hr , after which they were either lysed for making sequencing libraries or co-injected with an Fluc reporter mRNA with a histone mRNA 3′-end stem-loop  , and either an Rluc reporter mRNA with indicated poly  -tail length  or an Nluc reporter mRNA with indicated poly  -tail length  in a total volume of 2 nl per oocyte , except in Figure 1F , where only 2 nl Nluc reporter mRNAs  with indicated 3′ ends were injected . For PAL-TRAP , oocytes were injected with mRNA  coding for either X . After incubation in complete OR-2 buffer at 23°C for 1 day , these oocytes were injected again with a mixture of mRNA coding for either eGFP or ePAB  and a population of Rluc reporter mRNAs with different poly  -tail lengths  in a volume of 4 nl per oocyte . Five to 10 oocytes were lysed by vigorous shaking and pipetting in Passive Lysis Buffer  , using 20 µl per oocyte . For probing Rluc and 18S RNAs , membranes were pre-incubated with ULTRAhyb Ultrasensitive Hybridization Buffer  at 68°C under rotation for 1 hr and then hybridized under the same conditions overnight with DNA probes , which were body-labeled with dCTP  using a Random Primer DNA Labeling Kit  according to the manufacturer’s protocol . The DNA probes were complimentary to the 3′-UTR regions immediately adjacent to the poly  tails and were labeled with T4 PNK  and ATP  . Injected oocytes  were washed once with complete OR-2 buffer and three times with 1 ml ice-cold buffer RL ( 20 mM HEPES pH 7 . A population of Nluc RNAs with varied poly  -tail lengths  were spiked in at 5 ng per 100 µl supernatant , and the bead mixture was incubated at 4°C for 1 hr with end-to-end rotation . HeLa RPL3-3xHA  cells and their parental cells , a Flp-In T-Rex HeLa cell line that had an OsTIR1 gene obtained from Andrew Holland , were cultured in DMEM with 10% FBS . HCT116 OsTIR1 cells , obtained from the Kanemaki lab  , and their derivative HCT116 PABPC1-AID  cells were cultured in McCoy’s 5A media  supplemented with 10% FBS , 2 mM L-glutamine  . HCT116 PABPC1-AID  cells were cultured as HCT116 OsTIR1 cells but supplemented with 600 µg/ml G418  . For rescue of PABPC-knockdown , cells were plated at 0 . AID was introduced at the C terminus of PABPC1 using Cas9-mediated genome engineering in HCT116 OsTIR cells . The 5′ and 3′ homology arms  flanking the stop codon of PABPC1 were amplified from genomic DNA of HCT116 OsTIR1 cells and cloned into a donor plasmid  . The AID coding sequence followed by the T2A peptide and mCherry , whose sequences were obtained from pMK1221  , was inserted immediately before the PABPC1 stop codon . IAA-induced depletion of PABPC1 in the PABPC1-AID cell line  was relatively slow and generally required more than 12 hr for 90% depletion . This plasmid was co-transfected with piggyBac Transposase expression vector  into the PABPC1-AID cell line  . The clone with the highest OsTIR1 expression  was picked for IAA-induced PABPC1-AID degradation . Plasmids used for making the PABPC1-AID cell lines and their sequence information will be available at Addgene . To prepare lysate from frog oocytes , injected oocytes were washed once with complete OR-2 buffer and three times with buffer RLL . For ribosome profiling , RNase I  was added to lysate , using 30 units per OD260 unit for lysate from mammalian cells and 10 units per OD260 unit for lysate from frog oocytes . Because the RiboZero Gold Kit depletes mitochondrial mRNAs  , mitochondrial mRNAs were not used for normalization of data generated with this kit . For TE analyses , an expression cutoff of 30 RNA-seq reads was applied for each gene , with no cutoff for ribosome-footprint reads . Normalizations of RNA-seq and ribosome-footprint reads were performed with DESeq2  , considering reads for all genes passing the cutoff , except when absolute TE comparisons were made between two samples—in which case , RNA-seq and ribosome-footprints data were normalized by only considering reads from mitochondrial genes using software DESeq2  . When only relative TEs were considered , TEs were manually centered at 0 . Our implementation of TAIL-seq  resembled that of mTAIL-seq  in that it used splint ligation to append the 3′ adapter , as in PAL-seq v1  . Total RNA  was mixed with two sets of tail-length standards   , and trace 5′-radiolabeled marker RNAs  , which were used to evaluate tail-length measurements and 3′ ligation efficiency , respectively . cDNA was generated using SuperScript III  with DNA primers containing barcodes used for multiplexing , eluted from beads by base hydrolysis of RNA and resolved on 6% urea-acrylamide denaturing gels as described  , except that cDNA fragments with sizes between 150 nt and 760 nt were selected . Poly  -tail lengths shown in Figure 2 , Figure 2—figure supplement 1 , Figure 4 , Figure 4—figure supplement 1 and Figure 4—figure supplement 2C–G were measured with this method . Sequences of adapters and other oligos used for TAIL-seq are provided in Supplementary file 1 . Because TAIL-seq appears to require an 8-lane flow cell  and thus requires many samples for efficient implementation , we stopped using this method and switched to PAL-seq . Each reaction was set up in a total volume of 20 µl by mixing total RNA  with two sets of tail-length standards   , two splint DNA oligos  and one barcoded 3′ adapter  . Poly  -selected mRNA from zebrafish ZF4 cell line  was also added to mammalian RNA samples to enable additional assessment of tail-length measurement reproducibility . Fragments between 150 and 760 nt were gel-purified , selected on beads , 5′-end phosphorylated , ligated to a 5′ adapter , and used for cDNA synthesis in the same way as in our implementation of TAIL-seq , except one of the four phased 5′ adapters was used and cDNAs with lengths between 200 and 760 nt were selected . After cluster generation and sequencing-primer hybridization , and before extension of the primer through the poly  -tail region using the Klenow fragment , 16 dark cycles were performed in order to extend the sequencing primer past the barcode and constant regions of the 3′ adapters as well as past two nucleotides corresponding to the RNA 3′ termini . After obtaining read 1 , the flow cell was stripped , the same sequencing primer was annealed , and 260 cycles of standard sequencing-by-synthesis were performed to read the barcode  , a constant segment of the 3′ adapter  , and the sequence of the RNA , beginning at its 3′ terminus , which revealed whether the RNA had a terminal uridine and provided information used to measure the length of the poly  tail . Poly  -tail lengths shown in Figure 3 , Figure 3—figure supplement 1 , Figure 4—figure supplement 2A–B and Figure 5 were measured with this method . cDNA samples to be sequenced on the same lane in a flow cell were combined , ethanol-precipitated and gel-purified as in PAL-seq v3 , except cDNA fragments with sizes between 190 nt and 800 nt were selected . The custom extension of the primer through the poly  tail region with Klenow was then performed , as in PAL-seq v2  and v3 , followed by 40 cycles of standard sequencing-by-synthesis to complete the read 1 , which was generated using two sequencing primers and had a total length of 52 nt  . Poly  tail lengths shown in Figure 6E and Figure 6—figure supplement 2 were measured with this method . For TAIL-seq and PAL-seq analyses , the databases were supplemented with sequences and annotations of tail-length standards , eGFP , Rluc , Fluc , and Nluc . Each PAL-seq tag corresponding to an mRNA provides the site of cleavage and polyadenylation , which enabled annotation of mRNA 3′-end isoforms . Software HOMER  was used to call peaks by using the merged RNA-seq data as the background and the merged PAL-seq data as the signal , with the following parameters ‘-style factor -o auto -strand separate -fdr 0 . It consisted of an initiation state  , a strong poly  -tail state  , a weak poly  -tail state  , a weak non-poly  -tail state  and a strong non-poly  -tail state  . For each cluster , the poly  tail length was determined by summing the number of states in state 1 and 2 . When evaluating tail-length distributions of mRNAs from individual genes , only results from genes with at least 100 tags were considered . This led to a mild depletion of poly  tags with tail lengths called at 50 nt , but it did not affect results and conclusions made from overall tail-length distributions . For normalization of poly  tags among samples , DESeq2  was used with all spike-in tail-length standards to obtain the scaling factor for each dataset . When analyzing median tail lengths , only genes with poly  tag counts exceeding an indicated cutoff were included in the analyses . Mapped sequences were intersected with annotations for protein-coding genes by bedtools  with the parameters ‘intersect -wa -wb -bed -S’ , retaining only those tags for which the read one sequence was assigned to a single gene or to an mRNA isoform , when mRNA 3′-end annotations were used . The sequence of poly  states was determined similarly as for TAIL-seq , except a single Gaussian Hidden Markov Model was used , and the emission matrix was initialized with  :100 . 5 For normalization of poly  tags among samples , DESeq2  was used with all spike-in tail-length standards to obtain the scaling factor for each dataset . When analyzing median tail lengths , only mRNA isoforms with poly  tag counts exceeding an indicated cutoff were included in the analyses . Data analyses for PAL-seq v4 were the same as for PAL-seq v3 , except before mapping , the first 12 nt of read one were trimmed to remove the random region and the barcode region , and no nucleotides of read two were trimmed . This led to a mild depletion of poly  tags with tail lengths called at 101 nt , but it did not affect results and conclusions made from overall tail-length distributions . Data were processed as in PAL-seq v3 , except that mapped reads were intersected with HeLa mRNA 3′-end annotations  . All poly  tags with poly  -tail lengths ≥ 2 nt were used when examining the presence of U nucleotides near the ends of poly  tails . RNA-seq libraries were prepared from purified 5EU-labeled RNA and from total RNA with the NEXTflex Rapid Directional mRNA-seq Kit  . Relative 5EU-labeled mRNA levels for each gene at each time point were obtained by normalizing read counts based on the counts for a 5EU-containing GFP RNA standard that had been spiked into each sample prior to 5EU biotinylation  . The steady-state mRNA levels of each gene were measured as the average of normalized read counts obtained from sequencing the input RNA for the 1 and 8 hr time points . TAIL-seq and PAL-seq analyses were performed using a custom script written in Python 2 . "
"In this study , we utilized fluorescent pre- and postsynaptic markers to map synaptic organization in the Drosophila antennal lobe , the first olfactory processing center . Olfactory receptor neurons  produce a constant synaptic density across different glomeruli . Active zones from ORNs , projection neurons  , and local interneurons have distinct subglomerular and subcellular distributions . The correct number of ORN active zones and PN acetylcholine receptor clusters requires the Teneurins , conserved transmembrane proteins involved in neuromuscular synapse organization and synaptic partner matching . Ten-a acts in ORNs to organize presynaptic active zones via the spectrin cytoskeleton . Ten-m acts in PNs autonomously to regulate acetylcholine receptor cluster number and transsynaptically to regulate ORN active zone number . Olfactory information is received by first-order olfactory receptor neurons  and is transmitted by ORN axons to the antennal lobe , the first olfactory processing center in the brain . There , the information is conveyed to the dendrites of second-order projection neurons  through class-specific ORN–PN synapses . The local interneurons  innervate the antennal lobe extensively with their dendrites  and are involved in transforming ORN input to PN output  . While many antennal lobe neurons have been examined electrophysiologically  , there has been little analysis of their synaptic architecture: how many connections are made , where they are made in relation to other neurons in the circuit , and what molecules are required for their organization . Here , we utilized an approach where presynaptic active zone and postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor proteins were tagged with fluorescent molecules to highlight and quantitatively describe the synaptic organization of the Drosophila antennal lobe . To understand how these rules are implemented at the molecular level , we investigated the function of the Teneurins , evolutionarily conserved type II transmembrane proteins recently shown to regulate synaptic partner matching and neuromuscular synaptic organization  . We show that presynaptic Ten-a and postsynaptic Ten-m regulate central synapse number and active zone structure . The major structural components of the T-bar include Bruchpilot  and Rim-binding protein  , with Brp encoding the ‘table-top’ of the T-bar and Rim-binding protein comprising the ‘pedestal’  . Widely used monoclonal antibodies  against Brp  label synaptic neuropil and discrete puncta corresponding to active zones  . Therefore , to visualize active zones in genetically identifiable cells , we sought to label Brp with the GAL4/UAS system  . The positions of Brp and Brp-Short in relation to known active zone proteins are also shown in a simplified format  . High magnification confocal stacks of a single DA1 glomerulus with putative synapses labeled by Brp-Short  , neurites labeled by mCD8-GFP  , and the merge  . Insets show higher magnification of a single optical section to demonstrate the punctate nature of Brp-Short-mStraw . Screenshots of three-dimensional renderings show conversion of Brp-Short into ‘Spots’  and mCD8-GFP into a volumetric surface rendering  . For  and  , the transparency of the surface rendering is at 60% to highlight internal structure and make Brp-Short puncta visible . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta  and neurite volume  in males and females for five ORN classes . Despite considerable differences in Brp-Short puncta number , all classes of ORNs display nearly identical synaptic densities . Validation of Brp-Short . Representative high magnification confocal single sections of Or67d-positive ORNs innervating the DA1 glomerulus expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and DSyd1-EGFP and stained with antibodies against mStraw  and GFP  . Note the significant overlap between Brp-Short and DSyd-1 , a known presynaptic marker . Representative high magnification confocal single sections of Or67d-positive ORNs innervating the DA1 glomerulus expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and mCD8-GFP in a control animal . Representative high magnification confocal single sections of Or67d-positive ORNs innervating the DA1 glomerulus expressing Brp-Short-mStraw , mCD8-GFP and an RNAi transgene against Brp . As endogenous Brp has been impaired , Brp-Short-mStraw is greatly diminished at the synapse . A single electron dense region as imaged by immunoelectron microscopy in an animal expressing Brp-Short-EGFP in all ORNs . 5-nm Nanogold dots  decorate electron-dense structures characteristic of active zones following immunostaining against the GFP epitope , suggesting that Brp-Short localizes to endogenous active zones . Additional examples of the Brp-Short assay . Representative high magnification confocal z-stack images of ORNs innervating the VA1d  , VA1lm  , DL4  , and DM6  glomeruli expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and stained with antibodies to mStraw  and N-Cadherin  . In all cases , puncta are clearly visible; these glomeruli were quantified in Figure 1H . 005 Full-length Brp is a 1740 amino acid protein that can aggregate upon ectopic overexpression  , limiting its use as a labeling strategy . However , Bruchpilot-Short  , a nonfunctional 754-residue portion of Brp  , localizes to endogenous sites of full-length Brp  without deleterious effects . Thus , under the control of a binary expression system , Brp-Short can act as a reporter of endogenous active zones without disrupting morphology or function  . We utilized Brp-Short to quantitatively measure the number of active zones , a key element of understanding synaptic organization . We expressed an mStrawberry-tagged version  in Or67d ORNs that innervate the DA1 glomerulus . Coexpression with a known presynaptic protein , DSyd-1 , revealed extensive colocalization  , suggesting Brp-Short-mStraw correctly localizes to synapses . Further , RNAi against a portion of endogenous Brp not encoded by the Brp-Short transgene in those ORNs resulted in a loss of Brp-Short signal at ORN presynapses  , though Brp-Short was still detectable in the cell body . This supports the hypothesis that Brp-Short requires endogenous Brp for proper localization to synapses; alternatively , Brp-Short could require endogenous Brp for proper trafficking to axon terminals . Finally , to confirm the veracity of the synaptic signal , we performed immuno-electron microscopy  using antibodies to the GFP-tag  of a Brp-Short-GFP transgene  expressed in all ORNs via pebbled-GAL4  . With pebbled-GAL4 , Brp-Short expression and localization was similar to that observed for ORN-class-specific GAL4 drivers  . While immuno-EM cannot be utilized as a quantitative strategy for determining the number of active zones  , it can be used to verify that Brp-Short localizes to electron-dense regions that are consistent with synaptic active zones . Combined , these experiments demonstrate that Brp-Short localization is consistent with active zones in the fly CNS . To determine the number of active zones produced by ORN axons that project to a given glomerulus , we expressed Brp-Short-mStraw in various ORN classes  together with UAS-mCD8-GFP  as a general neurite label . Single optical sections  revealed the punctate nature of the Brp-Short-mStraw signal . To quantify the number of Brp-Short puncta in these ORNs , we imaged individual glomeruli using high magnification confocal microscopy followed by image deconvolution and 3-D rendering  . Image processing allowed us to calculate the number of Brp-Short puncta  as ‘Spots’ and the neurite volume by surface rendering of the membrane marker mCD8-GFP  . The numbers of Brp-Short puncta exhibited low variability for multiple classes of ORNs  , suggesting that neuronal classes form stereotyped numbers of active zones across animals . While extensive EM reconstruction is not available for the antennal lobe  , the recent use of labeled Brp in the Drosophila visual system indicated that one Brp punctum is equivalent to one active zone  . Therefore , it is likely that the Brp-Short label largely reflects actual active zone number . Three-dimensional rendering of a Brp-Short and mCD8-GFP in a DA1 glomerulus . High magnification of the rendered glomerulus reveals the distribution of Brp-Short puncta within the glomerulus . 006 In examining five classes of ORNs , we found that ORN synapse number , as indicated by the number of Brp-Short puncta , scaled with ORN axon volume  , which itself scaled with glomerular size . Moreover , the assay revealed sex-specific differences in synapse number for two glomeruli , DA1 and VA1lm , that coincide with known sex-specific differences in glomerular volume  . Remarkably , despite differences in synapse number and ORN neurite volume , all observed ORN classes had a constant synaptic density of 0 . 56 Brp-Short puncta per µm3  . In all , our results validated the use of Brp-Short as a quantifiable presynaptic active zone label in central neurons and revealed quantitative parameters that govern the synaptic contacts of ORNs: a stereotyped number of connections for each neuronal class from animal to animal and a constant synaptic density regardless of ORN class . In the olfactory system , individual ORNs of a particular class  project to an identifiable glomerulus  . However , it is unknown whether each neuron contributes an equal number of synapses to the aggregate , stereotyped average or whether there is heterogeneity in synapse number at the level of individual neurons . To address this , we utilized MARCM  to label the synapses and membranes of individual  ORNs that innervate two glomeruli , DL4 and DM6 . For all clones  except the largest 7 for DL4 and 9 for DM6 , we quantified the number of Brp-Short puncta and the volume of the mCD8-GFP-labeled neurites as above  , and plotted the distribution of puncta number across all clones in histograms . For both DL4  and DM6  , we observed that as clone size increased , the number of Brp-Short puncta appeared to increase in discrete steps of a similar size , suggesting that each individual neuron contributes an equal number of synapses to the glomerular average . Representative high magnification confocal stacks of small clones of DL4 ORNs  and DM6 ORNs  expressing Brp-Short-mStraw  and mCD8-GFP  . Frequency histogram of Brp-Short puncta in DL4 clones  . Frequency histogram of Brp-Short puncta in DM6 clones  . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta from identified single neuron clones to DL4  or DM6  . Representative high magnification confocal stacks of single cell clones of DL4 ORNs  and DM6 ORNs  and large clones of DL4 ORNs  and DM6 ORNs  expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and mCD8-GFP and stained for antibodies against mStraw  , GFP  , and N-Cadherin  . 010 To statistically analyze the distributions for DL4 and DM6 ORNs , we determined their best-fit relationships using the first four peaks for both data sets , which had the most observations . These ‘quantum’ values are consistent with the ‘step size’ of Brp-Short puncta measured in clones with increasing size  . Further , in comparing DL4 and DM6 , the difference in the number of puncta per single cell clone  is consistent with the numerical relationship between the aggregate glomerular averages  . All observed clones also displayed a nearly identical synaptic density  regardless of their size , consistent with measurements in whole glomeruli . In all , this approach demonstrates that the peaks have equal spacing in between , further supporting our assertion that each ORN contributes an equivalent number of active zones to the aggregate and that each class of ORNs has a characteristic ‘step size’ consistent with its aggregate average . Brp-Short allowed us to examine the spatial organization of active zones of any specific neuronal class within individual glomeruli . As an approximation of the complement of active zones for the DA1 glomerulus , we examined its component ORNs , PNs , and LNs . Using GAL4 drivers for the ORNs  , PNs  , and an LN line that includes most ipsilateral LNs  , all of which innervate the DA1 glomerulus , we examined the localization of their synapses . For all classes , Brp-Short puncta colocalized with endogenous Brp staining  recognized by an antibody whose epitope is not contained within Brp-Short  , demonstrating that Brp-Short recognizes endogenous active zones . These three classes of neurons , when combined , provide 3342 ± 99 Brp-Short puncta per glomerulus . When the endogenous number of active zones is quantified using an antibody to endogenous Brp using the same image-processing strategy , DA1 contains 3849 ± 80 active zones  . This suggests that the majority of synapses in the DA1 glomerulus are indeed made by Or67d-GAL4+ ORNs , Mz19-GAL4+ PNs , and NP3056-GAL4+ LNs; the discrepancy may be contributed by synapses made by additional neurons , such as other classes of local interneurons  , atypical projection neurons  , or potentially peptidergic neurons  , or may represent a slight underestimation by the Brp-Short assay . Using single optical sections within the DA1 glomerulus , we observed two levels of organization:  the location of neurites and Brp-Short puncta with respect to the glomerulus  , and  Brp-Short puncta with respect to their own neurites for each class of neurons  . Of the three classes of neurons observed , ORNs contribute the majority of the Brp-Short puncta  and were widely distributed within the glomerulus  , though with distinct voids  where the glomerulus lacked ORN neurites and Brp-Short puncta . PNs were the second major contributors of Brp-Short puncta within the glomerulus  . These connections likely synapse onto PN and LN dendrites , as shown by electrophysiology  , and are analogous to the dendrodendritic synapses between secondary dendrites of mitral cells and olfactory bulb interneurons in the vertebrate olfactory bulb  . These Brp-Short puncta showed a more even distribution throughout the glomerulus  , with smaller voids than those observed for ORNs despite reduced overall density . Finally , local interneurons  contribute the fewest Brp-Short puncta  of the three classes . The LNs accessed by the NP3056-GAL4 line make up the majority of ipsilateral LNs including most or all pan-glomerular projections  , but may not be representative of all classes of LNs . Single , high-magnification confocal optical sections through the center of the DA1 glomerulus in three animals where ORNs  , PNs  , or LNs  are expressing Brp-Short . Single , high magnification confocal optical sections through the center of the DA1 glomerulus where ORNs express Brp-Short-mStraw  and mCD8-GFP  . Brp-Short clusters  are visible , along with regions of neurite devoid of Brp-Short puncta  and voids where ORNs do not project  . Single , high magnification confocal optical sections through the center of the DA1 glomerulus where PNs are expressing Brp-Short-mStraw  and mCD8-GFP  . Regions of PN neurite without Brp-Short puncta are visible  as well as small voids lacking Brp-Short puncta and neurite projections  . Single , high magnification confocal optical sections through the center of the DA1 glomerulus where LNs are expressing Brp-Short-mStraw  and mCD8-GFP  . Brp-Short puncta are largely distributed evenly throughout neurites . Cumulative frequency histograms of the nearest neighbor distance between Brp-Short puncta in ORNs  , PNs  , and LNs  . Comparison of Brp-Short to endogenous Brp . Representative high magnification confocal z-stack of the DA1 glomerulus in animals with an Or67d-mCD8-GFP transgene to mark its borders and stained with antibodies against GFP  and endogenous Brp  . Representative high magnification confocal single sections of Or67d-positive ORNs  , Mz19-positive PNs  , and NP3056-positive LNs  innervating the DA1 glomerulus , each expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and stained with antibodies against mStraw  and endogenous Brp  . In all cases , Brp-Short-mStraw puncta are coincident with endogenous Brp puncta . Endogenous Brp puncta that are not Brp-Short-mStraw positive are likely from other neurons not expressing the Brp-Short-mStraw transgene . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta from ORNs  , PNs  , and LNs  , the sum of ORNs + PNs + LNs , and the number of endogenous Brp puncta from the DA1 glomerulus  . 012 With respect to their own neurites , Brp-Short puncta in ORNs were not evenly distributed: distinct sections of neurite lack Brp-Short puncta  while other sections had large clusters  of Brp-Short puncta  . To quantify this distribution , we conducted a nearest neighbor distance  analysis for Brp-Short puncta in each class of neurons , which has been informative in understanding spatial relationships between synapses  . We found that all three types of neurons had distinct mean NND values  : ORNs had the closest puncta and LNs the furthest with PNs falling in between the two . For ORNs , these large clusters amounted to 17% of puncta that fell within this range  . PNs lacked these large clusters , but had some smaller clusters , as well as extended regions of neuronal membrane devoid of Brp-Short puncta  . Within LN neurites , Brp-Short puncta also displayed significant clustering  . However , unlike ORNs and PNs , no extended regions of membrane were observed without synaptic puncta . This suggests a more even distribution for the remaining puncta , which is supported by the higher value for NND  and consistent with previous imaging using a synaptic vesicle marker  . Overall , these results show distinct synaptic architecture , with respect to the glomerulus and the neurites themselves , made by three different types of olfactory neurons . Moreover , distinct parameters can be defined for each class in terms of how puncta are clustered and the minimum distance between puncta . Having utilized Brp-Short to determine aspects of presynaptic organization in olfactory neurons  , we next sought to investigate the molecular mechanisms that may underlie these rules . Recently , we demonstrated that the Drosophila Teneurins , Ten-m and Ten-a , regulate synaptic partner matching in the olfactory and neuromuscular systems via homophilic interaction between elevated Teneurin levels  . Due to the similarity in partner matching mechanisms between central and peripheral nervous systems , and the fact that both Ten-a and Ten-m are expressed at basal levels in all glomeruli  , we hypothesized that the CNS may use Teneurins similarly to the PNS for synaptic organization . Specifically , we hypothesized that olfactory neurons would utilize basal levels of Ten-a and Ten-m to control synaptic number . To test this hypothesis , we used Brp-Short to quantify active zone number in Or47b-positive ORNs innervating the VA1lm glomerulus . Ten-a is expressed at a basal level in this glomerulus , and therefore does not directly affect synaptic partner matching  . Comparing wild-type  and ten-a null mutant flies  , we found that Or47b ORNs in the ten-a mutant  had 23% fewer Brp-Short puncta  . Notably , loss of ten-a did not alter ORN axon volume  , despite affecting glomerular morphology  , which is due to the loss of ten-a in neurons of the nearby DA1 glomerulus  . To ensure that changes in glomerular morphology were not related to changes in synapse number , we also examined ORNs that innervate the DL4 glomerulus  . In ten-a mutants , glomerular morphology was unchanged in 87% of animals examined , but all animals displayed a similar reduction in synapse number and density without affecting the axon volume  . Interestingly , at the NMJ , Teneurin perturbations reduced active zone and synaptic bouton numbers , but did not alter active zone density  . However , in ORNs , neurite volume was unchanged , so active zone density was reduced , suggesting a difference in the specific consequence of Teneurin perturbation in the CNS compared with the NMJ . Presynaptic Ten-a is required for proper ORN synapse number and density . Representative high-magnification confocal stacks of Brp-Short puncta in VA1lm ORNs stained with antibodies against Brp-Short-mStraw  and N-Cadherin  in control  , ten-a null mutants  and ten-a null mutants where a Ten-a transgene is expressed in this specific class of ORNs using Or47b-GAL4  . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta in the above conditions as well as following presynaptic RNAi against ten-a , presynaptic RNAi against ten-m , or in ten-a null mutants where a Ten-a transgene is expressed in 2/3 of the PNs , including those innervated by Or47b-positive ORNs . In all cases , the ten-a mutant and ten-a ORN RNAi phenotypes are statistically indistinguishable and , in the ten-a mutant , presynaptic Ten-a expression rescues the observed phenotypes . The disrupted glomerular shape is due to partner matching errors in the ten-a mutant  , which is not rescued due to the late onset of Or47b-GAL4 relative to the partner matching process . Dashed lines denote the glomeruli as delineated by Brp-Short label . Representative high-magnification confocal stacks of Brp-Short puncta in VA1lm ORNs stained with antibodies against Brp-Short-mStraw  and N-Cadherin  in control  , flies expressing ten-m RNAi in Or47b-positive ORNs  , flies expressing ten-a RNAi in Or47b-positive ORNs  , and ten-a null mutants where a Ten-a transgene is expressed in 2/3 of the PNs of the antennal lobe using GH146-QF  . ten-a phenotypes in DL4 , a glomerulus with no morphology defects . Representative high magnification confocal stacks of ORNs innervating the DL4 glomerulus in control animals expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and mCD8-GFP and stained with antibodies to mStraw  , GFP  , and N-Cadherin  . Representative high magnification confocal z-stacks of ORNs innervating the DL4 glomerulus in ten-a null mutant animals expressing Brp-Short-mStraw and mCD8-GFP and stained with antibodies to mStraw  , GFP  , and N-Cadherin  . Quantification of Brp-Short-mStraw puncta in control and ten-a mutant animals . Quantification of ORN volume in control and ten-a mutant animals . Quantification of Brp-Short-mStraw puncta density in control and ten-a mutant animals . 015 As ten-a mutants lack Ten-a in ORNs and PNs , we next sought to determine where Ten-a was required to regulate normal synapse number using tissue-specific rescue and RNAi experiments . Restoring Ten-a expression to the Or47b ORNs in the ten-a mutant  , but not to the VA1lm PNs that are innervated by Or47b ORNs , rescued the reduction in synapse number and density  . When Ten-a was restored to Or47b-positive ORNs , defects in glomerular morphology persisted despite rescue of synaptic phenotypes  , as partner matching occurs earlier than synaptogenesis  . Further consistent with a presynaptic role for Ten-a , knockdown of Ten-a in ORNs by RNAi also reduced the number and density of synapses similarly to the mutant  . Here , glomerular morphology was unaffected as VA1lm is already a ‘Ten-a low’ glomerulus and does not directly require Ten-a for partner matching . Interestingly , knockdown of ten-m in the Or47b ORNs did not result in any synaptic phenotype  , demonstrating specificity for ten-a . Thus , Ten-a is required presynaptically for proper synapse number and density , likely in a partially redundant fashion with additional molecules . Previous data and our Brp-Short analyses suggest that the assay is largely reflective of actual synapse number in neurons . However , we sought to confirm these results using a method independent of confocal microscopy or the Brp-Short label . We compared synapse number in ultrathin EM sections of wild-type and ten-a mutant flies  . Quantification of all synapses in a glomerulus  would require serial reconstruction of that entire glomerulus by EM . However , if the Brp-Short assay accurately reflects changes in synapse number following genetic perturbation , we reasoned that this should be evident in the change in the number of T-bar profiles in individual sections at the EM level . This is consistent with the results from the Brp-Short assay  , which shows a 23% reduction . The slight difference may reflect an under-report of the phenotype by our confocal-level analysis or may reflect the fact that the EM analysis does not differentiate between ORN , PN , and LN presynapses while the Brp-Short assay does . The largely similar magnitude of synapse reduction in EM and confocal studies supports the validity of the Brp-Short assay , and further substantiates that Ten-a is required for proper synapse number in the CNS . Representative transmission electron microscopy  images of active zones in control  and ten-a null mutant antennal lobes  . High magnification TEM images of active zones in ten-a mutants . Here , n = 1103 T-bar per unit perimeter measurements from three animals for control and n = 847 T-bar per unit perimeter measurements from three animals for ten-a . To determine whether Ten-a was also required in olfactory neurons for T-bar structure , we examined individual T-bar morphology in ultrathin sections of wild-type and ten-a antennal lobes . Thus , Ten-a is required not just for the normal number of active zones , but also for their proper structure in ways both consistent with and beyond that of previous studies . Specifically , ten-a may be required for the maturation of synapses , as misshapen and undivided T-bars resemble immature synapses  . To further probe the mechanism by which Teneurins regulate central synapse number and to determine whether cytoskeletal regulation is involved , we compared levels of spectrin staining in the antennal lobe between wild-type and ten-a mutant flies . We found that spectrin immunofluorescence in the antennal lobe was reduced in the ten-a mutant compared to wild-type  while N-Cadherin , a marker of synaptic neuropil , was unaffected  . Ten-a and spectrin function together for normal synapse number . Representative single confocal optical sections taken at equivalent positions of antennal lobes stained for α-spectrin and N-Cadherin in control  and ten-a mutant  adults . The disrupted morphology of the antennal lobe itself is due to partner matching errors evident in the ten-a mutant  . Representative confocal Z-stack images of the ORNs in the VA1lm glomerulus expressing Brp-Short in control animals  , or animals expressing dsRNA against α-spectrin  or β-spectrin  , and stained with antibodies against Brp-Short  and N-Cadherin  . Quantification of α-spectrin  , β-spectrin  , and N-Cadherin  immunofluorescence in control and ten-a mutants . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta in the noted genotypes . ten-a regulates spectrin levels and spectrin regulates synapse number . Representative confocal single optical sections of control  and ten-a mutant  antennal lobes stained with antibodies to β-spectrin  and N-Cadherin  . Representative high magnification confocal z-stacks of Or67d ORNs expressing Brp-Short-mStraw in control animals  and animals co-expressing dsRNA against α-spectrin  or β-spectrin  and stained with antibodies against mStraw  and N-Cadherin  . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta in the genotypes from C–E . 018 To test whether proper spectrin level is required for synapse number , we used ORN-specific knockdown of either α- or β-spectrin and measured Brp-Short puncta . In both cases  , RNAi in Or47b-positive ORNs resulted in a 17–18% reduction in Brp-Short puncta  . We observed a similar effect in another ORN class , the Or67d-positive neurons  , further supporting a role for spectrin in regulating olfactory synapse number . Moreover , the ten-a phenotype was not enhanced by concurrent RNAi knockdown of α-spectrin in ORNs  , suggesting that Ten-a and α-spectrin function in the same pathway to regulate olfactory synapse number . Therefore , critical parameters of synaptic organization within a circuit not only include the location and number of presynaptic active zones , but also postsynaptic receptor clusters . We selected the Dα7 acetylcholine receptor subunit because it is endogenously expressed in the antennal lobe  and it has been used to examine organization in the mushroom body , a higher olfactory center  . We used a GFP-tagged Dα7 transgene  under the control of the GAL4/UAS system  to visualize postsynapses in vivo . Expression of Dα7-GFP in PNs revealed distinct puncta , possibly corresponding to acetylcholine receptor  clusters  . These puncta were apposed to endogenous Brp puncta , as revealed by nc82 staining  , consistent with these puncta representing bona fide synapses . To examine AChR clusters in PNs , we co-expressed Dα7-GFP with mtdT as a general neurite label  . As such , the approach is analogous to our Brp-Short assay and yielded similar results , enabling a quantitative assessment of the number  and density  of AChR clusters . High magnification confocal z-stack images of PNs in the DA1 and VA1d glomeruli expressing Dα7-GFP and mtdT , stained with antibodies against GFP  , mtdT  , and endogenous Brp  . Representative high magnification single optical sections of Mz19-positive PNs in the DA1 glomerulus expressing Dα7-GFP and stained with antibodies against GFP  and endogenous Brp  . The majority of GFP-positive puncta are apposed to or colocalized with endogenous Brp  , consistent with their association with bona fide active zones . Brp puncta without apposition likely belong to synapses not labeled by the PN-GAL4 driver . Representative high magnification single optical sections of Mz19-positive PNs and Or67d-positive ORNs in the DA1 glomerulus expressing Dα7-GFP in the PNs and Brp-Short-mStraw in the ORNs using two binary expression systems . Most ORN active zones  are apposed to or colocalized  with PN Dα7 puncta  , further supporting that these puncta label bona fide synaptic contacts . Insets show high magnification of a single optical section where asterisks denote apposed Brp-Short::Dα7 pairs . Brp puncta without apposition likely belong to ORN synapses with neurons other than PNs and Dα7 puncta without apposition likely correspond to PN postsynaptic sites apposed to synaptic contacts from neurons other than ORNs . Quantification of Dα7 AChR puncta  and neurite volume  in the DA1 and VA1d glomeruli of both male and female adult flies . 019 As we are limited to genetically accessible PN subsets , we focused on identifying organizational parameters in the PNs that innervate the DA1 and VA1d glomeruli via the Mz19-GAL4 driver  . As with ORN presynapses , the assay revealed that the number of AChR puncta scales with glomerular size  . Further , known sex-specific differences in DA1 , as seen in glomerular volume  and in ORN synapses  , were also observed  . The differences between the Brp-Short and AChR assays for the DA1  and VA1d  glomeruli may reflect the fact that the Brp-Short assay does not distinguish ORN synapses onto PNs and LNs , and the Dα7-GFP assay does not distinguish synapses from ORNs and LNs onto PNs . As these values are less than twofold different , this is consistent with the majority of synapses labeled being ORN to PN synapses  . The similarity between the numbers of endogenous Brp and Brp-Short puncta suggests that Brp-Short is a more accurate estimator of absolute synapse number . The larger number of AChRs detected in each glomerulus may reflect an overestimation associated with full-length Dα7 overexpression or that these are postsynaptic not just to cholinergic ORNs , but also other excitatory neurons such as local interneurons  or PN-PN chemical synapses  . Calculation of AChR puncta density in PNs revealed subtle but significant differences across different glomeruli . However , these were different from AChR puncta densities in the DA1 glomerulus . There was a modest but significant difference between both male and female AChR densities in DA1 and between both DA1 AChR densities and the shared VA1d AChR density  . Unlike ORNs , where the Brp-Short density was identical across different classes of neurons , PNs can have different densities between distinct glomeruli and even between sexes for the same glomerulus . Thus , the parameters that govern presynaptic density may differ from those that govern postsynaptic density in the same glomerulus . To further examine if the Teneurins regulate postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor number and density , we utilized the Dα7-GFP assay to determine the effect of Teneurin perturbation on AChR puncta number . We examined PNs in DA1 and VA1d  and counted the AChR puncta of both glomeruli together as one measurement , as partner matching defects following Teneurin perturbation make it difficult to differentiate between the two glomeruli  . This is consistent with results from the Brp-Short assay . Moreover , PN neurite volume was unaffected  , so AChR puncta density was similarly reduced  . Thus , two independent assays , both pre- and postsynaptic , show the same phenotypes , demonstrating a clear effect of ten-a loss on synapse organization in olfactory neurons . Representative high magnification confocal z-stack images of DA1 and VA1d PNs expressing Dα7-GFP in control animals  , ten-a mutants  , or animals expressing RNAi against ten-m in the same PNs  , and stained with antibodies against GFP  and N-Cadherin  . DA1 and VA1d glomeruli are outlined together  and were determined using the accompanying mtdT label  . Due to partner matching defects in the ten-a mutant that prevent clear delineation between the two glomeruli , the combined count was compared across genotypes . 020 At the NMJ , presynaptic Ten-a functions largely in a transsynaptic , heterophilic complex with postsynaptic Ten-m to regulate synapse organization  . Ten-a functions presynaptically in ORNs to ensure proper synapse number  . As the ten-m mutant is larval lethal  , we expressed a previously validated transgenic RNAi line against ten-m  in Mz19 PNs and quantified AChR puncta number using the Dα7 assay  . As above , PN neurite volume was unaffected  , leading to a concomitant decrease in AChR puncta density that also phenocopied the ten-a phenotype  . Further , this reduction was not enhanced by knocking down ten-m in PNs of a ten-a null mutant  , suggesting that the two function in the same genetic pathway . Though genetic evidence suggests that Ten-m functions with Ten-a transsynaptically to regulate synapse number , it could conceivably regulate AChR number independently of how Ten-a regulates active zone number . Thus , we sought to more explicitly test a transsynaptic role of Ten-m in regulating proper active zone number . Due to the availability of genetic access to both the presynaptic ORNs and the postsynaptic PNs , we examined the DA1 glomerulus . Further , DA1 is a ten-m low glomerulus  , allowing us to specifically test the role of the basal level of Ten-m . Using the GAL4 and QF systems , we simultaneously labeled Or67d-positive ORNs with QUAS Brp-Short-mStraw using Or67d-QF  and expressed transgenic RNAi against ten-m in DA1 PNs using Mz19-GAL4  . Control animals displayed a similar number of Brp-Short puncta as the UAS construct  , demonstrating the validity of this reagent . Postsynaptic ten-m knockdown , however , reduced the number of presynaptic Brp-Short puncta by 20%  . This reduction is similar to the proportion by which ten-m RNAi reduced AChR number  and also to the proportion by which loss of ten-a reduced Brp-Short number  . This suggests that Ten-m is the postsynaptic partner of Ten-a in regulating presynaptic active zone number , and that the presynaptic Ten-a/postsynaptic Ten-m interaction that regulates NMJ synapses is conserved in olfactory synapses . Ten-m regulates presynaptic active zone number transsynaptically . Diagram of the antennal lobe with the DA1 glomerulus outlined showing the experimental design . Or67d-positive ORN axon terminals that innervate DA1 are outlined in black; their active zones are labeled by Or67d-QF-driven QUAS-Brp-Short-mStraw . Mz19-GAL4-positive PNs that project dendrites to DA1 express UAS-RNAi against ten-m in experimental animals . Representative high magnification confocal z-stack images of DA1 ORNs expressing Brp-Short in control animals  or in animals concurrently expressing ten-m RNAi in the DA1 and VA1d PNs  and stained with antibodies against mStraw  and N-Cadherin  . Quantification of Brp-Short puncta in the noted genotypes . Controls 1 and 2 represent Brp-Sh puncta assayed by GAL4/UAS  and QF/QUAS binary system binary system , respectively , and are not significantly different , as assayed by student's t test  . In Drosophila , previous approaches to studying central synapses used tagged synaptic vesicle proteins  to reveal putative synaptic sites . We utilized a structural active zone component , Brp  . By expressing a truncated Brp transgene , Brp-Short  , using the GAL4/UAS system , this approach can label synapses in any neurons with genetic access . Brp-Short expression requires endogenous Brp for proper localization  and does not alter function or morphology  . Recently , an elegant technique , STaR , was developed , which tags an additional , BAC-sourced copy of Brp with an epitope tag whose expression is conditional upon FLP-recombinase-mediated excision of an intervening stop codon  . An important advantage of STaR is that Brp expression is controlled by its endogenous promoter , thus guarding against mislocalization of Brp or perturbation of synaptic function due to overexpression . A caveat of Brp-Short is that it is controlled by GAL4 and thus the levels may be different from the endogenous level . While Brp-Short overexpression does not interfere with synaptic function , care must be taken not to overexpress it to a level that saturates the active zone localization machinery when utilized in new cell types . The advantages of Brp-Short over STaR are  that it does not require a cell type-specific FLP transgene , which is not as widely available as GAL4 lines , or a BAC-bearing copy of Brp , and  that it can be co-expressed with UAS-transgenes for rescue or RNAi for perturbation experiments , although STaR can also achieve this aspect by using a cell-type-specific GAL4 and an extra UAS-FLP transgene . To examine putative postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor clusters , we use a GFP-tagged subunit , Dα7 , to study cholinergic synapses in the antennal lobe . Though false positives can be associated with full-length protein overexpression , our observation of endogenous Brp puncta apposed to these Dα7-GFP puncta suggests that these receptors are properly localized to endogenous synapses . This assay complements the Brp-Short presynaptic assay and can be adapted for other tagged postsynaptic receptor transgenes . Though considerable advances have been made in our understanding of the wiring specificity  and physiological properties  of the Drosophila olfactory circuit in the antennal lobe , little is known about its synaptic organization . Indeed , the juxtaposition of distinct types of synapses between multiple neuronal classes in the antennal lobe provides a model to study complex synaptic interactions compared to a neuromuscular synapse that features only two synaptic partners: the motoneuron and the muscle . We utilized the Brp-Short and Dα7 assays to probe how synapses in ORNs , PNs , and LNs are organized in the antennal lobe with respect to their number , density , and location . This work offers the first comprehensive information on  the number of active zones made by each ORN within a glomerulus ,  the stereotypy of synapse numbers between those individual ORNs ,  the prominence of PN presynaptic inputs within a glomerulus , suggesting a robust feedback mechanism , and  the relatively small contribution of LN active zones to the antennal lobe circuit . Our analyses suggest distinct rules that govern the synaptic organization of antennal lobe neurons . ORNs , the primary input neurons of the olfactory system , are diverse in their olfactory receptor expression , ligand specificity , and glomerular targeting specificity  ; we now show that they also differ in the absolute synapse number  . However , despite such differences , all five classes we examined  have identical synaptic densities , suggesting that this represents a general rule for other ORN classes . Indeed , our analyses indicate that each ORN makes an equivalent , discrete number of synapses within a given glomerulus with little variation  , further supporting this hypothesis . This variation can be due to technical caveats , such as Mz19-GAL4 does not label all PNs that innervate DA1 and VA1d  , or that Dα7-GFP clusters do not reflect the absolute number of AChRs . As the relative numbers still show these differences , an interesting possibility suggested by these results is that postsynaptic PN AChRs already reflect a transformed olfactory representation compared to output synapses of ORNs . The difference in PN AChR density as compared to the constant density of ORN active zones suggests that different classes of PNs may modulate how information is received by regulating the number of acetylcholine receptors . Fine-scale analysis of synapse localization within projections of ORNs , LNs , and PNs  suggested that these three types of neurons differ in their subglomerular organization . While occupying the vast majority of territory throughout the entire glomerulus , ORN processes and synapses leave distinct voids . However , there is also overlap between LN and ORN processes and synapses , consistent with physiologically characterized ORN → LN and LN → ORN synapses  . Within their respective neurites , ORNs and PNs display uneven distributions and synaptic clusters to varying degrees while active zones in LNs are more evenly distributed throughout their processes . These characterizations contribute to the growing repertoire of studies seeking to understand synaptic organization in Drosophila olfactory circuits  , adding synapse-level imaging to physiological techniques . Our data demonstrate that the Teneurins , a family of transsynaptic adhesion molecules , regulate one of these synaptic organizational paradigms: synapse number . Our approaches have now enabled such an examination , uncovering a strongly conserved synaptic organization function of the Teneurins from PNS to CNS . Here we find , as assayed by Brp-Short  , ultrastructural  , and Dα7  analyses , that Teneurins in olfactory neurons are required for normal synapse number . Teneurin perturbation also reduces synaptic density , a parameter that is highly invariable for ORNs under normal conditions  . We determined that presynaptic Ten-a in ORNs  likely functions with postsynaptic Ten-m in PNs  to regulate levels of the spectrin cytoskeleton  . The perturbation of active zone number in ORNs by knocking down ten-m in PNs further suggests that Teneurins regulate synapse number and organization in the CNS via a transsynaptic mechanism . While presynaptic ten-m has a minor role in synaptic organization at the NMJ  , our data suggests the lack of such a role in the CNS  . Mammalian Teneurins organize the visual system  and Ten-2 can serve as a ligand for Latrophilin and localize to synapses in cultured neurons  . However , as proper synaptic function is impaired in many neuropsychiatric disorders  and human Teneurin-4 is associated with increased susceptibility to bipolar disorder  , understanding how the Teneurins regulate central synapses is a question with clinical relevance . Studies in vivo will be important to determine how mammalian Teneurins regulate synaptic organization and whether the different Teneurins can have specific roles at synapses . In summary , our results demonstrate a role for the Teneurins in regulating the number of central synapses and highlight mechanistic conservation between peripheral and central synapse formation . Moreover , the fact that ORNs can be mistargeted but still have the correct number of synapses suggests that target choice and synapse organization can be biologically separable , even when they employ the same molecules . The following GAL4 driver lines were used to restrict expression to individual classes of neurons: AM29-GAL4  , Or47b-GAL4  , Or67d-GAL4  , Or88a-GAL4  , Mz19-GAL4  , Pebbled-GAL4  , LN5  -GAL4  . The following transgenes were used for labeling or genetic manipulation: UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw  , UAS-Brp-Short-EGFP  , UAS-Dα7-GFP  , UAS-3xHA-mtdT  , UAS-mCD8-GFP  , UAS-DSyd1-EGFP  , UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA  , UAS-β-spectrin-dsRNA  , UAS-Ten-a  , UAS-Brp-IR-104422  , UAS-Dcr2  , UAS-ten-a-RNAi-V32482 , UAS-ten-m-RNAi-V51173  , QUAS-mCD8-GFP  , QUAS-Ten-a  , and QUAS-Brp-Short-mStraw  . The Df  ten-a line was used as a ten-a null mutant  . Brp-D3-mStraw  was amplified by PCR from the pTWmStraw-Brp-D3 vector  using the forward primer 5ʹ-CACCATGGGAACTAGTGAC-3ʹ and the reverse primer 5ʹ-CTAGCTTACGTCACG-3ʹ with a CACC appended to the 5ʹ end of the forward primer for subcloning into the Gateway  pENTR/D-TOPO vector . Following a BP reaction to produce pENTR-Brp-Short-mStraw , this plasmid was recombined into the destination vector pQUAST-attB-Gateway  using LR clonase . The resulting pQUAST-attB-Brp-Short-mStraw vector was transformed into the ΦC31 landing site 86Fb on the third chromosome using standard methods . The following antibodies were used: rat anti-N-Cadherin  , mouse anti-Brp  , rabbit anti-dsRed  , chicken anti-GFP  , mouse anti-α-spectrin  , rabbit anti-β-spectrin  . Though deconvolution improved the visual quality of the images , it was dispensable for accurate quantification of Brp-Short or Dα7 puncta . The ‘Spots’ function was used to quantify Brp-Short or Dα7 puncta in Imaris . Where multiple glomeruli were labeled and a single glomerulus was quantified , a freehand region of interest was drawn in each section using the neuropil staining as a guideline and a 3D region extrapolated by Imaris . 6 μm for Brp-Short and 0 . Following automatic detection of puncta , the threshold was manually adjusted  with visual inspection to ensure that all puncta were identified , minimal background staining or noise was recognized , and that individual puncta were not double-counted . In male Or67d-GAL4 samples that did not express the synaptic label  , but were processed identically using primary and secondary antibodies , the number of puncta recognized by this method was <30 , suggesting that the ‘false positive’ rate was low . Density was then expressed as the number of Brp-Short puncta divided by the neurite volume . For images involving a neurite co-stain , the Brp-Short-mStraw channel was masked in Imaris so that only the puncta within the neurite were identified and counted  . For synapse contribution by individual ORNs , GraphPad Prism was used to fit individual Gaussian relationships to each separate peak for the ORN MARCM data  . In some cases , UAS-mCD8-GFP or UAS-3xHA-mtdT was included in the genotype  to ensure an equivalent number of constructs between control and mutant or rescue conditions . Figure 1:  w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-mCD8-GFP; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . DL4 and DM6 = w; AM29-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP; +; + . DA1 = w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-mCD8-GFP; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . VA1d = w , Or88a-GAL4/+ or Y; UAS-mCD8-GFP , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; +; + . VA1lm = w; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP; +; + . Figure 1—figure supplement 1:  w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; Or67d-GAL4 /UAS-DSyd1-EGFP; + . w , UAS-Dcr2; UAS-mCD8-GFP/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . w; UAS-mCD8-GFP , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-Brp-IR-v104422; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . w , pebbled-GAL4/+; +; UAS-Brp-Short-GFP/+; + . Figure 1—figure supplement 2:  w , Or88a-GAL4/+ or Y; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; +; + . w; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . w; AM29-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . Figure 2:  hsFLP122 , UAS-mCD8-GFP; AM29-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; FRT 2A/FRT2A , tubP-GAL80; + . Figure 2—figure supplement 1:  hsFLP122 , UAS-mCD8-GFP; AM29-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; FRT 2A/FRT2A , tubP-GAL80; + . Figure 3:  w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . w; Mz19-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; NP3056-GAL4/+; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-mCD8-GFP; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . w; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-mCD8-GFP/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-mCD8-GFP; NP3056-GAL4/+; + . Figure 3—figure supplement 1:  w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . w; Mz19-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP; +; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; NP3056-GAL4/+; + . Figure 4:  w; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; + . w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-Ten-a/+; + . ten-a ORN RNAi = w , UAS-Dcr2; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-ten-a-IR-v32482/+; + . ten-a + Ten-a ORN as in C . ten-m ORN RNAi = w , UAS-Dcr2; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-ten-m-RNAi-V51173/+; + . ten-a + Ten-a PN = w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; GH146-QF , QUAS-mCD8-GFP/QUAS-Ten-a; + . Figure 4—figure supplement 1:  w; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; + . w , UAS-Dcr2; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-ten-m-RNAi-V51173/+; + . w , UAS-Dcr2; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; UAS-ten-a-IR-v32482/+; + . w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; GH146-QF , QUAS-mCD8-GFP/QUAS-Ten-a; + . Figure 4—figure supplement 2:  w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP/AM29-GAL4; +; + . w , Df  ten-a; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP/AM29-GAL4; +; + . w; Or47b-GAL4 , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-mCD8-GFP; UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; + . w; Or47b-GAL4 , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA; UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA/+; + . w; Or47b-GAL4 , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-β-spectrin-dsRNA; UAS-β-spectrin-dsRNA/+; + . Control as in  , α-spec ORN RNAi as in  , β-spec ORN RNAi as in  , ten-a = w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4/UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; +; + . ten-a + α-spec RNAi = w , Df  ten-a; Or47b-GAL4 , UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA; UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA/+; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw , UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; Or67d-GAL4  , UAS-mCD8-GFP/+; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA; Or67d-GAL4 /UAS-α-spectrin-dsRNA; + . w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-β-spectrin-dsRNA; Or67d-GAL4 /UAS-β-spectrin-dsRNA; + . Figure 7:  w; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-3xHA-mtdT/+; UAS-Dα7-EGFP/+; + . w; Mz19-GAL4/+; UAS-Dα7-GFP/+; + . w , Or67d-QF; Mz19-GAL4/+; UAS-Dα7-GFP/QUAS-Brp-Short-mStraw; + . Figure 8:  w , UAS-Dcr2; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-3xHA-mtdT/+; UAS-Dα7-GFP/+; + . w , Df  ten-a; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-3xHA-mtdT/+; UAS-Dα7-GFP/+; + . w , UAS-Dcr2; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-3xHA-mtdT/+ , UAS-Dα7-GFP/UAS-ten-m-IR; + . ten-a −/− + ten-m PN RNAi = w , Df  ten-a; Mz19-GAL4 , UAS-3xHA-mtdT/UAS-Dcr2; UAS-Dα7-GFP/UAS-ten-m-IR; + . Figure 9:  w , Or67d-QF; +; QUAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; + . w , Or67d-QF; Mz19-GAL4/+; QUAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/UAS-ten-m-RNAi-V51173; + . Control  = w; UAS-Brp-Short-mStraw/+; Or67d-GAL4 /+; + . "
"The contribution of sensory and decisional processes to perceptual decision making is still unclear , even in simple perceptual tasks . When decision makers need to select an action from a set of balanced alternatives , any tendency to choose one alternative more often—choice bias—is consistent with a bias in the sensory evidence , but also with a preference to select that alternative independently of the sensory evidence . To decouple sensory from decisional biases , here we asked humans to perform a simple perceptual discrimination task with two symmetric alternatives under two different task instructions . We found that from 32 participants , 30 exhibited sensory biases and 15 decisional biases . Perceptual decision making , thus , even in simple scenarios , is affected by sensory and decisional choice biases . This situation exemplifies a major problem in the study of perception: perceptual decisions not only depend on the sensory evidence , but also on decisional components  . When a decision maker needs to select an action from a set of alternatives , the tendency to choose one alternative over the others is known as choice bias  . Choice biases occur in perceptual tasks even in simple scenarios like the one described above , in which the stimuli carry similar levels of signal relative to a neutral point  . Choice biases are extensively studied in relation to how current decisions are influenced by previous decisions , what is known as choice history biases  . Whether choice history biases reflect a bias in the sensory evidence or in the decision process is under debate  . Unlike choice history biases , some choice biases are related to the overall idiosyncratic tendency to choose one alternative over the others , not conditioned by the previous choices . The existence of these biases is acknowledged  and they are included in current models of perceptual decision making  , but whether they reflect sensory or decisional processes has not been , to our knowledge , assessed  . The problem to identify their origin is that , in standard perceptual paradigms , the tendency to choose one alternative more often is consistent with a biased sensory representation , but also with a bias in the decision process  . Here , to disentangle the contribution of sensory and decisional processes to global choice bias , we measured choice behavior in a simple common perceptual discrimination task with two symmetric alternatives , but under two different task instructions . On a given trial of the symmetric task  a grating with orientation θi that could be clockwise or counterclockwise , is presented and the participant decides whether its orientation is consistent with clockwise acw or counterclockwise accw orientation . A simple standard signal detection theory  model assumes that:  the sensory evidence s associated to the stimulus is a random variable normally distributed with variance σ2 centered on μcw when θi is clockwise and centered on μccw when θi is counterclockwise;  to make choices , the participant sets a criterion β , computes the log likelihood ratio log⁡Λ of s under the hypothesis that μ=μcw and the hypothesis that μ=μccw  log⁡Λ  =log⁡ ( p  p  ) =log⁡ (  −1/2e−  22σ2  −1/2e−  22σ2 ) and chooses the action acw when log⁡Λ  >β . If the orientation of the grating can take M different values , each value is presented n times and ki is the number of times that the participant pressed the down key  , then the probability density function that defines statistical model for these trials is  f  =∏i=1M  Φ ( θi−  σ ) ki ( 1−Φ ( θi−  σ ) ) n−ki Given that f depends on δD−δS , it is not possible to distinguish sensory from decisional biases  . A criterion c associated to a bias to choose responses consistent with clockwise orientation for the right reference corresponds to a criterion −c for the left reference . Importantly , including a lapse rate parameter λ∗ placed on the right asymptote for the right reference  λ1+λ∗+  ΦRand placed on the left asymptote for the left reference  λ2+  ΦLdid not improve significantly the fit for any group , which indicates that decisional biases cannot be explained by a tendency of participants to select one alternative completely independently of the sensory evidence . Perceptual tasks with two symmetric alternatives have been also modeled using a high threshold model , called the indecision model  . We fitted this model to the 19 groups with significant decisional biases and found that for all of them  the SDT model was better using the Akaike information criterion  . We showed that , in a simple discrimination task with two symmetric alternatives , most people exhibit idiosyncratic global choice biases . Changing the stimulus-response mapping and testing a task with two asymmetric alternatives , we found that these biases reflect biases in the sensory evidence and in the decisional process . Specifically , about half of the participants showed biases consistent with only a sensory origin and about half of the participant biases with a contribution of sensory and decisional biases . We also found that a very few participants exhibited biases consistent with only a decisional origin . Across participants , the magnitude of the sensory bias was about three times as larger as the magnitude of the decisional bias . Our findings suggest that if a person has a bias to report that a perfectly horizontal canvas is tilted towards a given direction , it is likely that the largest contribution to the bias has a sensory origin . An SDT model , in which the sensory biases were included as an intercept term in a linear transduction of the stimuli  and decisional biases correspond to a shift in the criterion , fitted well the choice behavior of the participants . A model in which participants have a tendency to choose one alternative independently of the magnitude of the sensory evidence did not fit well the data; it rather predicts an asymmetry on the lapse rate across locations of the reference that was not observed . Finally , a model  in which participants guess when the sensory evidence lies within some uncertainty range was not parsimonious: first , to fit the data for the participants with pure sensory biases , the model needs that participants , when uncertain , guess the two alternatives equally often; second , for the participants with decisional biases , we found that the SDT model provided a better fit . Perceptual discrimination with two symmetric alternatives are often regarded as Type 1 tasks , tasks for which the responses could be designated as correct or incorrect  . Our results suggest , thus , that perceptual discrimination tasks with two symmetric alternatives might be better regarded as Type 2 tasks , tasks for which there are not correct and incorrect responses  . Discrimination tasks with two symmetric alternatives are commonly used to assess how perception is affected by contextual cues  , but in some scenarios it is unclear whether the context influences perception or biases decisions  . Our results indicate that , even when the symmetry of the task is not broken by the context , half of the participants exhibit decisional biases . This suggests that to reliably estimate sensory biases in the presence of contextual cues , it might be better to use manipulations of the stimulus-response mapping like the one that we used or tasks for which the potential contribution of decisional biases is reduced or eliminated  . The perceptual discrimination task with two symmetric alternatives that we have used is also known as the method of single stimuli  In this method , the decision-maker is asked to categorize the signal presented against an internal absolute reference that corresponds to a natural neutral point that the decision-maker possibly has learnt during her life  —verticality or horizontality in our case . In the non-symmetric version of this task , the Yes-No task  , the decision-maker decides , for example , whether a dim light is present or absent . Another popular task to assess perception is the two alternative forced choice task  . In this task , two stimuli are presented in a random order—for example , a vertical grating and a grating slightly tilted clockwise—and the decision-maker decides in which interval the grating was more tilted clockwise . This task assesses the precision to discriminate similar orientations , but cannot measure sensory biases from verticality: a bias of the decision-maker to perceive orientations clockwise will affect the stimuli presented in the two intervals in the same direction without affecting the selection of the interval with the more tilted stimulus . As we found evidence that the sensory biases were consistent with a global perceptual rotation , if participants were performing judgments of relative orientation between the stimulus and the reference—instead of judgments of absolute orientation—then sensory biases should not be expected , as both the stimulus and the reference should be biased in the same direction . We found a good agreement between the sensory biases estimated from the symmetric and the asymmetric task . We also found a good agreement between tasks when the biases were estimated taking into account only one localization of the reference , and thus for which it was not possible to assess the contribution of sensory and decisional biases  . This is expected given the large contribution of sensory biases to the total magnitude of the biases . It has been shown that the biases estimated from these two tasks do not agree  , which suggests that decision making for time perception might be more affected by decisional biases  . "
"Efficient mitochondrial function is required in tissues with high energy demand such as the heart , and mitochondrial dysfunction is associated with cardiovascular disease . Expression of mitochondrial proteins is tightly regulated in response to internal and external stimuli . Here we identify a novel mechanism regulating mitochondrial content and function , through BUD23-dependent ribosome generation . BUD23 was required for ribosome maturation , normal 18S/28S stoichiometry and modulated the translation of mitochondrial transcripts in human A549 cells . Deletion of Bud23 in murine cardiomyocytes reduced mitochondrial content and function , leading to severe cardiomyopathy and death . We discovered that BUD23 selectively promotes ribosomal interaction with low GC-content 5’UTRs . Taken together we identify a critical role for BUD23 in bioenergetics gene expression , by promoting efficient translation of mRNA transcripts with low 5’UTR GC content . BUD23 emerges as essential to mouse development , and to postnatal cardiac function . Protein synthesis is the most energetically-demanding process for a cell to perform and , therefore , mRNA translation is closely coupled to mitochondrial function  . The human mitochondrial genome contains only 37 genes , of which 13 are subunits of respiratory complexes , 22 encode mitochondrial tRNAs , and a further two encode rRNA . Whilst the mitochondrion translates the 13 protein-coding genes of its own genome using a bespoke mitochondrial apparatus , the majority of the genes required for a functional mitochondrion are encoded in the cell nuclear genome and are , therefore , dependent on the cytosolic translational apparatus . This relationship implies a fundamental role for the eukaryotic 80S ribosome in control of mitochondrial abundance and function . Indeed , mitochondrial content and function varies between tissues and cell-types , as well as within a tissue , in response to external and internal stimuli including energy demand , oxidative stress and cellular signals  . Mitochondrial dysfunction has been linked to a wide range of cardiac disorders , often due to the aberrant production of ROS , and attendant cell death  . BUD23  was initially identified as a putative methyltransferase implicated in tumour metastases  . Its expression is responsive to diverse inflammatory and cancer pathologies  , and reduction of BUD23 expression can affect cellular response to glucocorticoid and alter histone methylation  . However , BUD23 actions were diverse , and a unifying mechanism of action was elusive . More recent studies identified ribosomal RNA as the preferred substrate of BUD23  . There is little understanding of the physiological role of BUD23 in a mammalian context although it is one of the genes deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome  . BUD23 is a ribosomal RNA methyltransferase which imparts a methyl mark on a key guanosine residue  located between the E and P site of the small ribosomal subunit that has been mapped to residue G1575 of yeast 18S rRNA and G1639 of human 18S rRNA  . BUD23 protein is found in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm  , and its depletion leads to a nuclear accumulation of 18SE-pre-RNA  . In both yeast and human cells the methyltransferase catalytic activity of BUD23 is not required for the processing of 18S pre-RNA , or the synthesis of 40S subunits , indicating that BUD23 has an additional role , distinct from its methyltransferase activity  . BUD23 stability requires interaction with TRMT112  , an obligate binding partner , which is known to stabilise four client methyltransferase enzymes , all involved in the generation of the translational apparatus  . The binding of TRMT112 with these four methyltransferases is competitive , which results in tight regulation of BUD23 protein concentration and enzymatic function at the level of protein stability . Here we identify a novel mechanism linking the energy-demanding process of protein translation to mitochondrial dynamics through BUD23 . We examine the role of BUD23 in ribosome function and discover that BUD23 preferentially promotes the selection of mRNA species with low GC-content 5’UTRs . We also identify a role for BUD23 in mitochondrial transcript translation which impacts mitochondrial function in vitro . We go on to examine the role of BUD23 in a murine in vivo system and discover that the production of mitochondrial proteins is dependent on BUD23 . Finally , we examine the role of BUD23 in the mitochondrially-rich and energetically-demanding cardiac tissue and discover a cardiomyopathy phenotype leading to premature death . These discoveries identify BUD23 as essential for mammalian mitochondrial function , with implications for human mitochondrial disease and cardiomyopathy . We previously identified pleiotropic actions of BUD23 in airway epithelial cells , and attributed these to an epigenetic effect  . The discovery that BUD23 modifies ribosomal RNA rather than histone proteins prompted re-examination of the BUD23 role in physiology . To identify candidate pathways affected by BUD23 we depleted expression in human airway epithelial cells  . This intervention caused a small but statistically significant decrease in cell proliferation  , which is similar to the anti-proliferative effects caused by BUD23 deletion in yeast  . To investigate comprehensively the role of BUD23 in ribosome function we performed polysome profiling . The 48 hr knockdown of BUD23 resulted in a reduction of the 40S subunit peak , and a concomitant increase in the 60/80S peak  . There was , however , little change in the profile of the polysome fractions at this early time-point following transient BUD23 knockdown , allowing us to investigate the changes in mRNA substrate selection in the intact polysomes . To test the global efficiency of the translational apparatus in cells lacking BUD23 , we used 35-S-methionine incorporation for 1 hr  . In order to determine if BUD23-loss differentially impacted the translation of a specific subset of mRNAs , we profiled the translational efficiency  of individual mRNA species within the polysome profiles . This revealed that the most efficiently translated transcripts in the control samples  , were most significantly reduced in the BUD23 knockdown condition . There were 650 transcripts with a TE ratio <-1 and 95 transcripts where the TE ratio >1 after BUD23 depletion; indicating the marked loss of high efficiency mRNA translation . The 650 transcripts for which TE was reduced  constituted a highly connected network , with a significantly higher number of protein-protein interactions than would be expected from a random dataset of similar size , and an interaction analysis  enrichment p-value<1e−16 . In fact , all mitochondrial transcripts had a negative change in TE after BUD23 loss , with approximately 50% reduction in TE . To investigate the mechanism underlying the BUD23 dependent selection of transcripts we examined specific mRNA features associated with translational efficiency . Given the known influence of 5’UTR features on translation efficiency , we reasoned that specific features of the 5’UTR may be particularly important for BUD23 action . This identifies an intersection between mRNA transcript 5’UTR GC content and BUD23 ribosome maturation . There was no difference in the distribution of 5’UTR GC in mitochondrial-related transcripts relative to all transcripts detected in the polysome analysis  . Our studies reveal the consequences for the ribosome of BUD23 action and point to an impact on the cellular proteome . Therefore , to investigate the downstream consequences of BUD23 loss we examined the cellular proteome by LC-MS/MS . BUD23 knockdown downregulated 83 proteins and upregulated 64 , out of a total of 3255 identified  . When tested using PANTHER GO cellular component ontology analysis , upregulated proteins were over-represented for components of the large ribosomal subunit  , whilst downregulated proteins were over-represented for components of the small ribosomal subunit  ,  . This imbalance in the relative abundance of ribosomal proteins , recapitulates the observation in the polysome profiles and confirms a major role for BUD23 in the maturation of the protein translation apparatus of the cell . Interestingly , TRMT112 protein , an obligate partner for BUD23 , was also significantly down-regulated with BUD23 knock-down , which may indicate a reciprocal stabilising interaction . Ontology analysis of the proteomics dataset was used to predict the functional consequences of BUD23 reduction  . Analysis of the down-regulated proteins again showed a statistically significant over-representation for proteins associated with GO biological terms including ‘translation’ , as well as ‘rRNA metabolic process’ and ‘protein metabolic process’ which support a major effect on the translational apparatus  . Unexpectedly , there was also over-representation within the down-regulated proteins for the terms ‘Mitochondrion organization’ and ‘Cellular component biogenesis’ , suggesting a consequential impact on mitochondrial function , a major destination for new protein synthesis in the cell . Because the TE of mitochondrial transcripts was down-regulated and mitochondrial organisation emerged from the proteome analysis , specific assays of mitochondrial activity were performed . Depletion of BUD23 with any of three , independent siRNAs resulted in a > 50% reduction in oxidative phosphorylation  and around a 25% reduction in Electron Transfer Capacity   but no observable difference in leak respiration  , relative to control  . We also observed a reduction in mitochondrial mRNA abundance with BUD23 knockdown , but no change in mitochondrial genome copy number , implying a functional defect , rather than loss of mitochondrial mass  , although these measurements were performed soon after siRNA knockdown , and so a later impact on mitochondrial mass resulting from prolonged BUD23 loss cannot be excluded . To examine whether this mitochondrial transcription defect was specific to BUD23 deficiency , or part of a more general mechanism resulting from 40S/60S imbalance , we performed siRNA-mediated knockdowns of other known ribosome biogenesis factors , LTV1 and RIOK2 , as well as the ribosomal small subunit protein RPS27A   . Depletion of LTV1 , RIOK2 and RPS27A all resulted in significant decrease in 18S/28S ratio relative to control siRNA , indicating a similar 40S/60S imbalance as observed with BUD23 knockdown  . LTV1 knockdown resulted in a similar decrease in mitochondrial transcript expression as observed in BUD23 knockdown  . However , RPS27A and RIOK2 knockdown-induced ribosome imbalance did not affect mitochondrial transcript expression  . To check that BUD23 was not regulating mitochondria directly , we blotted for the protein after sub-cellular fractionation . BUD23 was found to be abundant in the cytosolic fraction but was not detected in the mitochondrial fraction after proteinase K digestion  . This suggests the mechanism of BUD23 action does not occur within the mitochondria . Furthermore , TRMT112 , the obligate BUD23 binding partner , was also abundant in the cytosol , but barely detectable within mitochondria  . Together these data indicate that BUD23-dependent mitochondrial regulation is likely to be a downstream consequence of effects on ribosome composition , function , and cellular protein repertoire , rather than a direct effect of BUD23 protein within the mitochondria . To investigate the physiological impact of BUD23 we generated Bud23 null mice . We introduced a frameshift deletion within the Bud23 gene , which resulted in a null allele  . Out of 74 pups born , 39 were found to be wild-type for the Bud23 gene , 35 were heterozygous , and zero were homozygous for the null allele  , indicating embryonic lethality in Bud23-null mice . This is in contrast to reports in yeast where BUD23 was shown to be non-essential for life  . 5 and detected Mendelian ratios of wild-type , and heterozygous animals , but again no homozygous null embryos were seen  , suggesting total Bud23 loss is incompatible with embryogenesis , but haploinsufficiency results in fetal death later in development . There was also no significant change in energy expenditure or respiratory exchange ratio in Bud23+/- mice relative to WT littermate controls  , suggesting compensatory mechanisms to permit survival . To circumvent embryonic lethality , we generated a floxed Bud23 allele mouse , allowing post-natal tissue-specific KO  . Mice homozygous for this floxed Bud23  allele showed no observable differences from wild-type littermates . To confirm the embryonic lethality phenotype using an independent genetic approach , we crossed these mice with a Cre-deleter mouse line   to globally delete Bud23 alleles . Bud23+/- heterozygous crosses also failed to generate any homozygous null offspring  , confirming the observation in the global knockout mouse line  . We targeted Bud23 disruption to skeletal and cardiac muscle using Muscle Creatine Kinase  -cre as the driver  . Cardiac muscle relies heavily on mitochondrial production of ATP in post-natal life , but less so during development , so offering us the chance to analyse BUD23 impact on a highly mitochondrially-dependent tissue . Bud23fl/fl Mck-Cre+/- mice exhibited Cre-mediated deletion of exon 7 of the Bud23 gene in cardiac tissue , with a consequent reduction in BUD23 protein levels  . Loss of BUD23 in cardiac muscle resulted in sudden death between the age of 28–35 days  . Littermate control mice expressing Bud23fl/flMck-Cre-/- or Bud23fl/wt Mck-Cre+/-  were viable , fertile and did not die prematurely  . Proteomic analysis of cardiac tissue recovered from 26 day old Bud23fl/flMck-Cre+/- mice and littermate controls  revealed a significant decrease in protein content per cell with loss of BUD23  , with clear separation by genotype  . When detected proteins were annotated by sub-cellular compartment , mitochondria were found to be subject to the largest loss of protein content , with small reciprocal increases in the other compartments  , again identifying mitochondria as especially sensitive to BUD23 action . Of the 2047 proteins identified by mass spectroscopy , 347 were found to be significantly up-regulated and 442 were found to be significantly down-regulated in the BUD23 deficient condition  . Whilst an approximately equivalent number of down and up regulated proteins was identified globally , when this list was refined to mitochondrial proteins only 20 were up-regulated compared to 220 down-regulated   . Whilst correlation between change in protein abundance in BUD23-deficient heart tissue and change in mRNA TE of the corresponding transcripts in the BUD23 siRNA treated A549 cells was poor overall  , it is striking that mitochondria are affected to a great extent in both models . These observations show a strong selectivity for impaired expression of mitochondrial proteins as a result of BUD23 deficiency . Within the set of mitochondrial proteins , we found that electron transport chain complexes I , IV and V  were most strongly reduced in response to loss of BUD23  . Furthermore , ontology analysis of all the significantly down-regulated proteins identified three main clusters of proteins: mitochondrial proteins , mitochondrial ribosomal proteins and proteins involved in energy metabolism , indicating a functional mechanism linking between the BUD23 dependent ribosomal defect , through reduced mitochondrial protein expression to result in disruption of energy metabolic pathways  . Therefore , BUD23 actions on the ribosome result in down-regulation of core mitochondrial proteins involved in ATP synthesis . Given the observation of preferential dysregulation of mitochondrial proteins , we hypothesised that mitochondrial function was likely to be compromised in BUD23-deficient cardiac tissue . Mitochondrial DNA copy number was reduced in BUD23 deficient cardiac tissue  . Functional analysis of mitochondrial function in cardiac homogenates using the Oroboros microrespirometer system revealed that mitochondrial OXPHOS and ETC were both significantly reduced in mice deficient for BUD23 , while LEAK respiration was unaffected  . The reduction in OXPHOS led to a lower respiratory control ratio  indicating that mitochondria from mice deficient for BUD23 were less efficient at producing ATP . In addition to reduced mitochondrial capacity , mice deficient for BUD23 had lower citrate synthase activity , indicating a reduction in cardiac mitochondrial density  , which accords with the measured loss of mitochondrial genome copy number  . To test whether haplo-insufficiency of BUD23 protein was enough to impair mitochondrial function we also tested heart homogenates from Bud23+/- mice . These were found to have no significant difference in mitochondrial respiratory capacity across any mitochondrial state  , whether normalised to citrate synthase activity or protein content  . It was , however , noted that , compared to wild-types , Bud23+/- mice did exhibit significantly higher citrate synthase activities , indicating greater mitochondrial density . This may result from increased mitochondrial biogenesis to compensate for defective oxidative phosphorylation function and may partly explain the reduced viability in Bud23+/- mice . Interestingly , the impact of BUD23 loss on mitochondrial function appears to be sexually-dimorphic . When mitochondrial respiration was normalised to citrate synthase , male heterozygous  mice exhibited a deficiency in OXPHOS and ETS relative to wildtype , whereas female mice did not  . This observation indicates a more severe phenotype in BUD23 deficient males , with further derangement of individual components of the electron transport chain . Electron microscopy  analysis revealed that despite decreased mitochondrial protein abundance and reduced mitochondrial function in the BUD23 cardiac tissue , the individual mitochondria appear to be formed normally with an equivalent number of cristae compared to the wildtype . The intermyofibrillar mitochondria were typically arranged in a highly ordered pattern in the wildtype cardiac tissue , however , there was marked disorganisation in the BUD23-deficient cardiac tissue  . In addition , we identified the presence of numerous spherical electron dense inclusion bodies within the mitochondria of BUD23 deficient cardiac cells  . Impaired mitochondrial function may result in overproduction of reactive oxygen species , which can trigger the apoptotic cascade and lead to cell death . Such a progression may explain the distorted and thinned ventricular walls observed in the cardiac Bud23-null mice . We found induction of NRF2  , a key sentinel gene controlling cellular responses to reactive oxygen species stress , which led us to measure reactive oxygen species directly , and found that these were significantly higher in hearts lacking BUD23 expression  , identifying a burden of increased reactive oxygen species in BUD23 deficient cardiomyocytes resulting from the action of deranged mitochondria . Deficient mitochondrial generation of ATP in cardiac tissue is a key cause of cardiomyopathy . Given the strong mitochondrial deficiencies observed in BUD23-deficient cardiac tissue , we predicted that the cardiomyopathy was the likely cause of sudden death . Histological examination of hearts from Bud23fl/fl Mck-Cre+/-  mice showed significant enlargement , ventricle dilatation and decreased ventricle wall thickness compared to littermate controls at 26 days old  . Littermate control mice expressing Bud23fl/flMck-Cre-/- or Bud23fl/wt Mck-Cre+/-  were viable , fertile and did not die prematurely  . Echocardiogram analysis of Bud23fl/fl Mck-Cre+/-mice at 26–28 days old showed that cardiac BUD23-deficiency resulted in systolic dysfunction indicated by significantly dilated left ventricle  , as well as significantly decreased fractional shortening and relative wall thickness  . ) Taken together , these observations indicate that Bud23fl/fl Mck-Cre+/- mice exhibit the early stages of heart failure around 26–28 days of age . BUD23 is tightly conserved through evolution and has recently emerged as a ribosomal RNA methyltransferase , although its physiological role in mammals is unexplored . We now identify BUD23 as playing a major role in regulating the translational efficiency of specific transcripts through its role in ribosome maturation . Indeed , translation of low 5’UTR GC-content mRNA species were particularly dependent on BUD23 expression , in contrast to the picture seen with simple ribosome deficiency in which transcripts with short/unstructured 5’UTRs were seen to be most affected  . Furthermore , we identified a surprising role for BUD23 in maintaining mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation capacity . As protein translation is tightly coupled to ATP demand this raised the possibility that BUD23-dependent ribosomal maturation is critical to link the two processes in living cells and tissues  . Indeed , BUD23 loss greatly impaired mitochondrial ATP generation , both in vitro and in vivo . In mice , cardiomyocyte loss of BUD23 greatly impaired mitochondrial ATP generation leading to dilated cardiomyopathy and premature death , and global loss of BUD23 resulted in embryo-lethality . BUD23 is thought to perform two functions in the generation of the translational apparatus: firstly , in the processing of pre-18S RNA into its mature form , and secondly imparting a m7-G methyl mark on a key residue . As the catalytic activity of BUD23 is not required for efficient pre-18S RNA processing , these two functions appear to be independent of each other  . It is notable that both the BUD23 imparted m7-G methyl mark and structurally complex 5’UTRs are characteristic features of translation specific to Eukaryotes . Further work should focus on delineating the effect of BUD23-dependent 18S maturation , from the role of the methylation mark . We used proteomics to examine the relative changes in protein abundance which result from targeted loss of BUD23 in cardiomyocytes . This revealed a selective loss of mitochondrial proteins , explaining the observed reduction in mitochondrial capacity . As BUD23 appears to have no direct role within mitochondria we propose that the mitochondrial phenotype results from impaired translation of nuclear-encoded genes with a role in mitochondrial homeostasis . Indeed , we found that the translational efficiency of a number of mitochondria-targeted as well as mitochondrial regulating proteins were BUD23-dependent . Mammalian target of rapamycin  , for example , is known to regulate mitochondrial activity and biogenesis by regulation of translation  and , interestingly , BUD23 loss resulted in impaired translation of mTOR itself . Using the conditional allele mice with a muscle Cre driver we were able to profile the impact of BUD23 in a physiological role . Loss of BUD23 in heart and skeletal muscle resulted in early death from cardiac failure . Mitochondrial dysfunction frequently imposes a burden of oxidative stress on affected cells , which can result in apoptosis , thereby explaining the loss of cardiac muscle seen . Detailed ultrastructure analysis of cardiac mitochondria revealed no major loss of mitochondrial volume , but there was a striking additional feature seen within the mitochondria: electron-dense , spheroid inclusions . These were not observed in control hearts , and are not typically seen in mitochondria from individuals with mitochondrial myopathies , but have been reported before under conditions of extreme ATP demand , and to result from bilayer budding from the inner cristae , to generate additional ATP generating surface area  . Recent advances have identified differential translation of mRNA species dependent on 5’UTR features as an important control mechanism , potentially coupling global changes in protein translation with appropriate upregulation of mitochondrial ATP generation to meet demand 2 . BUD23 , a highly conserved ribosomal RNA methyltransferase which lies within a multigene interval , deleted as a cause of Williams-Beuren syndrome , plays a specific role in highly ATP-hungry cells , promoting translation of mitochondrial proteins , and impacting on oxidative phosphorylation . Complete global loss of Bud23 is embryonic lethal , and early post-natal death follows deletion of Bud23 in the heart . The cardiac phenotype is severe , with marked mitochondrial dysfunction , and evidence of compensatory changes towards glycolytic ATP generation , and adaptation to oxidative stress . Therefore , BUD23 plays a critical role in coupling protein translation to mitochondrial function , with implications for mitochondrial diseases , and cardiomyopathies . In order to conditionally KO the Bud23 gene by Cre recombinase expression we generated a transgenic mouse line with the critical exon seven flanked by LoxP sites . Exon seven has an unequal splicing phase , meaning its Cre mediated excision would lead to a frame shift and KO of the Bud23 gene . Additionally , the described CRISPR targeting strategy resulted in deletion of critical exon 7 , a global Bud23 KO line was generated from this founder animal . A549 cells were plated at 1 × 10^6 cells in a 10 cm cell culture dish and transfected with BUD23 specific or non-targeting control siRNA  using Dharmafect DF-1 according to the manufacturer’s guidelines . Two conditions were profiled , BUD23 siRNA and Control siRNA , with an n of 3 samples per condition . Live cell metabolic assays were performed on A549 cells pre-treated with either BUD23 siRNA or control siRNA using a Seahorse XFe 96 analyser  . Of the three distinct experimental preparations available  , we utilized cardiac homogenates for mitochondrial assessment  . Tissue was homogenized for 3 s in 1 s bursts with a tissue homogenizer and loaded immediately  into an Oroboros Oxygraph 2 k high resolution respirometry system  for measurement of mitochondrial respiration combined with the Fluorescence-Sensor Green of the O2k-Fluo LED2-Module for H2O2 measurement  . Secondly , LEAK respiration rate represents mitochondrial respiration that occurs in the absence of ATP generation , mainly to compensate for proton leak across the mitochondrial inner membrane . Lastly , the respiratory electron transfer-pathway capacity  is mitochondrial respiration in the noncoupled state in the presence an uncoupler; this induces maximum oxygen flux through the electron transport chain . The Respiratory Control Ratio  provides a measure of the degree of coupling between oxidation and phosphorylation , or in other words , the efficiency of mitochondrial ATP production . Rotenone was then added to achieve ETS with CII substrates and antimycin A  was given to block Complex III and measure background non-mitochondrial residual oxygen consumption  . "
"It is thought that maneuverability may be influenced by intrinsic body mass and wing morphology , and by physiological muscle capacity , but this hypothesis has not yet been evaluated because it requires tracking a large number of free flight maneuvers from known individuals . We used an automated tracking system to record flight sequences from 20 Anna's hummingbirds flying solo and in competition in a large chamber . We found that burst muscle capacity predicted most performance metrics . Hummingbirds with higher burst capacity flew with faster velocities , accelerations , and rotations , and they used more demanding complex turns . In contrast , body mass did not predict variation in maneuvering performance , and wing morphology predicted only the use of arcing turns and high centripetal accelerations . Collectively , our results indicate that burst muscle capacity is a key predictor of maneuverability . Warrick and coworkers  proposed that there are both intrinsic and facultative influences on maneuvering performance . For animals that perform powered flight , intrinsic maneuverability is defined by the physical limitations imposed by morphology  , but excess muscle capacity should allow them to facultatively overcome the costs of suboptimal morphology , achieving higher levels of performance by sacrificing efficiency . Wing morphology is defined using measures of size  and non-dimensional measures of shape  . Wing area and aspect ratio have significant and well known effects on the aerodynamics of flight in animals  , and should affect maneuvering performance . Wing morphology influences flight efficiency  , ecological roles  and competitive ability  . Because these previous studies focused on species and gender comparisons , less is known about how individual variation in wing morphology influences performance , especially with respect to maneuverability . One complication is that different wing sizes and shapes can be favored depending on the specific maneuver performed , e . Given the diversity of flight behaviors , it is unclear if the requirements for maneuvering exert strong selection on wing morphology . Aerodynamic force can be directed for performing maneuvers that require greater output than the minimum requirements for flight . Excess muscle capacity can also be used to compensate for anatomical or spatial constraints on wing movement  . Muscle output of hummingbirds has been quantified in several ways including oxygen consumption to determine metabolic input , wingbeat kinematics to estimate mechanical power output , and electromyography  to measure myoelectric input . Considering hovering flight as the point of comparison , forward flight at the fastest speeds recorded in a wind tunnel requires about 20% more metabolic  and myoelectric input  . Maximum sustained hovering performance has been studied by experimentally lowering air density to the lowest values in which birds are still able to hover . By far the most expensive flight behavior studied to date in hummingbirds is maximum load lifting , which requires 200–400% more mechanical power output  , about 200% more spatial recruitment  , and 150% more temporal recruitment   compared to hovering . Maximum load lifting is a transient behavior that uses the bird’s natural escape response to measure burst power output . Thus , it is not surprising that this assay provides the maximum muscle capacity that has been measured in hummingbirds . Studies using the load lifting assay have revealed that maximum burst muscle capacity is related to hummingbird evolutionary ecology . Altshuler and coworkers  demonstrated that ecological role is more strongly related to load lifting ability than morphological parameters such as wing loading . Altshuler  suggested that the relationship between maximum muscle capacity and competitive ability may be mediated through maneuvering performance . Unconstrained maneuvering performance of birds , including hummingbirds , has recently been quantified in the field without individual identification  . Although field studies are valuable for quantifying average species performance , individual identification and large sample sizes are required to examine sources of within-species variation . Here , we studied the free-flight maneuvering performance of Anna's hummingbirds  in a large flight chamber  . Flight maneuvers in a chamber are not expected to be the same as outdoors , and may have lower velocities and accelerations . The benefit of this approach is that a large number of measurements from the same individuals can be combined with other data to examine how variation in the observed maneuvers is influenced by individual morphology and muscle capacity . The multi-camera , automated tracking system filming two hummingbirds in the flight arena at 200 frames per second . 003 We used a high-throughput computational approach to record the flight performance of 20 individuals alone and in the presence of a competitor . Flight trajectories were parsed into a set of performance metrics based on body position and orientation . The first goal of our study was to determine if voluntary maneuvering performance is repeatable within individuals . Repeatability of maneuvering performance can arise either through a strong influence of fixed traits such as morphology and anatomy , or through other consistent influences , such as motivation . We expect that repeatable measurements will be most useful for our second goal , determining how variation in maneuverability among individuals is influenced by natural variation in morphology and muscle capacity . This also required measuring morphological traits and maximum burst performance for each individual . Our third goal was to determine how motivation state induced by the presence of a competitor influenced maneuvering performance . The first stage of analysis was estimating instantaneous velocities , accelerations , and headings from the raw tracking data  . Translational velocity and acceleration were calculated by taking the first and second derivatives of an interpolation spline fit to the body position data  . The velocities and accelerations were split into vertical and horizontal components . The body orientation vector was represented in spherical coordinates as azimuth and pitch angles . We took the first derivatives to obtain azimuth and pitch velocities . Because the video tracking system did not allow a measurement of body roll , we decided to use a global coordinate system instead of a body axis-centered coordinate system . Heading was calculated as the instantaneous direction of the horizontal translation velocity , and the heading velocity was calculated as the derivative of heading . A multi-camera , automated tracking system extracted hummingbird body position  and orientation  from solo and competitive flights . Stereotyped maneuvers were classified in each trajectory  and between one and five performance metrics were calculated from each maneuver . Maneuvers within a trajectory may be overlapping  . The effects of four different sets of smoothing parameters are presented for an arcing turn  and an upward acceleration  . The chosen smoothing parameters for body position were determined by tracking multiple dropped objects and calibrating the Z-axis acceleration to gravity . However , the level of smoothing for body orientation had minimal effect on the average yaw velocity . The upper three panels provide the position , velocity , and acceleration values . The lower three panels provide the orientation vector , orientation angle and rotation velocity values . The maneuvers extracted for this sequence are given by thick black lines below the traces . 005 We then used the velocity , acceleration , and orientation data to search for a series of ten stereotyped maneuvers that were independent of time and distance scales  . Five of the maneuvers were sequences defined by changes in translational velocity: 1 ) 3D accelerations , 2 ) horizontal accelerations , 3 ) horizontal decelerations , 4 ) vertical upward accelerations , and 5 ) vertical downward accelerations . Three maneuvers were sequences defined by changes in rotation: 6 ) pitch-up rotations , 7 ) pitch-down rotations , and 8 ) yaw turns . Two of the maneuvers were defined as turns with translational components: 9 ) arcing turns and 10 ) pitch-roll turns . These ten maneuvers are not meant to be mutually exclusive , exhaustive , or to divide the entire filming session into a set of discrete behaviors , but are instead intended to extract simple measurements that can be used as an assay for maneuvering performance . The search criteria for the maneuvers are given in Table 1 . Because we assume that a new maneuver must involve a change in velocity , the first search parameter was to find sequences bounded by velocity maxima and minima , or vice versa . We next describe the additional search parameters and the performance metrics used to quantify each maneuver . Search parameters for the ten maneuvers analyzed in the study . The definitions , units , and symbols for the 14 related performance metrics are also provided . 006ManeuverSearch parametersPerformance metricUnitsSymbol3D accelerationStart: velocity xyz minimumEnd: velocity xyz maximumDistance xyz > 25 cmMaximum velocitym/sVelmaxHorizontal accelerationStart: velocity xy minimumEnd: velocity xy maximumDistance xy > 25 cmDistance z < 10 cmMaximum acceleration xym/s2AccHormaxHorizontal decelerationStart: velocity xy maximumEnd: velocity xy minimumDistance xy > 25 cmDistance z < 10 cmMaximum deceleration xym/s2AccDecmaxVertical upwards accelerationStart: velocity z minimumEnd: velocity z maximumDistance z > 25 cmMaximum acceleration zm/s2AccVUmaxVertical downwards accelerationStart: velocity z maximumEnd: velocity z minimumDistance z > 25 cmMaximum acceleration zm/s2AccVDmaxPitch-up rotationStart: pitch minimumEnd: pitch maximumDegrees rotated > 45 degDistance xyz < 10 cmAverage pitch velocityrev/sPitchUvel , avgPitch-down rotationStart: pitch maximumEnd: pitch minimumDegrees rotated > 45 degDistance xyz < 10 cmAverage pitch velocityrev/sPitchDvel , avgYaw turnStart: velocity yaw = 0 deg/sEnd: velocity yaw = 0 deg/sDegrees rotated > 90 degPitch maximum < 75 degDistance xyz < 10 cmAverage yaw velocityrev/sYawvel , avgArcing turnStart: Δ heading velocity > 0 . 25 rev/sVelocity xy min > 50 cm/sDistance xy > 25 cmDistance z < 10 cmAverage xy velocity*radius*Centripetal acceleration*m/smm/s2Arcvel , avgArcradArccent , maxPitch roll turnStart: velocity maximumEnd: velocity maximumPitch maximum > 75 degDistance xy before velocityMin > 12 . 5 cmDistance z < 10 cmtime†degrees turned†sdegPRTtimePRTdeg*for a 25 cm segment centered at the sharpest point of the turn†for a 25 cm segment centered at the minimum velocity xyz The five translational maneuvers were defined using velocity minima and maxima , and only sequences with at least 25 cm of travel were analyzed . The 3D acceleration maneuvers started from a velocity minimum and ended with a velocity maximum . The performance metric calculated for these maneuvers was the maximum translational velocity  . The horizontal acceleration maneuvers were bounded by horizontal velocity minima and maxima , and were constrained to no more than 10 cm of vertical distance traveled . The performance metric calculated for these maneuvers was the maximum horizontal acceleration  . The horizontal deceleration maneuvers and the corresponding performance metric , maximum horizontal deceleration  , were bounded by horizontal velocity maxima and minima . The vertical upward acceleration and vertical downward acceleration maneuvers were bounded by vertical velocity minima and maxima . The performance metrics calculated from these maneuvers were , respectively , maximum upward  and maximum downward  accelerations . All translational accelerations and decelerations were expressed as positive values , so that higher values represent a higher level of performance . We defined three rotational maneuvers: pitch-up rotations , pitch-down rotations , and yaw turns . These sequences were bounded by the zero-crossings of the azimuthal and pitch velocities . In contrast to translational maneuvers , which were defined by the maxima and the minima of the velocities , the rotational maneuvers begin and end with changes in rotational velocity direction . Thus , the performance metrics calculated from these rotational maneuvers were the average rotational velocities over the whole maneuver instead of maximum accelerations or decelerations . An additional constraint common to all three rotational maneuvers is that the linear distance traveled was less than 10 cm . We chose 10 cm as a general cutoff here and elsewhere because this value is close to the body length of a bird and the wing span at mid-downstroke , thus providing a good threshold for distinguishing translational motion . The pitch-up and pitch-down maneuvers were defined as having continuous pitch velocity in the upward or downward direction , respectively . Only maneuvers with a total pitch rotation greater than 45° were analyzed . From these maneuvers we calculated either the average pitch-up  or pitch-down  velocity as performance metrics . Defining yaw turns is challenging because hummingbirds fly with an upright body posture . When the body posture is near vertical , azimuthal rotation is implemented by rolling about the body axis , but when the body posture is near horizontal , azimuthal rotation is implemented by yawing the body axis . We therefore define yaw turns as azimuthal changes in direction when the body pitch angle is below 75° . From these trajectories we measured the average yaw velocity  as the performance metric . In addition to five translational and three rotational maneuvers , we also considered two maneuvers that are complex turns with translational components . Arcing turn maneuvers were defined as sequences with a heading velocity > 90°/sec , a minimum total translational velocity > 0 . From the clipped trajectory we analyzed three performance metrics , average velocity  , radius  , and the maximum centripetal acceleration  . The latter two were calculated using the following equations: Arcrad=Arcdistance traveledΔHeadingrad Arccent , max=Arcvel , avg2Arcrad Pitch-roll turn maneuvers have been described in hummingbirds and are characterized by the following sequence: a ) deceleration , b ) increase in pitch to near vertical , c ) azimuthal rotation by rolling the body , and d ) acceleration in a new direction  . These maneuvers were identified by searching for sequences of deceleration followed by acceleration with a maximum pitch > 75° . Just as we did for the yaw turns , we assume that above a pitch angle of 75° , the rotation is primarily dominated by a body axis roll , even if there may be a slight yawing component . For this reason , we maintain the established 'pitch-roll' terminology to describe these types of turns . The performance metrics for pitch-roll turns were the time taken  and the degrees turned  . Arcing turns and pitch-roll turns are two different mechanisms for generating a change in heading with no overlap in our data set by definition  . We analyzed how morphology , burst capacity , and competitor presence influenced the relative use of these two turns . The pitch-roll percent  was defined as the number of pitch-roll turns divided by total the number of arcing and pitch-roll turns extracted from each trial . A large sample of values was obtained for each maneuvering performance metric  . Figure 2 shows the distributions of trial means for all performance metrics . Wing morphology and load lifting performance of male Anna’s hummingbirds  . Descriptive statistics and sample sizes for maneuvering performance . Distributions of mean performance metric values for n = 52 bird-trial combinations . Distributions of residuals from the best-fit model for each performance metric . 010 All performance metrics based on total and horizontal linear accelerations and complex turns were highly repeatable , with >80% of the variation in these metrics attributable to differences among individuals  . The rotational performance metrics and the percent of turns that were pitch-roll turns were moderately repeatable , with 40–70% of the variation in these metrics attributable to among-individual differences . The vertical accelerations were not repeatable , as the 95% confidence intervals for repeatability of these metrics overlapped zero . Most maneuvering performance metrics are highly repeatable . 011 The best-supported models for each maneuvering performance metric are given in Table 4 . Burst muscle capacity was an important predictor for most of the maneuvering performance metrics . Birds that lifted more weight  tended to accelerate and decelerate faster , and they tended to perform maneuvers with higher velocity  . However , burst muscle capacity was not an important determinant of vertical acceleration and deceleration , as candidate models including burst performance as a predictor were not supported . Birds that lifted more weight also executed pitch-up and pitch-down maneuvers with higher rotational velocities . Burst capacity was not a strong determinant of yaw performance . Although yaw velocity was somewhat positively related to burst capacity  , candidate models of yaw velocity that included burst as a predictor were not well supported . Maneuvering performance in relation to burst performance , wing morphology , and competitor presence  . Relative importance is a measure of the weight of evidence in favor of a predictor on a scale from 0–1 , and is reported for burst capacity and wing morphology variables as these alone were subject to model selection . 012ModelSupport forFixed effectsStd beta coef Relative importanceR2GLMM  Burst+ morphology+ competitorVelmaxburstcompetitor presencemassburstwing lengthwing aspect ratioexperiment  experiment  days post-capture–0 . 36PRT% wing shape + competition+ burst + wing sizecompetitor presencemassburstwing lengthwing aspect ratioexperiment  experiment  –0 . Burst muscle capacity was associated with most maneuvering performance metrics . Each panel shows partial residuals for a performance metric  in relation to burst muscle capacity  for the most supported candidate model with burst capacity as a predictor . Prediction lines are dashed for metrics where burst performance was not present in any of the supported models . 013 Burst muscle capacity was also associated with some , but not all maneuvering performance metrics related to complex turns . Birds that lifted more weight for their wing morphology tended to execute faster , larger radius arcing turns  . However , the centripetal acceleration of arcing turns was not associated with burst capacity . Hummingbirds with higher load lifting capacity executed pitch-roll turns in less time . Burst capacity was not a strong determinant of heading change during pitch-roll turns . Lastly , birds with higher burst muscle capacity used pitch-roll turns for proportionately more of their heading changes . Wing morphology , specifically the aspect ratio , was an important predictor for two performance metrics: centripetal acceleration and the percent of direction changes that were pitch-roll turns  . Hummingbirds with long , narrow wings tended to perform arcing turns with higher centripetal accelerations , relative to birds with short , wide wings . Birds with higher aspect ratio wings also used proportionately more arcing turns than birds with low aspect ratio wings . Aspect ratio was associated with two maneuvering performance metrics . Each panel shows partial residual performance  in relation to wing aspect ratio  from a best-fit model that identified aspect ratio as an important predictor . 014 Body mass was included in candidate models 1–7 because we had anticipated that body mass would have a strong influence on variation in maneuvering performance . However , for every performance metric in Table 4 , the coefficient estimate for body mass had confidence intervals that broadly overlapped zero . We did not detect a substantial effect of competitor presence on many of the performance metrics  . Two metrics , horizontal acceleration and deceleration , were affected , but in the direction opposite to what we predicted . Specifically , birds performed maneuvers with lower acceleration  and lower deceleration  in the presence of a competitor , relative to solo flight  . One metric , pitch-down velocity  , did increase during competition as predicted  . We had no prediction for how competition would influence the relative use of pitch-roll and arcing turns , but found that birds used proportionately more arcing turns in the presence of a competitor  . Specifically , 35% of direction changes were arcing turns on average  when a competitor was present , whereas during solo flight , only 23% of direction changes were arcing turns  on average . Competitor presence was associated with four maneuvering performance metrics . Each panel shows residual performance  in relation to competitor presence from a best-fit model where competitor presence had a detected effect . We collected a large number of free flight measurements for each of 20 individual hummingbirds to examine the biomechanical determinants of maneuverability . Other studies have measured elements of maneuvering performance of hummingbirds in the field  and documented the maximum velocities , accelerations , and rotations obtained during specific maneuvers . Our values for velocity and acceleration are considerably lower than either of the field studies , likely because of cage size . However , the benefit of using a flight chamber is that it allowed us to evaluate the relative contributions of different factors to the performance we observed . We found that hummingbirds maneuvered with highly repeatable performance  . Maximum weight lifted during load lifting trials predicted most of the performance metrics that we measured , independent of a bird’s wing size and shape , such that birds with higher burst muscle capacity flew faster , had higher horizontal accelerations , faster rotations , and higher performance during complex turns  . Aspect ratio predicted only two performance metrics , such that birds with higher aspect ratio wings performed turns with higher centripetal acceleration and a greater percentage of arcing turns  . When flying in the presence of a competitor , hummingbirds used faster pitch velocities , although they used slower horizontal accelerations and decelerations . During competition trials birds also increased the proportion of arcing turns used  . Collectively , these results suggest that burst muscle capacity is a much more important predictor of flight maneuverability than within-species variation in body mass , wing morphology , and competition with conspecifics . Why were body mass and wing size not associated with maneuvering performance ? Wing morphology has well-known physical affects on flight performance: aspect ratio predicts aerodynamic efficiency , wing area is directly proportional to aerodynamic force , and wing length is a strong predictor of wingbeat frequency . All of these morphological traits , along with body mass , could affect maneuverability in flight , either individually or in combination . For example , wing loading  was initially thought to be a key predictor of hummingbird flight performance and behavioral ecology  . However , in our analysis the hypothesis that wing size and body mass together determine maneuvering performance was not supported for any performance metric  . We found it especially surprising that only wing shape  predicted maneuvering performance . It is possible that other morphological traits may determine maneuvering performance , or that subtle relationships may have gone undetected , because our analysis was limited to 20 individuals of a single species . It would be informative to expand this analysis to other species with potentially greater within-species variation in wing morphology , and to assess maneuverability across different hummingbird species with divergent morphologies . Almost all of the performance metrics were highly repeatable , which indicates a potential role for intrinsic influences of wing morphology in determining maneuverability . However , aspect ratio was the only morphological parameter that predicted performance , and only for a limited set of maneuvers . Aspect ratio is a key determinant in wing efficiency for fixed wings , such as during gliding  , and it has recently been demonstrated that higher aspect ratio wings correspond to higher power factors in the revolving wings of hummingbirds  . We found that aspect ratio had a strong effect on the few performance metrics that it predicted , but did not affect most features of maneuvering performance . This suggests a limited role for aerodynamic efficiency in many features of maneuvering . Burst muscle capacity predicted most of the performance metrics we considered , independently of any association with wing size or shape . Load lifting is measured as a transient escape maneuver that is likely anaerobic and performed inefficiently . All hummingbirds reach maximum load lifting performance at a geometric limit set by the amplitude of the wings: wing stroke amplitude cannot extend much past 180° without the two wings interfering with each other physically and aerodynamically  . Thus , maximum load lifting performance involves brief increases in muscle strain and muscle velocity to physically imposed limits . The capacity to increase muscle strain and velocity has previously been shown to influence foraging behavior and competitive ability  . The results of the current study demonstrate that it also underlies multiple features of maneuvering performance . The two performance metrics that were not repeatable are vertical accelerations and decelerations , which were expected to be important based on previous observations of hummingbird competitive interactions  and mating displays  . Moreover , vertical performance was not well predicted by morphology , burst capacity , or competitor presence in this study . We originally intended to use competition to elicit high levels of flight activity and maneuvering performance in territorial male Anna's hummingbirds  . However , we found that competitor presence affected only a small number of the maneuvering performance metrics that we measured . Pitch-down velocity increased with competition whereas horizontal acceleration and deceleration actually decreased . However , there are several possible causes for why competitor presence did not affect the other metrics: 1 ) we were unable to elicit a high level of competition or territoriality; 2 ) the birds may have worked out dominance without the aggressive interactions normally seen outdoors; and/or 3 ) the interactions required to establish dominance may have been very brief  such that they comprised only a minuscule sample of the maneuvers we analyzed . This experiment was not designed to study the effects of maneuvering performance on competitive success , although this represents an important topic for future investigation . Laboratory performance tests do not always reflect field behavior  and outdoor studies of maneuvering performance will be important for understanding the role of maneuverability in competitive interactions . The most substantial result of competitor presence was the increase in the use of arcing over pitch-roll turns . Arcing turns require less time but are used for smaller heading changes , whereas pitch-roll turns are longer but can be used to change heading by 180°  . Given that hummingbird agonistic interactions can involve direct contact and stabbing with bills  , slow turns in place could make a bird more vulnerable during competition . Arcing and pitch-roll turns are two classes of complex maneuver that differ in turn magnitude and duration . Representative examples of arcing  and pitch-roll  turns are depicted from the above perspective . Arcing turns  and pitch-roll turns  differed in the degrees turned  and elapsed time  . Histograms for the pooled dataset of all maneuvers are given on the right . The outliers for degrees turned in pitch-roll turns were included when calculating the grand means but not in the model analyses  . 016 The relative use of arcing and pitch-roll turns was the only metric in our study that was influenced by all of morphology , burst muscle capacity , and competitor presence . The minimum radius of an arcing turn is limited by the maximum centripetal acceleration that a bird can generate while maintaining lift . The speed of a pitch-roll turn is limited by the ability to decelerate and then accelerate . Birds with higher wing aspect ratio may have preferred arcing turns because they were able to generate higher centripetal accelerations . Birds with higher burst muscle capacity may have favored pitch-roll turns because they had higher accelerating and decelerating performance . These observations suggest the hypothesis that high aspect ratio and high burst capacity enhance maneuverability . This hypothesis could be evaluated by comparing hummingbird species that differ in wing shape , foraging strategy , and burst capacity  . By constraining hummingbirds to fly in a large chamber we were able to track and measure a large sample of maneuvers attributed to individuals with known morphological traits and burst performance . A major contribution of our study is the development of an assay of free flight maneuvering performance based on large numbers of stereotyped movements . Using this method , we identify several performance metrics that were highly repeatable across trials for individual hummingbirds , strongly correlated with individual morphological and physiological characteristics , and largely uninfluenced by the added motivation of a conspecific competitor . This approach to measuring maneuverability will be useful for future studies comparing maneuvering performance across different experimental manipulations , geographic ranges , or ecological , morphological , and phylogenetic groups . Before the first trial , each bird was allowed to acclimate to the flight arena and learn where the perches and the feeder were located . At this point , we recorded high-speed video of a two-hour solo trial for each bird . Following solo trials  , birds were paired and filmed for another two hours in competition trials . The birds filmed in British Columbia had one competition trial and the birds in California had two competition trials . Here , we use the mass of maximum number of beads lifted by each individual as a measure of burst performance . Immediately following load lifting , we weighed the birds and photographed both wings in an outstretched position against white paper with a reference scale  . We oriented the wing image and divided it into pixel wide strips representing the wing chords at each value of wing radius . Values for aspect ratio , wing area , and wing length were then calculated based on equations in Ellington  . We considered wing area and wing length as two potential measures of wing size , but these traits were highly correlated in our dataset  . We therefore selected wing length as the more robust measure of wing size , because unlike area , wing length is less prone to measurement error as a result of variation in feather overlap when wings are positioned for measurements . We verified that our results were consistent when using wing area instead of length , and thus these two traits should be considered interchangeable as measures of wing size in this study . Because both wing morphology and muscle capacity may influence burst performance , we used burst performance controlled statistically for wing morphology as a measure of burst muscle capacity . We used an automated tracking system to measure both body position and orientation of flying birds in three dimensions  . We adapted this system for recording hummingbird solo and competitive flight trajectories with four or five digital cameras  . To minimize the effect of errors in the 3D tracking , we used a forward/reverse non-causal Kalman filter  applied to the online state estimate of position and velocity from the realtime Kalman filter . Following establishment of the 3D trajectories , the tracking system assigned 3D body orientation vectors to each bird in each frame based on 2D estimates of the long axis of the body . Body orientation was estimated using an algorithm that fit orientations to the body axis in each 2D image . Averaging these images effectively eliminated the wings and emphasized the body . Orientation vector assignments were also smoothed with a Kalman filter using more restrictive smoothing parameters than were used to smooth body position . The process covariance matrix used for body orientation  is the same as the process covariance matrix used for body position  and the observation covariance matrix used is: Rori=0 . For each frame  , the 'cost' associated with the two possible orientations  were calculated: CostOri=Speed  +   +   Cost−Ori=Speed  +   +   where Ori→ is the body vector , Vel→mod is the modified velocity vector tipped up 15º towards the vertical direction . 5 This approach accounted for the tendency of hummingbirds to fly forwards and with an upright posture , but allowed for exceptions in the case of backwards flight , inversions , and dives , particularly if these occurred at low speeds . The magnitudes of calculated accelerations and , to a lesser extent , velocities derived from position data were influenced by the specific smoothing parameters . Examples of maneuvers with different smoothing parameters and their effects on the calculated performance metrics are given in Figure 1c and d . Thus , although acceleration values are comparable within a study , caution must be applied when comparing the magnitude of acceleration values among studies differing in camera frame rate , filming volume , calibrations , and smoothing parameters  . For our final performance metrics we used instantaneous body orientation and orientation velocity , but not orientation acceleration . In our experiments tracking hummingbird flight led to two problems in determining distinct objects . Conversely , when the bird perched at the end of a flight or in between two flights , especially if it continued to move its head or fluff its feathers , the tracking system treated the bird as moving and continued the trajectory . Birds were later identified manually by a team of digitizers who viewed the videos and assigned each object number to either the marked or unmarked bird . We accordingly removed values >5 SDs more extreme than the mean for each performance metric . We next calculated the mean of each performance metric for each bird-trial combination  . We estimated repeatability for each performance metric from an intercept-only mixed effects model that included estimates of the population intercept  as well as an individual intercept for each bird  . Because our second question involved evaluating several possible scenarios for the influence of morphology and burst performance on maneuverability , we used an information-theoretic approach to multi-model inference  . We also examined associations between burst performance , wing size , and wing shape because our load lifting assay may have incorporated effects of wing morphology as well as muscle capacity . The mass of weights lifted during load lifting was not significantly associated with wing length in our sample of 20 individuals  , however , it was negatively associated with wing aspect ratio  controlling for site . Thus in our model analyses we used residual burst performance controlling for wing aspect ratio and site as a measure of burst muscle capacity independent of a bird’s wing morphology . We considered eight candidate mixed-effects models that could plausibly explain variation in each maneuvering performance metric  . All candidate models included an individual intercept for each bird  and were fit using the nlme  package  . All models except the intercept-only model included the fixed effects of competitor presence , body mass , and experiment to account for potential effects of these factors . Candidate models of maneuvering performance . All models include an intercept as well as a random effect of bird identity to account for repeated measures of individuals . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + wing lengthWing size2 . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + wing aspect ratioWing shape3 . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + wing length + wing aspect ratioWing size & shape4 . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + weight lifted + wing lengthBurst power & wing size6 . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + weight lifted + wing aspect ratioBurst power & wing shape7 . Solo/comp + experiment + body mass + weight lifted + wing length + wing aspect ratioBurst power , wing size & shape8 . Intercept-only*Candidate models 1-7 also include a fixed effect of days post-capture for the following metrics: Velmax , AccHormax , DecHormax , Arcvel , avg , and Arccent , max Two issues arose in the preliminary examination of data . The first issue was that five of the performance metrics were significantly influenced by the number of days a bird had been in captivity . The second issue was that one of the metrics , the heading change in pitch-roll turns  , had three values that were significant outliers  . We determined that these three statistical outliers were not errors in the tracking system but were instead derived from one individual that used pitch-roll turns to make small heading changes , unlike the other birds . We omitted these outliers from the analysis of heading change in pitch-roll turns to ensure that all fitted Gaussian models met the required assumptions , with no other outliers or problems of skew or heteroskedasticity . The best-fit model for heading change in pitch-roll turns was the intercept-only model regardless of whether the outliers were included . We defined the group of supported models as those with a difference in AICc < 2 from the best-fit model for each performance metric . Our third question concerned the influence of competitor presence on the performance metrics . Positive coefficient estimates indicate that performance was higher during competitive flights , whereas negative coefficients indicate that performance was lower in the presence of a competitor . "
"coli F-ATP synthase has been generated using cryo-electron microscopy . Three different states that relate to rotation of the enzyme were observed , with the central stalk’s ε subunit in an extended autoinhibitory conformation in all three states . The Fo motor comprises of seven transmembrane helices and a decameric c-ring and invaginations on either side of the membrane indicate the entry and exit channels for protons . The proton translocating subunit contains near parallel helices inclined by ~30° to the membrane , a feature now synonymous with rotary ATPases . For the first time in this rotary ATPase subtype , the peripheral stalk is resolved over its entire length of the complex , revealing the F1 attachment points and a coiled-coil that bifurcates toward the membrane with its helices separating to embrace subunit a from two sides . In most cells , the bulk of ATP , the principal source of cellular energy , is synthesized by ATP synthase . This molecular generator couples ion flow across membranes with the addition of inorganic phosphate  to ADP thereby generating ATP  . Most bacteria , including Escherichia coli have only one type of rotary ATPase , referred to as F-type ATPase . Like the analogous complexes in other kingdoms , it is based on two reversible motors , termed F1 and Fo  , connected by central and peripheral stalks   . The Fo motor spans the membrane converting the potential energy of the proton motive force  into rotation of the central stalk that in turn drives conformational changes in the F1 catalytic sites . Schematic illustration showing the arrangement of subunits in E . coli F-ATPase . Subunits α in red , β in yellow , γ in blue , ε in green , c in grey , a in orange , b in magenta or pink , and δ in teal . The proton path and ATP synthesis are labeled accordingly . 003 The Fo motor is constructed from subunits a , b and c  . Subunit c assembles into a ring , thought , in E . coli , to have decameric stoichiometry  , whereas subunits a and b associate to form a helical bundle adjacent to this ring . Recent sub nanometer electron cryo-microscopy  reconstructions of F-type  and the analogous V- and A-type ATPases  as well as a low-resolution crystal structure of Paracoccus denitrificans F-ATPase  are consistent with a two half-channel mechanism for the generation of rotation within the membrane  . All structures confirm that a four-helix bundle of subunit a , inclined by 20–30˚ to the membrane plane , forms a crucial structural component . In this mechanism , protons from the bacterial periplasm access a conserved negatively charged carboxylate in subunit c  through an aqueous half channel at the subunit a/c interface  . Neutralizing this carboxylate enables the c-ring to rotate within the hydrophobic membrane and to access a second aqueous half channel that opens to the cytoplasm into which the protons are released  . A conserved arginine residue in helix-4 of subunit a  prevents the c-ring rotating in the opposite direction and short-circuiting of the system  . The sequential binding of protons in combination with thermal fluctuations generates rotation within the complex in a manner akin to a turbine  . The torque generated in the Fo motor is then transferred to the F1 motor by the central shaft consisting of subunits γ and ε  . The N- and C-termini of subunit γ form a curved coiled-coil that extends into the central cavity of F1 . The F1 motor is the chemical generator in which ATP is synthesized . The motor comprises a ring of three heterodimers , each containing an active site at the interface of subunits α and β . Within the F1 motor , each αβ dimer has a different conformation at any point in time and can be either empty , bound to ADP and Pi , or bound to ATP   . These different catalytic states relate to the position of the curved coiled-coil of subunit γ in the central stalk , which drives the conformational changes associated with catalysis . To enable the central stalk to rotate relative to the F1 αβ heterodimers , the Fo and F1 motors need to be coupled . This coupling is mediated by the peripheral stalk that is constructed from subunits b and δ  . Subunit b forms an amphipathic homodimeric coiled-coil that spans the periphery of the complex linking subunit a with subunit α , whereas subunit δ provides additional coupling of the C-termini of the b and α subunits  . The bacterial F-ATPase can also function in reverse , employing ATP hydrolysis to generate a proton gradient across the membrane when needed  . In vivo , subunit ε is believed to change conformation in an ATP-dependent manner to prevent rotation of the complex  thereby conserving ATP when its concentration is low . This regulatory function is mediated by the C-terminal domain of subunit ε  that , when not bound to ATP , opens to an extended conformation and inserts into the αβ heterodimers . coli and Bacillus PS3 F1 motors in this autoinhibited state show the εCTD intercalating into the αβ heterodimers  . However , in each structure , the F1 motor had been captured in a different conformation  which could either relate to inter species differences or crystal contacts and crystallization conditions . The crystal structure of the F-ATPase from P . coli  , shows a similar overall architecture to bovine F1Fo ATP synthase as well as to the main features of A/V ATPases . However , it is inhibited by the ζ-protein rather than by subunit ε , which is generally employed by bacterial F-ATPases for this purpose . Moreover , this crystal structure shows only one conformation of the rotary catalytic cycle . Here , we present three cryo-EM maps along with molecular models of E . coli F-ATPase in its autoinhibited state , determined to resolutions of 6 . In all three reconstructions , the εCTD is in an extended conformation , stabilizing an overall F1 motor conformation similar to that seen in the thermophilic Bacillus PS3 F1 ATPase structure . Density for the peripheral stalk extends the entire length of the complex and its coiled-coil bifurcates towards the N-terminus to enter the membrane as two separate helices that clamp the a subunit to the c ring . Moreover , our maps allowed us to interpret the complete F1-delta interface , showing the three α subunit N-termini in distinct orientations . Each map also confirmed the c-ring stoichiometry to be decameric , which to date has been only characterized by crosslinking and single molecule analyses . We used our maps in combination with published crosslinking and mutagenesis information to generate a molecular model of the complex in three states . These models provide crucial structural information on a key complex that extends our understanding of the mechanism of rotary ATPases in general , together with information on the bacterial ATP synthase , which is seen as an important antimicrobial target in organisms related to E . coli such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis  . coli F-ATPase , as described in Ishmukhametov et al . where all 10 cysteines were replaced with alanines and a His-tag introduced on the β subunit , was solubilized in digitonin detergent and purified as described in the Materials and methods . This procedure provided pure protein  capable of ATP hydrolysis-driven proton pumping upon reconstitution into proteoliposomes  . N , N`-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide  , a compound which selectively modifies Asp61 of subunit c at 50 µM  completely abolished proton pumping  and inhibited 90% of ATPase activity of isolated protein  . Such inhibition indicates coupling between the F1 and Fo motors  . Protein was further examined by cryo-EM without addition of nucleotides . Three different conformations of the complex were identified using 3D classification in RELION  . The particles in each subset were then refined to generate sub-nanometre reconstructions , to a resolution of 6 . In these three conformations , the central stalk was progressively rotated 120° relative to the peripheral stalk . The three states of the autoinhibited E . coli F-ATPase . Cryo-EM maps shown as surface representation , states 1 , 2 and 3 , respectively , resulting from rotation of the central stalk by 120° . Molecular models built into the cryo-EM maps shown as cartoon representation . Subunits α in red , β in yellow , γ in blue , ε in green , c in grey , a in orange , b in magenta or pink and δ in teal . coli F1Fo ATP synthase used for cryo-EM . coli F-ATPase . Inhibition of ATP-hydrolysis-driven proton pumping by F1Fo in the presence of and without 50 µM DCCD . The protein was reconstituted into proteoliposomes and assayed for ACMA quenching as described in the Materials and methods . Red arrow marks addition of ATP , blue arrows indicate addition of the uncoupler FCCP . Inhibition of ATP hydrolysis by isolated F1Fo in the presence of 50 µM DCCD . The protein was inhibited with and without 50 µM DCCD and assayed with the ATP regenerating system as described in Materials and methods . Orientation distribution of particles in the State one reconstruction . Examples of the electron density map of State 1 , to highlight strengths and weaknesses . Extra density at the N-terminus of subunit β shows 6xHis-tag . Helical register visible in the density for the peripheral stalk . β barrel of the ε subunit . Poor density for the c-ring . Local resolution map of State 1 . Slice through FO . Dashed lines show area of cross section and scale on right shows color/resolution relationship . Quality of the models built into the state one cryoEM map . The model presented is a mosaic refined model created by docking crystal , NMR , homology models and de novo built sections . Crystal structures in blue , NMR models in cyan , homology model using a crystal structure in green , modeled using other EM structure as guide in yellow and built into the map in red . coli F1Fo . CryoEM map of state one containing built model . Yellow spheres depict the positions of Cys-Ala mutants in the cysteine-free sample used . coli ,  P . Unassigned subunits of P . denitrificans shown in cyan and subunit 8 of Y . Comparison of peripheral stalk position between the three states; diagrams on left depict part of complex that each state is superposed to . Structures superposed to the a subunit . Structures superposed to the delta subunit . Arrows and triangle show distance displaced between states . FSC curves showing the effects of masking on the refined map , with the gold-standard , corrected FSC curve  , FSC of the unmasked map  , FSC of the masked map  , and FSC of the phase-randomized masked map  . 015 Even though the resolution of the reconstructions varied throughout the complex , it was sufficient to resolve individual helices . Additional density of the N-terminal His-tag of the β subunit , as well as helical and β sheet patterns observed in parts of the map in the F1 motor region illustrate the high quality of the maps , with the c-ring density being poorest  . Local resolution estimates showed the region corresponding to the F1 motor to be of highest quality , the Fo motor with moderate detail and , the detergent micelle being clearly the worst region of the map  . Docking of high-resolution crystal and NMR models of different components into the maps followed by manual building and refinement enabled virtually complete molecular models of the three different states to be built  , with varying quality of the docked structures as indicated in Figure 2—figure supplement 6 . The cryo-EM maps provided novel insights into the architecture and function of the E . coli F-ATPase . Thus , although its overall architecture was similar to that of F-ATPase from P . denitrificans  and F1Fo ATP synthases from Bos Taurus  , Yarrowia lipolytica  and Polytomella  , with the catalytic F1 motor attached to a proton powered membrane Fo motor and single central and peripheral stalks , differences in the individual motors and peripheral stalk were apparent . Comparison with the membrane-embedded motors from other sub nanometre cryo-EM maps indicated the E . coli F-ATPase had a simpler stator architecture , containing only seven helices in the a and b subunits rather than the eight seen in mitochondrial F-type ATP synthase  , consistent with labeling approaches  . This difference suggested that the extra helices present in other rotary ATPase subtypes could have additional functions such as the dimerization seen in mitochondria  . A movie generated by interpolation between the three states  indicated that the F1 motor rocks or wobbles during the catalytic cycle  as previously predicted , although of course the structures described here do not represent the complex in its uninhibited active synthesizing form . Two pivot points , one near the peripheral stalk/Fo interface   and one near the peripheral stalk/F1 interface  , enabled the stalk to accommodate this eccentric movement of F1  . Interpolation between States 1 , 3 and 2 to simulate ATP synthesis by E . coli F-ATPase . 016 The maps showed a long right-handed coiled-coil dimer generated by the two b subunits of the peripheral stalk together with the globular δ subunit that anchors them to the catalytic head  . The quality of the map was sufficient to enable almost the entire of the δ subunit to be built as a polyalanine model  , whereas previous structural information was limited to the N-terminal domain  . Interestingly , the peripheral stalk contacted all three α subunits via their N-terminal helices , but did so asymmetrically employing three different interfaces with each α subunit  . Although the resolution of the map was insufficient to assign the precise interface , the binding of the peripheral stalk to three anchor points in different geometries would provide a molecular key that would result in the δ subunit binding in a single orientation across the top of the symmetrical αβ heterodimers . The peripheral and central stalks of E . coli F-ATPase . The peripheral stalk is comprised of a globular head  and a homodimeric coiled-coil  that bifurcates at the membrane interface to brace subunit a  . The εCTD is in an extended conformation , inhibiting the enzyme from rotating . The arrow depicts the extended vs closed conformation of subunit ε . coli F1-ATPase crystal structure  into the State one cryoEM map of E . coli F-ATPase . 3oaa rigid body fitted into the cryoEM map . coli F1-ATPase shows all subunits fitting well . Stimulation of ATP hydrolase activity of isolated F1Fo by 0 . ATPase activity of the protein was registered with the ATP regenerating system as described in Materials and methods . Blue arrow marks addition of LDAO . Subunit δ and peripheral stalk attachments to the α subunits . Top panel; left , the segmented cryoEM map viewed from the side and right , viewed from above with the orientation of views 1 , 2 and 3 depicted . Bottom panel; detailed views of the three attachment points labeled 1 , 2 and 3 , with δ in teal , b in pink and magenta and α in red . 020 The b subunits formed a homodimeric coiled-coil that spaned almost the entire complex  with their N-termini bifurcating just above the membrane to generate two separate helices within the membrane  . This was unexpected , albeit reminiscent of the yeast F-type ATP synthase dimer  , where subunit eight is an evolutionary derivative of the bacterial b subunit  . coli F-ATPase b subunit  showed a helical structure that was interrupted by a rigid 20° bend at residues 23–26 that result in a structure consistent with the b subunit bifurcation . All three reconstructions showed the complex in its autoinhibited state , with clear density for the εCTD extending deep into the central cavity of the F1 enzyme  . coli α3β3γε crystal structure  into our cryo-EM maps showed that the β1 subunit had adopted a different more open conformation  . In the above crystal structure , the εCTD contacts more subunits in F1  compared to our cryo-EM reconstructions , where it contacted fewer subunits  . The conformation of our cryo-EM structure was more similar to that seen in the Bacillus PS3 structure  , where it is proposed to be in an ‘open , closed , open’ conformation  . coli F1-ATPase conformation . The αβ hetrodimers of state 1 as viewed from the membrane with the peripheral stalk to the left of the figure . The ‘open , closed , open’ conformation of the F1 motor is labeled and the positions of nucleotides are shown as blue surfaces . 021 To ascertain the enzymatic state of the F1 motor , we generated a difference density map between the cryo-EM density and our built model . Remarkably , clear peaks were seen at the nucleotide binding pockets , indicating that the non-catalytic binding sites in subunit α contained nucleotide , as well as the ‘closed’ αβ heterodimer  . These were modeled as ATP and ADP respectively based on known orientations of these nucleotides from high-resolution crystal structures . coli  or the PS3 crystal structures  . Single particle analysis revealed highly uniform homogeneity of the protein preparation , where 100% of F1Fo molecules observed demonstrated the extended conformation of εCTD . Our structural data were supported by an enzymatic assay  , where the extent of ATP hydrolysis inhibition of the protein by subunit ε was tested with N , N-dimethyldodecylamine N-oxide  , a well-known activator of the subunit ε inhibited protein . 4%  concentration has been shown to stimulate ATP hydrolysis by the E coli protein 3–4 times  , including earlier studies  on the same cysteine-free F1Fo construct using the same batch of LDAO . 75 µmol ATP/min/mg protein but surprisingly in presence of 0 . To our best knowledge , such a high LDAO stimulation of ATP hydrolysis by E . coli F1Fo was not described in the literature before and is consistent with our single particle data . Density in Fo defined the overall architecture of the membrane-embedded motor together with two invaginations of the detergent micelle that have previously been proposed to facilitate proton translocation   . While the overall density of the c-ring was relatively weak , 10 peaks of density were clearly present when viewed from above  , confirming the stoichiometry of the c-ring to be decameric in E . coli F-ATPase  . Furthermore , density inside the c-ring corroborates data suggesting it to be filled with phospholipids  . By combining the helical density from the cryo-EM maps  , with models previously suggested for the related bovine subunit , together with crosslinking data and transmembrane topography prediction for the E . coli F-ATPase  , it was possible to build a molecular model of the a subunit  . The crosslinks mapped to two clusters  , allowing a likely sequence register for the model to be proposed . This was consistent with the two half channel hypothesis , placing Arg210 of subunit a adjacent to Asp61 of the c-ring  . Interestingly , density for the c subunit is clearest adjacent to Arg210 of subunit a suggesting this area to be well ordered  . coli F-ATPase subunit a and the suggested path of proton translocation . Density map of subunit a , shown as orange surface viewed from the c-ring . Grey outline depicts invaginations of the detergent micelle , with arrows showing possible proton path . Cartoon representation of subunit a with a horizontal stripe to depict the position of Asp61 on the c-ring  . Functional mutants labeled as follows; essential arginine in blue , substitution with Arg210 resulting in functional complex in yellow , mutation to arginine resulting in a dysfunctional complex in teal and residues that are aqueous accessible in red . Solid arrows show a possible proton path via two ‘half’ channels and dashed arrows show the path when bound to Asp61 of the c-ring and rotating . coli FO motor . Left: overall map , with cross-section and viewpoints highlighted . and  : views from cytoplasm and periplasm to show invaginations  . View of the State two map from F1 to show c-ring stoichiometry  . coli FO motor . Yellow lines depict distances between Cα atoms known to crosslink when double cysteine mutants are introduced . intramolecular crosslinks identified in subunit a . The sequence was mapped to minimize the distance of these crosslinks , with them localizing to two groups . intermolecular crosslinks added to model show that the docked sequence maps well to the c-ring , but not as well to the b subunit . Arg210 of subunit a shown as blue stick , subunit a shown as orange cartoon , c-ring shown as grey cartoon and State one density shown as white surface . coli F-ATPase subunit a . The three models and maps were deposited in the pdb and emDB with codes 5T4O , EMD-8357  , 5 T4P , EMD-8358  , 5T4Q and EMD-8359  . coli F-ATPase cloned in plasmid pFV2 and expressed in E . coli DK8 strain was used  . The ATP synthase complex was extracted from membranes at 4°C for 1 hr by resuspending the pellet in extraction buffer consisting of 20 mM Tris/Cl , pH 8 . 0 , 300 mM NaCl , 2 mM MgCl2 , 100 mM sucrose , 20 mM imidazole , 10% glycerol , 4 mM digitonin and EDTA-free protease inhibitor tablets  . The protein was further purified and sugars removed by size exclusion chromatography on a 16/60 Superose six column equilibrated in a buffer containing 20 mM Tris/Cl pH 8 . 0 , 100 mM NaCl , 4 mM digitonin and 2 mM MgCl2 . The purified protein was then concentrated to 2 mg/ml for cryo-EM . Seventy microgram of F1Fo was reconstituted into extrusion-preformed 100 nm soybean phosphatidylcholine liposomes exactly as descried  . Proton pumping by proteoliposomes was studied using quenching of a pH sensitive fluorescent probe 9-Amino-6-Chloro-2-Methoxyacridine  exactly as described  . 25 mM ATP and stopped by 2 µM of the uncoupler FCCP . ATP hydrolase activity and its stimulation by LDAO was measured with ATP regenerating system using 5 µg of the protein with 1 mM ATP exactly as described  . DCCD inhibition of pure F1Fo was done as described  , with the following modification . Ten microgram of the protein was incubated in 1 ml buffer A  with 50 µM DCCD for 30 min at room temperature . Reaction was started by mixing the inhibited protein with 1 ml of buffer A containing all the components of ATP regenerating system . All the functional experiments presented here were repeated two to three times using the protein isolated by MS and shipped to RI at liquid N2 temperature . coli F-ATPase at a concentration of 3 . 1208 particles were manually picked and subjected to 2D classification to generate templates for autopicking in RELION  . These particles then underwent two rounds of 2D classification to generate 22 classes with 311 , 887 particles . The final particles were classified into four 3D classes using a previously generated model from a low-resolution data set of the same sample  , low-pass filtered to 60 Å . Three of the four classes containing 104 , 510  , 67 , 829  and 53 , 587  particles were movie-refined and post-processed in RELION producing maps at 7 . State 1 was further processed using masked classification  with residual signal subtraction with a mask created by removing parts of the detergent micelle . Three out of the four classes from this classification containing 95 , 345 particles were combined and refined to generate the final 6 . Local resolution of different parts of the complex was estimated using RELION and ResMap  . Crystal and NMR structures of subunits from E . coli  and related organisms  were rigid body docked into the highest resolution cryo-EM map and the side chains ‘pruned’ to Cα . The sequence was mapped to subunit a using crosslinks as restraints . Subsequent manual model building and refinement was performed with Coot  , Phenix  and Refmac   , with crosslinks again used as external restraints  . Nucleotide occupancy was determined by first building the model without any nucleotide present , and then segmenting the map and selecting any density with 15% overlap with atoms and deleting this density . Nucleotide was subsequently docked into this difference density using the known positions from previous structures . Once a complete model was built of the highest resolution map , this was docked and refined to the other two maps to create three models . The three models and maps were deposited in the pdb and emDataBank with codes 5T4O , EMD-8357  , 5 T4P , EMD-8358  , 5T4Q and EMD-8359  . "
"Axons contain a smooth tubular endoplasmic reticulum  network that is thought to be continuous with ER throughout the neuron; the mechanisms that form this axonal network are unknown . Mutations affecting reticulon or REEP proteins , with intramembrane hairpin domains that model ER membranes , cause an axon degenerative disease , hereditary spastic paraplegia  . We show that Drosophila axons have a dynamic axonal ER network , which these proteins help to model . Loss of HSP hairpin proteins causes ER sheet expansion , partial loss of ER from distal motor axons , and occasional discontinuities in axonal ER . Ultrastructural analysis reveals an extensive ER network in axons , which shows larger and fewer tubules in larvae that lack reticulon and REEP proteins , consistent with loss of membrane curvature . Therefore HSP hairpin-containing proteins are required for shaping and continuity of axonal ER , thus suggesting roles for ER modeling in axon maintenance and function . Another potential route for communication along axons is endoplasmic reticulum  ; axons possess a network of ER tubules , which appears physically continuous both locally  and with ER throughout the neuron  . Axonal ER appears mostly tubular and smooth , with some cisternae  . Some rough ER is likely to be present too: numerous mRNAs are found in both growing and mature axons  , and local axonal translation can occur in response to injury  . However , rough ER sheets  , and markers of protein export and folding that are characteristic of rough ER  , are relatively sparse in mature axons . Axonal ER therefore likely has major roles other than protein export; these could include lipid biosynthesis  , calcium homeostasis and signaling  , and coordination of organelle physiology  . The continuity of the ER network suggests that some of these roles might have long-range as well as local functions; indeed , an ER-dependent propagating calcium wave is seen after axotomy of Caenorhabditis elegans or mammalian dorsal root ganglion neurons  . A strong hint of the importance of ER in axons is found in Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia  , a group of axon degeneration disorders characterized by progressive spasticity and weakness of the lower limbs  . These proteins share a common feature of one or two hydrophobic hairpin-loops inserted in the ER membrane , promoting ER membrane curvature in a process termed hydrophobic wedging  . Proteins of the REEP and reticulon families localize preferentially to tubular or smooth ER , and their loss results in disruption of ER tubular organization  ; they may also contribute to modeling of rough ER sheets by stabilizing their curved edges  . What is the link between ER modeling and axon structure and function ? Therefore loss of normal ER modeling appears to compromise axon maintenance and function . Given the roles of hairpin-loop proteins in ER modeling , we aimed to test the model that hairpin-loop-containing HSP proteins organize the axonal ER network . Since reticulon and REEP family proteins are redundantly required for most peripheral ER tubules in yeast  , we focus on the requirement for these two families in axons . We previously showed that knockdown of the Drosophila reticulon Rtnl1 causes expansion of epidermal ER sheets , and partial loss of smooth ER marker from distal but not proximal motor axons  . We also show that simultaneous loss of reticulon and REEP family members leads to a range of axonal ER phenotypes , including a reduced network with fewer and larger tubules , and occasional gaps in the network . Our work implicates hairpin-loop-containing HSP proteins as important players in the axonal ER network , and suggests further models for how the network is organized . The reticulon and REEP families of double-hairpin-containing proteins are collectively responsible for formation or maintenance of most peripheral ER tubules in yeast  . We previously showed that the Drosophila reticulon ortholog Rtnl1 was strongly localized in axons , and that its knockdown caused partial loss of a smooth ER marker in posterior larval segmental axons  . To test the roles of Drosophila REEP proteins in axonal ER localization , we first dissected the ortholog relationships between the six Drosophila and six human REEP proteins . Multiple sequence alignment of mammalian and Drosophila REEP protein sequences suggested that CG42678 was the single Drosophila ortholog of mammalian REEP1-REEP4  . CG42678 has previously been designated Reep1  , but we propose the name ReepA to reflect its orthology to the four mammalian genes REEP1-REEP4 . A dendrogram based on ClustalW sequence alignment of Drosophila and human REEP proteins shows two branches corresponding to human REEP1-4  and human REEP5-6 . Rtnl1 genomic and transcript map , showing the region deleted in Rtnl1− by excision of P-element NP7026  , the RHD domain  and its coordinates in protein isoform G , the Rtnl1::YFP exon trap insertion CPTI001291  , and the fragment targeted by GD RNAi 7866 . ReepA genomic and transcript map showing the region deleted in ReepA− by excision of P-element CB-0501–3 , the position of the DP1 domain  and its coordinates in protein isoforms H and J . GFP insertion sites for ReepA1::GFP , ReepA2::GFP and ReepA3::GFP fusions are shown with green triangles . ReepB genomic and transcript map showing the region deleted in ReepB− by excision of P-element EY05130 , the position of the DP1 domain  and its coordinates in protein isoforms A and D ) . Confocal sections showing localization of ReepA::GFP isoforms and ReepB::GFP . Overlap of ReepA1::GFP and ReepB::GFP with anti-KDEL labeling in larval epidermal cells . To facilitate display of weaker ReepA1::GFP , the GFP channel in wild-type control  and ReepA::GFP images has been brightened four times as much as for ReepB::GFP . Expression of ReepA3::GFP and ReepB::GFP in third instar ventral nerve cord . The GFP channels for WT and ReepA::GFP have been brightened by twice as much as for ReepB::GFP . Arrowheads show ReepB::GFP extending into peripheral nerves . A single confocal section of a peripheral nerve , showing ReepB::GFP localized continuously along its length . Double labeling of an NMJ for ReepB::GFP and the mainly postsynaptic marker Dlg , showing ReepB::GFP in an axon emerging from nerve bundles  to extend to the NMJ , as well as in axons traversing the muscle surface  ; note the dispersed ReepB::GFP staining also in the underlying muscle . Double labeling of ReepA::GFP and ReepB::GFP lines for GFP and Dlg  shows presynaptic expression of ReepB::GFP . GFP expression in a wildtype negative control  , or from Rtnl1::GFP expressed in two closely apposed motor neurons by m12-GAL4 . Molecular lesions in Rtnl11 , ReepA541 and ReepB48 . BLASTN searches of the Drosophila genome , using the sequences of  Rtnl11 ,  ReepA541 and  ReepB48 mutations as queries , show the coordinates of each molecular lesion in the genome , as gaps in alignments between mutant and genomic sequences . The ReepA541 and ReepB48 sequences highlighted in yellow show P element footprints left at the excision sites . 004 A Rtnl1::YFP exon trap , Rtnl1CPTI001291  was previously shown to localize to ER , including in axons  . To study localization of ReepA and ReepB , we recombineered C-terminal GFP-tagged versions of these  using P genomic clones  . For ReepA , we generated EGFP fusions at three different C-termini  , that we called ReepA1::GFP  , ReepA2::GFP  and ReepA3::GFP  . In epidermal cells , we detected weak expression of ReepA1::GFP , but not of the other ReepA::GFP fusions; ReepB::GFP showed stronger expression still , and both fusions overlapped with an ER marker  , similar to REEP proteins in other organisms  . ReepB::GFP was also more strongly expressed in third instar larval CNS than ReepA3::GFP , which was the only ReepA::GFP fusion that we detected there  . ReepB::GFP , but no ReepA::GFP fusion , was also detected in segmental nerves  , and in individual axons emerging from nerve bundles leading to the NMJ  . ReepB::GFP , but none of the ReepA::GFP fusions , localized as a mostly continual structure along the length of presynaptic terminals of neuromuscular junctions   . We did not have a UAS-ReepB construct available , but UAS-Rtnl1::GFP  expressed in two adjacent motor neurons using m12-GAL4  also showed strong axonal localization . We therefore conclude that ReepB::GFP localizes in axonal and presynaptic ER , similar to Rtnl1::YFP  , but that none of the ReepA::GFP fusions is detectable in axonal or presynaptic ER . An Rtnl1 loss-of-function mutant , Rtnl11  , hereafter referred to as Rtnl1− , lacks the hydrophobic hairpin loop domain  that induces ER membrane curvature  . We also used P-transposase-mediated imprecise excision to generate ReepA− and ReepB− mutants , both of which lack most of the curvature-mediating DP1 hairpin domains  . First , we asked whether Drosophila reticulon and REEP proteins contribute to ER network organization in third instar larval epidermal cells; Rtnl1 knockdown leads to a more diffuse ER network organization and expansion of ER sheets in these cells , compared to wild-type controls  . Rtnl1− mutant larvae also showed loss of ER network organization  . Intensity of KDEL labeling along a line from the nucleus to cell periphery displayed fluctuating intensity , reflecting the reticular distribution of KDEL in wild-type larvae , but less fluctuation in Rtnl1− larvae; overall levels of KDEL remained unchanged  . Similarly , loss of both ReepA and ReepB , but not loss of either gene alone , made KDEL levels in larval epidermal cells fluctuate less than in controls . Mean intensity of KDEL staining was decreased in all ReepA and ReepB mutant genotypes , and fluctuation in intensity was increased in ReepB− larvae  . Since confocal analysis suggests altered organization of ER in epidermal cells , but does not have sufficient resolution to reveal the details of how it is altered , we performed electron microscopy of epidermal cells . This revealed that ReepA− ReepB− double mutant epidermal cells showed longer ribosome studded sheet ER profiles , compared to controls , and to ReepA− and ReepB− single mutants  . This mutant phenotype is similar to , although less severe than loss of Rtnl1  . ReepA− ReepB− mutants also showed increased ER stress in epidermal cells  but not in CNS  . Therefore , Rtnl1 and REEP proteins shape the ER network in Drosophila , and their loss disrupts ER organization , causing longer ER sheet profiles . Rtnl1− mutants and ReepA− ReepB− double mutants show disrupted ER organization in epidermal cells . KDEL distribution in third instar larval epidermal cells appears diffuse in Rtnl1− larvae compared to a more reticular staining in wild-type  larvae . KDEL intensity along yellow lines from nuclear envelope to the cell periphery shows less fluctuation in Rtnl1−  than in WT larvae  . KDEL distribution in third instar larval epidermal cells shows less spatial fluctuation in ReepA− ReepB− double mutant larvae compared to ReepA+  , and ReepA− and ReepB− single mutant larvae . This is confirmed by quantification as in A ) ; overall KDEL intensity is reduced in all ReepA and ReepB mutant genotypes . Electron micrographs show increased ER sheet profile length in ReepA− ReepB− double mutant third instar larval epidermal cells compared to single ReepA− and ReepB− mutants and controls . ReepA− ReepB− double mutant larvae have an increased ER stress response compared to a ReepA+  control , measured by Xbp1::GFP expression , in larval epidermis  but not in neuronal cell bodies  . 005 To understand the roles of reticulon and REEPs in axonal ER organization , we labeled axonal ER by expressing Acsl::myc  in two adjacent motor neurons using m12-GAL4  . Loss of Rtnl1 caused partial loss of Acsl::myc from posterior  axons , but not from anterior axons  ; it also caused Acsl::myc staining to appear more irregular in posterior but not anterior axons , reflected in a higher coefficient of variation  of Acsl::myc staining intensity along the length of posterior axons lacking Rtnl1 , compared to wild-type  . These Rtnl1 loss-of-function phenotypes were found either on targeted knockdown of Rtnl1 in these motor axons or in Rtnl1− mutant larvae , and the Rtnl1− mutant phenotypes could be partially rescued by one copy of an Rtnl1Pacman genomic clone  . Loss of either Rtnl1 or ReepB leads to partial loss of smooth ER marker from distal motor axons . Effects of Rtnl1 loss on ER , visualized by Acsl::myc expressed in two adjacent motor axons using m12-GAL4 . Images show effects of Rtnl1 knockdown , Rtnl1− mutation , rescue of Rtnl1− by Rtnl1Pacman and respective ReepA+ control  axons . Graphs show mean staining intensity  or coefficient of variation of intensity  as a measurement of staining variability along the length of each axon . Rtnl1 loss leads to partial loss of Acsl::myc in posterior but not anterior axons  , and to some disorganization of posterior axonal ER seen by increased coefficient of variation of Acsl::myc staining intensity . There is partial rescue of Rtnl1 phenotypes by one copy of a Rtnl1Pacman genomic clone . n = 15–20 larvae per genotype pooled from 5 independent experiments for RNAi; n = 24–36 larvae per genotype from 10 to 12 independent experiments for Rtnl1− mutant . Effects of ReepA or ReepB loss on axonal ER . ReepB knockdown or ReepB− mutation , but not ReepA mutation , causes partial loss of smooth ER marker Acsl::myc in posterior but not in anterior motor axons . The ReepB− phenotype can be mostly rescued by one copy of a genomic ReepB::GFP clone . A ReepA− ReepB− double mutant shows a similar phenotype to a ReepB− single mutant . ReepA− ReepB− double mutant , but not single ReepA− or ReepB− mutants , show increased coefficient of variation of Acsl::myc staining levels in posterior axons; n = 7–47 larvae from 4 to 11 independent experiments . ReepB RNAi was analyzed using two-tailed unpaired Student’s t-tests; multiple comparisons of ReepA and ReepB mutant genotypes were analyzed by ANOVA followed by post-hoc Tukey HSD tests . 006 ReepA− mutants showed no loss of Acsl::myc from axons . Similar to Rtnl1 loss of function , ReepB− mutants showed partial loss of Acsl::myc from posterior but not anterior motor axons  ; this phenotype was partially rescued with one copy of a genomic ReepB::GFP clone , and was also observed on ReepB knockdown in m12-GAL4-expressing neurons  . A ReepA− ReepB− double mutant showed loss of Acsl::myc from posterior axons , that was similar to that seen in ReepB− mutants  . ReepA− ReepB− double mutant larvae , but not ReepA− single mutants , showed an increased coefficient of variation of Acsl::myc staining intensity in posterior but not in anterior axons; ReepB mutant and knockdown axons both showed a slight increase in coefficient of variation in posterior axons , although this was not significant for ReepB mutants  . In summary , loss of either Rtnl1 or at least ReepB alters axonal ER distribution in posterior motor axons , therefore supporting roles for these two protein families in axonal ER organization; in contrast loss of ReepA has either subtle or no effects . Since loss of both reticulon and REEP families in yeast removes most peripheral ER tubules  , we tested whether loss of both protein families in Drosophila might have similarly severe effects on axonal ER . Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutants were viable and fertile as adults , but survived poorly beyond two weeks of adulthood , compared to 4–5 weeks for wild-type adults . Triple mutant larvae showed increased fluctuation of Acsl::myc staining intensity along motor axons compared to wild-type , mainly in middle parts  of longer axons . At its most extreme , this manifested as fragmentation of Acsl::myc labeling , which was never seen in wild-type axons  . When gaps in labeling were found in the central regions of axons , labeling in the anterior and posterior parts of the same axons was usually continuous  . Double labeling of plasma membrane  and axonal ER  showed no effect on axonal plasma membrane in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant compared to control axons  , implying that the phenotype was limited to ER and did not affect axon integrity . To compare genotypes and labels , we quantified irregular labeling along a 45 µm stretch of axon traversing the larval A4/A5 region in two ways: first we measured gaps in labeling , defined as intensity below a threshold that could consistently distinguish labeled axons above background labeling in the nerve; and second , we quantified the coefficient of variation of labeling intensity along the axon  . Rtnl1 loss-of-function axons , but not ReepA− ReepB− mutant axons , also showed a mild ER fragmentation phenotype  . Rtnl1  ReepA− ReepB− larvae also showed a fragmentation phenotype similar to Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− , suggesting that loss of Rtnl1 is essential for it  . Rtnl1− ReepB− double mutant axons also showed a similar phenotype to Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutants . Therefore , loss of Rtnl1 causes a mild irregular organization of axonal ER , and this phenotype is exacerbated by loss of ReepB , with no detectable contribution of ReepA loss; and loss of both Reep proteins has no apparent effect . Loss of hairpin proteins leads to discontinuity of axonal ER staining . Rtnl1− larvae and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant larvae sometimes show fragmented axonal ER labeling in the middle parts  of long motor axons that express Acsl::myc under control of m12-GAL4 . Anterior  and posterior  portions of the same motor axons show continuous ER labeling . Arrowheads show gaps in Acsl::myc staining; brighter versions of the same images show gaps in staining in mutants but not wild-type  , even when brightness of remaining staining is saturating . Panels show three examples of the range of Acsl::myc distributions found in the middle parts of long motor axons of each genotype of ReepA+  , Rtnl1− , Rtnl1− rescued with a Rtnl1Pacman construct , ReepA− ReepB− and Rtnl1− ReepB− double mutants , Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant , and Rtnl1  ReepA− ReepB− larvae . A variety of phenotypes , from continuous to fragmented Acsl::myc labeling , are found in genotypes that lack Rtnl1 , and tend to be more severe in genotypes that also lack ReepB . Insets show examples of gaps in ER continuity  at higher magnification . Percentages of a 45 µm length in the middle  of each axon that lacks Acsl::myc staining , using an intensity threshold of 20 on a scale of 0–255 . All genotypes that lack Rtnl1 show more gaps than WT; Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutants do not differ from Rtnl1  ReepA− ReepB− or Rtnl1− ReepB− double mutants , but are significantly more severe than Rtnl1− single mutants . The coefficient of variation of Acsl::myc labeling in middle axon portions is increased in genotypes lacking Rtnl1 , relative to controls . Comparison between Rtnl1− and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant genotypes was analyzed by two-tailed Student’s t-test , other multiple comparisons by ANOVA followed by Dunnett’s T3 test . Plasma membrane integrity is not affected in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant larvae ) . Coefficient of variation for plasma membrane labeling along axon length is unchanged in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant compared to control  axons , whereas the ER to plasma membrane ratio of the coefficient of variation is increased . Higher zoom images of the boxed areas show gaps  and brightly labeled axonal ER accumulations . 008 To confirm the physical continuity of ER in normal axons , and that gaps in Acsl::myc staining in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons reflect physical gaps in the ER network , we also visualized ER using fluorescent protein markers . The lipase CG9186::GFP  , Rtnl1::GFP  and tdTomato::Sec61β  all localize to ER , and all showed continuous labeling in wild-type  axons  . However , CG9186::GFP showed occasional gaps in triple mutant axons  , with at least one gap per larva visible by confocal microscopy in 6/17 larvae . Since confocal imaging might not reveal all physical discontinuities , and since gaps in marker distribution might not mean gaps in ER distribution , we probed the physical continuity of CG9186::GFP labeling using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching  . After bleaching a 12 µm length of axon in either wild-type axons or in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons lacking gaps , we observed rapid recovery of fluorescence from both ends of the bleached region  , suggesting no physical barrier to CG9186::GFP diffusion . The kinetics of recovery were similar between wildtype and triple mutant axons  . We also performed FRAP on regions next to gaps in CG9186::GFP labeling in triple mutant axons  ; here we observed good recovery of fluorescence from the end of the bleached region opposite the gap , but no recovery across the gap  , suggesting that gaps in CG9186::GFP labelling were also physical barriers to diffusion of CG9186::GFP , and hence gaps in the ER network . Live imaging of ER in wild type and hairpin mutant axons . Representative FRAP assay images from ReepA+  or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons in which ER was visualized using CG9186::GFP expression driven in two motor axons by m12-GAL4 . One triple mutant axon shows a gap in labeling  . Most areas of intense and less intense ER labeling remain stable over time  ; occasional movements of ER features are indicated by white arrows in kymographs . Relative fluorescence intensities within the photobleached region were plotted  during recovery for wild-type axons or for triple mutant axons lacking ER gaps . Quantification of half recovery time  and rate constant  for wild-type and triple mutant axons lacking gaps , with median and interquartile range . Representative kymographs from time-lapse recording of CG9186::GFP in unbleached single ReepA+  or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons lacking gaps . The left panel shows retrograde movement of a ~ 3 µm length of ER labeling  ; the right panel shows anterograde movement of a ~ 5 µm stretch of ER labeling  . Continuity , stability and movement of fluorescent ER labeling in wild-type  and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons . Time series and kymographs of two closely apposed motor axons expressing either Rtnl1::GFP or Sec61bβ::tdTomato ER markers under control of m12-GAL4 . Images show continuity of ER staining in axons , and kymographs show stability of most ER features over the acquisition time . Kymographs showing fluorescence recovery after photobleaching in two ReepA+  axons , or in two Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons lacking ER gaps . Most ER features seen before bleaching  can also be seen after recovery , implying that recovery proceeds by protein diffusion , not by movement of ER structures . Kymographs showing fluorescence recovery after photobleaching immediately distal to gaps in ER staining , in four Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons . While most ER gaps and many other features are stable , one axon shows a retrogradely moving particle  , and one shows anterograde movement of ER that closes one gap and opens another more proximally  . Wild-type  axons expressing CG9186::GFP under control of m12-GAL4 were photobleached as described in Figure 5A . Representative time-lapse microscopy of FRAP analysis in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons . Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons expressing CG9186::GFP were photobleached and imaged as in Video 1 , in a region immediately distal to a gap  in ER labeling in one axon . FRAP analysis in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons showing a CG9186::GFP labeled particle passing retrogradely across the gap region . Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons expressing CG9186::GFP were photobleached and imaged immediately distal to an ER gap as in Video 2 . A labeled particle  can be seen moving retrogradely across the ER gap  . FRAP analysis in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons showing dynamic ER gap generation . Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons expressing CG9186::GFP were photobleached and imaged immediately distal to an ER gap as in Video 2 . Anterograde movement of a 5 µm length of ER simultaneously closes up a gap distal to it  and opens up a new gap  proximal to it . 014 During live imaging , we also followed the stability of the ER network in both wild-type and mutant axons . However , we also observed some dynamic features , including anterograde or retrograde movement of more brightly labeled regions  perhaps representing movement of ER tubules detached from the ER network , and retrograde movement of labeled puncta  , at around 0 . While most gaps in ER labeling in triple mutants were stable over 200 s  , in one case a gap was closed up by anterograde movement of a 5 µm length of ER proximal to the gap , which simultaneously opened up a new gap proximal to the moving section  . In one case a labeled punctum moved retrogradely across an ER gap without pausing  , implying that microtubule-based transport was intact . Therefore , live imaging and photobleaching of CG9186::GFP both suggest that ER is normally continuous in axons , that loss of reticulon and REEP proteins leads to occasional gaps in ER labeling that represent physical breaks of ER continuity , and that ER network organization in axons shows both static and dynamic features . We also tested for possible defects in axon transport by staining for abnormal accumulation of the synaptic vesicle protein CSP in axons . Rtnl1− larvae and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant larvae showed large accumulations of CSP in many peripheral nerves . The large accumulations of CSP in Rtnl1− larvae could be rescued by two copies of a Rtnl1Pacman genomic clone  . Loss of Rtnl1 causes mild accumulation of synaptic vesicles in axons . Peripheral nerves of Rtnl1− and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant larvae show larger accumulations of synaptic vesicle protein CSP  , and smaller elongated CSP puncta  . In contrast , control larvae  and ReepA− ReepB− double mutant larvae show an even distribution of small round CSP puncta . CSP accumulations are not significantly bigger in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutants than in Rtnl1− mutants . The CSP accumulations in Rtnl1− larvae can be rescued by two copies of a Rtnl1Pacman genomic clone . 015 To better understand wild-type axonal ER organization , and the mutant phenotypes seen in confocal microscopy , we performed electron microscopy  on 60-nm-thick serial sections of third instar peripheral nerves . Peripheral nerves contain both motor and sensory axons , arranged in fascicles , and wrapped in three main classes of glial cell  . Wild-type larvae showed a network of ER tubules , in every axon that could be observed  . 6 ER tubules in each cross-section  . Reconstruction  showed a tubular network with multiple branches , some dead ends , and continuity along nearly every axon sectioned . ER tubules often showed proximity to mitochondria or plasma membrane  . We also found occasional structures resembling small patches of ER sheets with an adjoining cisterna  , continuous with the tubular ER network  , at a frequency averaging around one per 20 µm per axon . Loss of hairpin proteins leads to fewer but enlarged ER tubules in larval peripheral nerve axons . EMs of peripheral nerve axons from wild-type ReepA+  or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant  larvae . Arrowheads indicate ER tubules  . Triple mutant axons show enlarged ER tubules , sometimes with a clear lumen  , seldom observed in wild-type . Quantification of ER tubule diameter  and tubules per axon cross-section  in control and mutant larvae . Data from individual ER tubules or axons are shown in B and D , averaged larval values , mean ±SEM in C and E . 5 µm axon segment from wild-type  or mutant  peripheral nerves , generated from 75 serial 60 nm sections , showing ER  , mitochondria  and plasma membrane  . Electron micrographs of peripheral nerve axons from wild-type  or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant  larvae , showing proximity of ER to mitochondria  or plasma membrane  . Representative EM of short ER sheet  and cisterna  from a wild-type larva; further sections in Video 6 . Serial EM sections show ER discontinuity in two mutant axons: axon 1 lacks ER tubules in sections z6-z14 and axon 3 in sections z1-z11; neighboring axons  show a continuous ER network . 5 µm axon segment from mutant peripheral nerves , generated from 75 serial 60 nm sections , showing multiple gaps  . ER gap length  , numbers of ER gaps per µm  , and proportion of axon length with gaps  in affected axons . In M–O , top graphs show data from individual ER gaps  or individual axons  , with second and third quartiles and 5th and 95th percentiles; bottom graphs show averaged larval values , mean ±SEM . ER tubules were identified as darkly stained structures present for multiple sections . Serial EM sections of a sheet-like ER structure in a wild-type axon , shown in Figure 7H . 018 If Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant larvae have less ER membrane curvature , we would expect them to have larger ER tubules , fewer tubules per section , loss of tubules , or a combination of these . ER tubule diameter was increased to around 60 nm  , allowing a lumen to be seen in some tubules  that was rarely seen in wild-type  , and most triple mutant axons exhibited only a single ER tubule  . Reconstructions  showed a less extensive ER network in mutant axons . Frequent contacts of ER with mitochondria and plasma membrane were found in both wild-type and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant axons  . Both wild-type and mutant axons showed swellings containing mitochondria and clusters of vesicles resembling synaptic vesicles  . Serial EM sections of a Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− peripheral nerve showing continuity of tubular membrane structures through multiple sections . ER tubules were identified as darkly stained structures present for multiple sections . 020 Serial EM sections also revealed variable fragmentation of ER in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant axons  , consistent with that seen using confocal microscopy  . Some discontinuity of the ER network was observed in about 10% of wild-type or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant axons  . However , gaps in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant axons  were longer  , and slightly more numerous  than in wild-type axons , resulting in nearly a four-fold increase in the length of affected axons that lacked ER tubules  . 5 µm segment of a Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant axon with disrupted continuity of ER , used for 3D reconstruction in Figure 7K . An axon with gaps in its ER network is highlighted in the first frame . Continuous ER tubules were identified as the presence of signals at the same position for three or more sections . Given the varying brightness and contrast of EM sections , faint staining that coincided with a tubule signal in adjacent sections was also considered as an ER tubule . Complete loss of ER tubules from three or more sections was defined as a gap . 021 Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant peripheral nerves also showed glial cell phenotypes . Wild-type peripheral nerves are surrounded by an outer perineurial glial cell , and just beneath this a subperineurial glial cell; axons or axon fascicles are wrapped imperfectly by a wrapping glia cell  . All glial classes , but particularly subperineurial glia , showed a trend towards increased ER sheet profile length compared to control cells  , similar to Rtnl1 knockdown  or ReepA− ReepB− double mutant  epidermal cells . Triple mutant wrapping glia also displayed more extensive wrapping , sometimes completely ensheathing axons , which was rarely observed in control nerve sections  . Loss of reticulon and REEP proteins leads to ER disorganization in glial cells and hyper-wrapping of peripheral axons . EMs of peripheral nerve sections from ReepA+   or Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant  larvae . Higher magnification images of perineurial  , subperineurial  , and wrapping  glia from wild-type  or mutant  nerve sections , showing ER tubules  and sheets  . Note the longer ER sheet profiles and fewer ER tubules in the subperineurial  and wrapping glial cells  of mutant nerves . ER sheet profile length in control and mutant glial cells from 3 wild-type and 4 mutant larvae . Two-way ANOVA showed a significant effect of genotype  but not glial class  on ER sheet length , with no interaction between factors  . Sketches of wild-type  and mutant  wrapping glial cells , showing excess processes in the triple mutant . Asterisks indicate completely wrapped one-axon or two-axon fascicles , rarely seen in wild-type nerve sections . Quantification of wrapping glial membrane profile length per nerve cross-section  and percentage of axons that are wrapped individually or as two-axon fascicles  in wild-type and mutant nerve sections  . Sketches of wrapping glia in wild-type  and Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant peripheral nerves , similar to those in Figure 8J , K . The existence of a tubular axonal ER network has been known for decades . The finding that several causative genes for the axon degenerative disease HSP encode ER modeling proteins , suggests a link between ER modeling and axon function or maintenance , and provides candidate proteins that may be instrumental in structure and function of the axon ER network . These candidates include several hairpin-loop-containing HSP proteins , of the spastin , atlastin , reticulon , REEP , and Arl6IP1 families , that influence ER structure in situations including yeast , mammalian cultured cells , and neuronal cell bodies in vivo  . The HSP-related protein families that model ER , and some other proteins that interact with them , share a common feature of one or two intramembrane hairpin loops that can insert into the cytosolic face of the ER membrane , thereby recognizing or inducing curvature . This property makes the reticulon and REEP  families together responsible for most peripheral ER tubules in yeast , and contribute to the curved edges of ER sheets  . The latter property may explain the expansion of ER sheets in Drosophila lacking the reticulon Rtnl1  and in REEP1 homozygous mutant mice  . Given this background , we set out to test how far the reticulon and REEP families contribute to axonal ER organization . REEP1 homozygous mutant mice were not previously tested for effects on axonal ER , although knockdown of Drosophila Rtnl1 led to partial loss of smooth ER marker in distal motor axons  . Here we build on this work by analyzing mutants of all the widely expressed and highest conserved members of the reticulon and REEP families in Drosophila: Rtnl1 , an ortholog of all four human reticulons  ; ReepA , an ortholog of human REEP1-REEP4; and ReepB , an ortholog of human REEP5-REEP6 . We monitored phenotypes of these mutants , singly and in combination , by confocal microscopy of axonal ER markers in small numbers of motor neurons , live imaging and photobleaching of ER , and EM using membrane-specific staining . Confocal microscopy revealed a partial loss of ER marker in distal but not in more proximal motor axons in Rtnl1 and in ReepB mutants . Although the only REEP genes identified as causative for HSP are REEP1 and REEP2 , loss of their ortholog ReepA had at most only mild effects on axonal ER  . The stronger axonal ER phenotypes of ReepB or Rtnl1 loss of function , compared to ReepA− mutants , is consistent with the higher levels of ReepB and Rtnl1 expression , judged by transcriptomics  , and the detection of ReepB and Rtnl1 but not ReepA fusions in peripheral nerves  or individual axons  . The partial loss of distal axonal ER marker in both mutants and motor-neuron knockdowns , of either Rtnl1 or ReepB  , and qualitatively similar ER fragmentation phenotypes in Rtnl1 ReepA ReepB triple loss-of-function genotypes , obtained using either Rtnl1 mutants or motor-neuron knockdown  , suggest that the axonal ER phenotypes are cell autonomous in motor neurons . Given the joint and partly redundant requirement of the reticulon and REEP families for ER tubule formation in yeast  , we tested whether this was also true for axonal ER . Flies lacking Rtnl1 , ReepA and ReepB – probably equivalent to mammals lacking all four reticulons and all six REEPs , and homozygous viable – indeed showed more extreme ER phenotypes than axons lacking either Rtnl1 or ReepA and ReepB alone  . However , only a fraction of mutant axons showed severe fragmentation , and even affected axons still had continuous labeling of axons with ER marker through much of their length . ER fragmentation in the middle parts of long axons might be a consequence of axon expansion during larval growth , in which the somatic and presynaptic ends of the axon are gradually pulled apart , with insufficient ER-modeling proteins to maintain the expanding tubular network throughout the axoplasm . Therefore reticulon and REEP proteins are present in axons and have roles in ER organization there – but since triple mutant axons still mostly possess ER , there must be additional proteins required too . These might be found among the increasing number of other HSP genes that encode ER proteins with possible hairpins , such as Arl6IP1/SPG61 , which affects ER organization  , or C19orf12/SPG43  . The variable nature of the triple mutant fragmentation phenotype might reflect stochastic variation in the amounts of such proteins , the amount of ER present , external factors like physical stresses during larval movement , or dynamic fluctuations in the local levels and connections of ER tubules . The tubular ER network is highly dynamic in non-neuronal cells  and in axons our live imaging suggests dynamic features superimposed on a structure that is largely stable over the 1–2 min of imaging  . EM examination of wild-type axonal ultrastructure revealed that ER tubules were effectively ubiquitous in Drosophila peripheral nerve sections , as seen previously in mammalian neurons  , albeit with fewer tubules , presumably reflecting the smaller diameters of the axons examined here . Reconstruction over several µm showed a continuous network of ER tubules in most axons examined , in agreement with the ER continuity found in neurons by lipid dye labeling  , and recently in reconstructions of serial sections from focused ion beam SEM  . However , in a few axons , we found short lengths of axon with no detectable ER  . only assessed continuity in dendrites , cell body and proximal axon; some of the gaps we observe in EM could be short transient gaps in a dynamic network; some of the apparent gaps could be ‘thin ER’ observed using higher-resolution focused-ion-beam SEM  , but that might be missed using our approach; larval axons with low diameters might be intrinsically more susceptible to occasional gaps in the ER network , than wider axons with more tubules; and we might occasionally miss an ER tubule due to weaker staining , or close proximity to other structures like plasma membrane . We also observed occasional small ER sheet-like structures in wild-type axons  . As discussed above , rough ER and translation are relatively sparse in axons , but low levels of rough ER are possible , and consistent with the occasional sheet structures observed here . EM also showed phenotypes consistent with loss of ER membrane curvature in Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− triple mutant axons  . Mutant axons had ER tubules of larger diameter , fewer tubules per axon cross-section , and consistent with our confocal data  , longer gaps in the ER network than wild-type , although most parts of most mutant axons examined still had a continuous ER network  . Larger tubules could potentially store and release more calcium than thinner ones , while the reduced network could make the role of the ER in calcium buffering or release more localized . The less extensive ER network in mutants might also reduce the amount of contact between ER and other organelles , with consequences for calcium and lipid homeostasis that require these contacts , or for regulation of mitochondrial fission  – although the continuing proximity of ER to mitochondria and plasma membrane in mutants means that any effects are presumably quantitative rather than qualitative . The reduced curvature of ER membrane in mutants might also influence their protein composition , since many membrane proteins have mechanisms for recognizing differential membrane curvature  . The occasional lack of continuity could prevent propagation of ER-dependent Ca2+ signals like those seen in injured mammalian sensory neurons  ; it could also cause local impairments in Ca2+ or lipid homeostasis that could lead to local transport inhibition , as is the case for mitochondrial transport  , although lack of ER continuity does not appear to directly prevent axon transport  . Sporadic lack of ER continuity might explain the preferential sensitivity of distal longer axons to HSPs , since these would be more likely to suffer from a gap in ER continuity to the cell body , compared to proximal or shorter axons . In this model , disease-causing alleles in single hairpin-encoding genes could promote degeneration in distal motor axons by increasing the probability of such gaps , dependent on factors such as age , axon length or diameter , and ER tubule density and dynamics . The apparent ubiquity of ER in axons , the extent of its continuity over long distances , and the preferential susceptibility of distal longer axons to mutations that affect ER-modeling proteins , all point to important physiological roles of this compartment and of its continuity . We have shown roles for two protein families that contain HSP disease gene products , in influencing the shape of individual tubules and the axonal ER network , with potential physiological consequences that would also be affected by mutations in these genes . Understanding the consequences of axonal ER structural defects for ER dynamics and axonal physiology , both in the genotypes we have described here , and in other genotypes that might also affect axonal ER organization , will provide models for the potential physiological defects in HSP and other axon degeneration diseases . ReepA541  , and ReepB48  mutants were generated by imprecise excision of P elements CB-0501–3  and EY05130  shown in Figure 1 . Rtnl11 , referred as Rtnl1− , was a gift from G . Rtnl1− , ReepA− and ReepB− recombinants were generated by meiotic recombination on the second chromosome , and recombinants were screened using PCR primers  to diagnose wild-type or mutant alleles of all three genes . For knockdown experiments , either UAS-Rtnl1-RNAi line 7866  , or the w1118 control stock , 60000  , or the UAS-ReepB-RNAi line 8331 R-3  was crossed with UAS-Dcr2; CyO/If; m12-GAL4 , UAS-Acsl::myc . UAS-Dcr2  was also present for knockdown in Rtnl1  ReepA− ReepB− larvae . A second-chromosome insertion of P  was mobilized onto the third chromosome using the P transposase source P99B  , and expressed using m12-GAL4 in either a ReepA+ or an Rtnl1− ReepA− ReepB− mutant second chromosome background . For rescue of Rtnl11 we generated transgenic flies carrying P clone CH322-124P15 inserted at attP2 on chromosome 3  , referred to as Rtnl1Pacman  . For C-terminal EGFP-LAP-tagging of ReepA and ReepB we used recombineering with the P system with minor modifications  , utilizing the CH322-97D15  and CH322-16N11  BAC clones  . Proximal  axons were imaged from segment A2 , middle images were from the end of segment A4 and A5 , distal  axons were imaged from segment A6 of third instar larvae . Mean gray intensity for single-axon images was measured by drawing a 45 µm line , either along both M12-GAL4-expressing axons  , or along the most strongly labeled axon  , and quantifying gray intensity  by ImageJ; occasional images with saturated pixels were excluded from analysis after blinding . Coefficient of variation was calculated by dividing the standard deviation of staining intensity by the mean; occasional images with faint staining throughout the axon were excluded from analysis after blinding . Average fluorescence intensity of each axon in each frame was measured by creating a line selection along the axon . To quantify axonal ER tubule diameter , non-axonal staining was removed manually , and ER tubule profiles were identified based on the local threshold in a single cross-section , and the presence of signals at the same position in adjacent sections . ER numbers per axon were counted manually for all axons detected in the nerve . To quantify gaps in the tubule network , each axon was analyzed throughout the entire stack of sections . To allow for occasional lightly stained or blurred sections , only complete loss of ER tubules from three or more consecutive sections in an axon was defined as a gap . Continuous ER tubules were identified as the presence of signals at the same position for three or more consecutive sections . Given the varying brightness and contrast of EM sections , faint staining that coincided with a tubule signal in adjacent sections was also considered as an ER tubule . For quantification of glial ER sheet length , individual ER sheet profiles were measured using Fiji via the line tool and Measure command . Wrapped axons were defined as one-axon or two-axon fascicles which were completely wrapped by glial cells and isolated from other neighboring axons . when confocal images were too faint or saturated , and EM images lacked clearly identifiable plasma or ER membranes . "
"Retinitis pigmentosa  and associated inherited retinal diseases  are caused by rod photoreceptor degeneration , necessitating therapeutics promoting rod photoreceptor survival . To address this , we tested compounds for neuroprotective effects in multiple zebrafish and mouse RP models , reasoning drugs effective across species and/or independent of disease mutation may translate better clinically . We first performed a large-scale phenotypic drug screen for compounds promoting rod cell survival in a larval zebrafish model of inducible RP . We tested 2934 compounds , mostly human-approved drugs , across six concentrations , resulting in 113 compounds being identified as hits . Leads were then evaluated in a series of mouse RP models in an effort to identify compounds effective across species and RP models , that is , potential pan-disease therapeutics . Nine of 11 leads exhibited neuroprotective effects in mouse primary photoreceptor cultures , and three promoted photoreceptor survival in mouse rd1 retinal explants . Shared target tests implicated parp1-dependent cell death in our zebrafish RP model . Complementation tests revealed enhanced and additive/synergistic neuroprotective effects of paired drug combinations in mouse photoreceptor cultures and zebrafish , respectively . These results highlight the value of cross-species/multi-model phenotypic drug discovery and suggest combinatorial drug therapies may provide enhanced therapeutic benefits for RP patients . The initial pathological feature of RP is selective rod photoreceptor cell death causing night blindness , which is then followed by loss of cone photoreceptors and eventual full blindness  . Accordingly , the purpose of our study was to identify compounds capable of promoting rod cell survival in multiple RP models and across species . As RP progression is relatively protracted , and even small numbers of surviving rod photoreceptors can preserve cone photoreceptor function  , pharmacological interventions aimed at slowing rod photoreceptor death are sought  . However , currently there are no effective therapies for promoting rod photoreceptor survival . Here , to identify neuroprotective compounds promoting rod photoreceptor survival , ARQiv-HTS was used to perform a large-scale chemical screen in a transgenic zebrafish model enabling inducible rod photoreceptor cell death  . In these fish , YFP-NTR  is selectively expressed in rod photoreceptors . NTR expression enables inducible ablation of rod cells upon exposure to prodrug substrates , such as metronidazole  , which are thought to cause apoptosis through activated metabolites that cause DNA damage  . Validation tests in an orthogonal series of mouse RP models followed , reasoning that drugs effective across species and/or independent of disease mutation may translate better clinically . All leads were screened in primary mouse photoreceptor cell cultures and a subset of leads was evaluated in retinal explants from the retinal degeneration 1  mutant mouse model of RP . The results implicated PARP as a key mediator of NTR/Mtz-mediated rod cell ablation , and PARP1 inhibition as a shared MOA for a subset of leads . As PARP-dependent cell death pathways are implicated in the etiology of Parkinson’s disease  , RP  , and other neurodegenerative disorders  , NTR/Mtz-mediated cell ablation may serve as an inducible and titratable methodology for modeling neurodegenerative disease . To interrogate complementary MOA , lead compounds were tested in pairs in mouse photoreceptor cell culture assays and in zebrafish . Intriguingly , enhanced survival effects were common in mouse photoreceptor cell cultures , while additive and even synergistic effects were evident in zebrafish for the majority of pairs tested . Taken together , our results suggest drugs providing neuroprotective effects across diverse RP models , between species , and/or through complementary MOA , will provide promising new therapeutic opportunities for IRD/RP patients . We initiated our study using a robotics-automated large-scale in vivo screening system to identify compounds that promoted rod photoreceptor survival in a transgenic zebrafish line enabling targeted ablation of rod photoreceptors , Tg  gmc500 , hereafter , rho:YFP-NTR  . 7 kb rhodopsin  promoter fragment  drives transgene expression exclusively in rod photoreceptor cells  . NTR expression enables pro-drug inducible targeted cell ablation  . Exposing rho:YFP-NTR fish to the prodrug metronidazole  leads to the selective death of rod photoreceptors and concomitant loss of YFP  , physiologically mimicking the onset of RP  . An immunohistological analysis of rod and cone photoreceptor markers was performed on 7 days post-fertilization  zebrafish retinal sections to test if Mtz-induced ablation was specific to rod cells . In non-ablated controls , rod outer segment labeling was well correlated with YFP expression  . In Mtz-treated retinas , rod outer segment labeling and YFP expression were markedly diminished  . Cone photoreceptor labeling showed no overlap with YFP expression , and cone cell labeling appeared similar in non-ablated and Mtz-treated retinas  , suggesting cone cells were not affected by Mtz exposure or by acute rod cell loss . Prior studies suggest NTR/Mtz-mediated ablation occurs by apoptosis  and loss of rods in RP has also been linked to apoptosis  . Thus , we reasoned rho:YFP-NTR fish could be used to identify compounds that protected rods from apoptosis . To identify neuroprotective compounds with this model  , we used our established plate reader-based ARQiv-HTS assay  . We first determined optimal conditions for inducing rod cell loss while maintaining larval health in a 96-well plate format . Reporter expression in rho:YFP-NTR larvae has also stabilized by this time point  , consistent with rho expression  . We therefore chose 5 dpf to initiate Mtz-induced rod cell ablation . We previously determined that rod cell loss reached a nadir at 7 dpf following a 24 hr pulse of 10 mM Mtz at 5 dpf  . We reasoned that a 48 hr Mtz exposure initiating at 5 dpf would maximize the signal window to test for neuroprotective effects . However , 10 mM Mtz treatments extending beyond 24 hr become increasingly toxic  and removing Mtz from microtiter plates after a 24 hr pulse could not be easily automated . We therefore sought a 48 hr Mtz treatment regimen sufficient for inducing maximal rod cell loss by 7 dpf that showed no evidence of general toxicity . 5 mM Mtz was the lowest concentration producing maximal loss of YFP detection , and confocal imaging verified YFP loss following a 2-day  2 . To establish a positive control , we tested 17 compounds and one compound ‘cocktail’ previously implicated as neuroprotectants in mammalian RP models  . Our screen was designed to address this issue by testing for neuroprotective effects of these compounds across species and between different RP models . Fortunately , a compound identified as a retinal cell neuroprotectant by the Zack lab  did show-dose-dependent effects on YFP levels . To minimize false discovery rates , all compounds were tested using qHTS principles  – that is , across six concentrations  using a twofold dilution series . Real-time data analysis was performed as previously detailed  to generate:  a plot of YFP signal levels ,  a plot of SSMD scores across all tested concentrations ,  a signal intensity heat map of each plate , and  an SSMD score table  . This step facilitated elimination of false-positive compounds producing aberrant fluorescence due to larval toxicity  or compound autofluorescence  . Hit compounds were classified according to the highest SSMD score achieved across all concentrations tested , and whether concentration-dependent effects were observed . ‘On label’ mechanism of action  information available for the 113 hits implicated more than 50 targets/pathways in rod cell neuroprotection  . We next performed a series of confirmatory and orthogonal assays to evaluate a subset of 42 hit compounds prioritized by SSMD score , dose-response profile , and/or implicated MOA  . Having extensive MOA data is a key advantage of testing human-approved compounds which we leveraged in a previous large-scale zebrafish PDD screen  . Estimated effects on rod cell survival – that is , YFP signal levels relative to +Mtz/0 . These results suggest that prioritizing hit compounds by both relative SSMD scores and dose-dependent trends provides predictive value for confirming activity , consistent with qHTS principles  . As rod cell death is induced by NTR-mediated reduction of the prodrug Mtz in our model , it is possible that some lead compounds simply suppressed NTR enzymatic activity . To test this , NTR activity was evaluated in the presence of each lead compound by assaying the reduction kinetics of the prodrug CB1954 in vitro  . To ensure any potential for NTR inhibition was accounted for , all compounds were tested at 300 μM  that is , ~100-fold greater than neuroprotective concentrations . Compounds were deemed potential inhibitors if NTR activity was less than 75% of the NTR alone control . Seven compounds showed no evidence of NTR inhibition by this criterion , but four did: warfarin  , ciclopirox olamine  , calcimycin  , and sulindac  . When NTR reduction of Mtz was tested for WAR , CPO , and CAL at 300 μM , similarly weak inhibitory effects were observed  . The differences in concentrations between neuroprotective and NTR inhibitory activities diminish the likelihood that these leads act directly on NTR . To test this further , lead compounds were assayed for neuroprotective effects in NTR-independent mouse RP models  . To control for the possibility that lead candidates promoted rod photoreceptor development , rather than neuroprotection , YFP levels were quantified in rho:YFP-NTR larvae exposed solely to lead drugs from 5 to 7 dpf  . In contrast , none of the retinas treated with lead compounds exhibited increased YFP expression , suggesting they do not promote rod photoreceptor cell fate . In fact , three lead compounds cloxyquin  , cortexolone  and CPO reduced YFP signals relative to the untreated control  , suggesting negative effects on rod cell development . Therefore , to determine whether lead compounds acted by stimulating regeneration , we used a previously described ARQiv assay designed to detect changes in rod cell replacement kinetics  . Briefly , rho:YFP-NTR larvae were first treated with 10 mM Mtz at 5 dpf for 24 hr to induce rod cell loss . At 6 dpf , Mtz was washed out and larvae were treated with lead compounds at concentrations corresponding to maximal neuroprotective effects and YFP levels quantified at 9 dpf  . Dexamethasone , which accelerates rod cell regeneration kinetics  , was used as a positive control . The results showed that none of the compounds increased rod cell regeneration rates  , while four compounds , dihydroartemisinin  , CLO , CPO and MIC inhibited regeneration . These data suggest that lead compounds do not increase YFP levels by promoting rod cell regeneration . To test if lead compounds simply increased YFP signal intensity , rather than promoted rod cell survival , intravital microscopy was used to image Mtz-treated retinas ±lead compounds and non-ablated  controls . Mtz-treated retinas had reduced numbers of YFP-NTR-expressing rods  . Conversely , rods in control retinas displayed robust YFP signal throughout the retina and elongated morphologies suggestive of healthy outer segments  . In retinas exposed to Mtz and lead compounds , YFP signal loss was attenuated and rods typically displayed elongated morphologies  . To confirm lead compounds increased rod cell survival , confocal stacks of YFP-expressing rods were 3D-rendered and fluorescence volume quantified using Imaris software-based automated image analysis  . The data showed a statistically significant increase in YFP volumes for all drug-treated groups  , confirming that lead compounds promoted increased rod cell numbers and/or preserved outer segment morphology . To further investigate if lead compounds preserved rod outer segments , we used a newly developed zebrafish transgenic line , Tg  jh405  . In this line , rods co-express membrane-tagged YFP and an improved NTR  . The membrane-tagged YFP facilitates improved imaging of rod outer segments , while NTR 2 . To assess if lead compounds preserved outer segment morphologies , intravital confocal imaging was performed as above but using the rho:YFP-NTR2 . Qualitative image analysis suggested the majority , six of seven tested lead compounds , preserved rod outer segments  . Reasoning that preservation of outer segments would equate to increased rod cell size , relative to rounded morphologies of dead or stressed cells , average rod cell sizes were calculated as the total YFP volume divided by the number of rod cells per each 3D confocal stack  . Compared to rod ablated controls , five of seven lead compounds tested promoted statistically significant increases in rod cell volumes  . These data suggest some lead compounds were able to maintain rod outer segment morphology , thus potentially maintaining rod cell function . To identify new therapeutics for RP patients , we reasoned compounds producing neuroprotective effects across fish and mammalian RP models would likely target conserved mechanisms , and thus be more likely to translate successfully in the clinic . We therefore tested the efficacy of lead compounds in a series of mouse models of retinal photoreceptor degeneration . First , we tested compounds for the capacity to protect mouse primary photoreceptor cells from stressor-induced cell death in culture . To test for survival effects , all eleven lead compounds were screened at seven concentrations across a threefold dilution series  . After 48 hr in stressor ± lead compounds , cells were imaged using an automated high-content screening system . Nine of 11 lead compounds , proved protective in the thapsigargin-induced cell death assay  . Thus , nine of 11 lead compounds promoted the survival of mouse primary photoreceptor cells in at least one stressor-induced cell death assay , and three were neuroprotective in both assays . We next tested lead compounds for survival effects in rd1 mouse retinal explant cultures . The rd1 mouse model of RP exhibits early onset rod cell degeneration caused by a mutation in the Pde6b gene  , which is an ortholog of the human RP-associated PDE6B  . Eight lead compounds , all but CAL , SUL , and Zinc pyrithione  , were tested for survival effects at three concentrations across a fivefold dilution series centered on the concentration most effective in fish RP models . CPO , DHA , and ART thus promoted rod cell survival in the fish RP model and two mouse cell culture RP models . Therefore , as DHA is the active metabolite of ART-related compounds , we proceeded with testing DHA in an in vivo mouse RP model . To test the potential of DHA as a ‘pan-disease’ therapeutic , that is , whether it was effective across multiple genetic RP models , it was tested for photoreceptor survival effects in the rd10 mouse model of RP  . DHA was selected based on its superior performance in rd1 retinal explant assays  and because it is the active metabolite of a second lead drug candidate , ART , recently shown to protect photoreceptors from light damage  . Previously , we used ‘on label’ information to explore MOA of hit compounds identified during an in vivo phenotypic screen of the JHDL  . Accordingly , we applied a target-agnostic MOA analysis process by evaluating lead compound performance in HTS and ultra-HTS studies archived on PubChem  . To test whether TDP1 inhibition promoted rod photoreceptor survival , we tested three TDP1 inhibitors in rod:YFP-NTR fish: paromomycin  , thiostrepton  , and methyl-3 , 4-dephostatin   . This result was surprising given that NTR reduction of Mtz is thought to cause DNA damage-induced cell death  . Thus , inhibition of a DNA repair enzyme would be expected to enhance , not inhibit , NTR/Mtz-mediated cell death . Indeed , in a comprehensive 400 , 000 compound qHTS assay designed to identify TDP1 inhibitors , all five hits turned out to be PARP inhibitors  . PARPs also mediate DNA repair but , interestingly , hyperactivation of PARP1 leads to a specific form of DNA damage-induced cell death , termed parthanatos  . PARP is also involved in a cGMP-dependent cell death pathway implicated in RP  . We therefore assayed PARP inhibitors for the capacity to promote rod cell survival in rod:YFP-NTR fish . To account for other cell death mechanisms implicated in neurodegeneration , we tested an inhibitor of necroptosis  , and three inhibitors of apoptosis  . Surprisingly , NEC promoted rod cell survival , while the apoptosis inhibitors did not  . Interestingly , paired testing of PARP and necroptosis inhibitors resulted in additive effects  , suggesting either differential responses to NTR/Mtz-induced DNA damage among rod cells , or that inhibiting both pathways keeps cells from activating the other mechanism of cell death when only one pathway is blocked . To further dissect cell death pathways mediating NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell ablation , we used a ‘redundant’ CRISPR/Cas9 gene targeting approach  , which enables phenotyping in injected zebrafish embryos/larvae  . Key factors for apoptosis  , PARP-dependent cell death pathways parthanatos and/or cGMP-dependent cell death  , and necroptosis  were targeted . 5 mM Mtz at five dpf and rod-YFP levels quantified at six dpf by ARQiv . For Mtz-ablated larvae , knockdown of parp1 markedly increased rod cell survival  , and ripk1l knockdown modestly protected rods  . In no Mtz controls , knockdown of parp1 , ripk1l or tdp1 had no effect on rod cell numbers . Conversely , casp3a/3b double knockdown increased rod cell numbers  suggesting inhibition of developmental apoptosis and confirming efficacy of casp3a/3b knockdown . Confocal imaging confirmed parp1 knockdown effects on rod cell survival and casp3a/3b knockdown effects on rod cell development  . These results are consistent with the NTR/Mtz system eliciting DNA damage-associated cell death mediated by parp1 , that is , parthanatos , in rod cells . To further test for activation of PARP signaling during NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell death , accumulation of polymerized poly   , a downstream effector of PARP1 activation  , was analyzed by western blot . five dpf rho:YFP-NTR larvae were treated ±2 . 5 mM Mtz and protein samples collected from ~30 fish at 3 , 6 , 12 , 24 , and 48 hr post-Mtz treatment initiation . Western blots showed clear accumulation of PAR in Mtz-treated fish at 24 and 48 hr post-Mtz  which was verified quantitatively  . Collectively , results of cell death pathway analyses are concordant across chemical inhibition , genetic knockdown , and biochemical assays , strongly suggesting NTR/Mtz-induced cell ablation is mediated by PARP-dependent cell death  , a target/pathway implicated across multiple mammalian models of RP  . To determine if lead compound effects were mediated by inhibition of PARP signaling , parp1 expression was knocked down prior to testing for effects on rod cell survival in rho:YFP-NTR larvae . Four leads predicted to be PARP inhibitors  , one predicted to be a non-PARP inhibitor  , and a known PARP inhibitor control  were tested . Two lead compounds , MIC and DHA and BMN  produced no statistically significant enhanced neuroprotective effects over parp1 knockdown . Conversely , WAR , CLO and CPO increased rod cell survival in parp1 knockdown fish  . qPCR confirmed mRNA knockdown  and controls showed no effects of parp1 knockdown on rod cell development  and enhanced rod cell survival upon Mtz treatment  . These data confirm that PARP inhibition mediates the neuroprotective effects of some lead compounds  while others are PARP-independent . The latter result suggests lead compounds may act via complementary neuroprotective mechanisms . Combined , these findings are consistent with rod cell loss in our fish RP model occurring , at least partially , by PARP-dependent cell death . PubChem data also suggested potential complementary MOA , that is , multiple independent targets across lead compounds  . To investigate this , combinatorial lead drug treatments were tested in primary mouse photoreceptor cell cultures . All 11 lead compounds were tested at a selected concentration individually and in pairs and the survival of GFP-labeled photoreceptors analyzed by high-content imaging and automated cell counting . The results showed no wholly additive effects , that is , survival percentages equaling or excelling the summed effect of individual compound assays . Finally , seven lead compounds were tested alone and in pairs in rho:YFP-NTR zebrafish using optimal effective concentrations . The maximal average rod cell survival effect was 58%  . Several compounds showed broadly additive effects , for example , WAR was additive with all six drugs and COR with four of five pairs  . Additive effects suggest multiple signaling pathways are involved in NTR/Mtz-induced photoreceptor degeneration , thus that combinatorial drug regimens may be required to achieve maximal therapeutic benefits for RP patients . Our strategy for addressing this challenge was to:  scale up the number of compounds tested directly in complex living disease models and  perform a cross-species screening cascade that starts with small animal models amenable to HTS and proceeds to mammalian models . Here , using a large-scale in vivo drug screening platform  , we tested 2934 largely human-approved compounds for neuroprotective effects across six concentrations in >350 , 000 larval zebrafish models of RP . Confirmatory repeats and a series of four orthogonal assays validated 11 of 42 prioritized hit compounds in protecting zebrafish rod photoreceptors from cell death  . Importantly , investigations of lead compound MOA , led to the discovery that NTR/Mtz-mediated rod cell death appears to proceed through alternative cell death pathways  recently linked to photoreceptor degeneration in mammalian models of RP  . Confirmatory tests showed survival effects of lead compounds varied from 9 to 38%  , which might suggest limited therapeutic potential . However , even small numbers of surviving rod cells can have a significant impact on cone photoreceptor survival  . This effect is mediated by the rod-derived cone viability factor   which stimulates glucose metabolism to promote cone survival  . Therefore , as cone cells provide high-acuity daytime vision , protecting small numbers of rod cell has significant therapeutic potential for RP patients . To test this further , lead compounds will need to be tested for the ability to prolong cone survival and function in rod-cone degeneration models . Visualization by in vivo confocal imaging showed variations in surviving cell morphologies across lead compounds  , suggesting . Volumetric quantification of surviving rod cells further suggested lead compounds differ in their capacity to maintain outer segments . Visual function tests will need to be performed to test this possibility and thus to prioritize lead compounds for in vivo testing in mammalian RP models . To test conservation of neuroprotective effects across species , lead compounds were evaluated in three mouse IRD/RP models . We chose the rd10 RP model for in vivo testing because it undergoes a slower rate of rod cell loss than rd1; spanning from approximately P16 to P35  . DHA was the most promising compound for these tests as it had shown strong effects across assays and was amenable to a long-term release formulation designed to sustain drug action over weeks to months  . In addition , DHA is the active metabolite of artemisinin , another of our cross-species confirmed leads that was shown to have neuroprotective activity in rat models of stress-induced neuronal damage and light-induced photoreceptor degeneration  . To assess DHA release in vivo , pharmacokinetic assays such as high-performance liquid chromatography  will be used to quantify lead compound concentrations in the retina for future tests . This has been reported for the histone-deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid , which shows opposing effects in rd1  and rd10  mice  and across four different frog models of RP  . However , cell death pathways common across different IRD/RP patient subpopulations may provide pan-disease targets for neuroprotective therapies . Apoptosis has long been thought to be the mechanism by which rod photoreceptors die in IRD/RP  . Moreover , inhibition of apoptosis does not block cell death in many mouse photoreceptor degeneration models  , suggesting other pathways may mediate rod and/or cone cell death in retinal degenerative disease . In a comprehensive biochemical analysis of 10 mammalian RP models—involving mutations in cnga3 , cngb1 , pde6a , pde6b , pde6c , prph2 , rho , and rpe65—non-apoptotic cell death signatures were found to be common across all models tested  . Prior reports had suggested the NTR/Mtz system elicits caspase-3 activation and apoptotic cell death  . Initially , we had used this as a rationale for pursuing a neuroprotective screen with the rho:YFP-NTR line- however , the recent reports outlined above suggested apoptosis may have limited relevance to IRD/RP . Interestingly , when we tested cell death processes implicated in photoreceptor degeneration directly , an inhibitor of apoptosis  did not promote rod cell survival , whereas inhibition of necroptosis  and PARP were neuroprotective in our fish RP model  . Serendipitously , an exploration of shared lead compound MOA helped to clarify cell death mechanism  mediating NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell ablation . Interestingly , a qHTS cell-based screen of 400 , 000 compounds for inhibitors of human TDP1 found that all five confirmed compounds actually inhibited PARP activity not TDP1  . This is consistent with findings showing that TDP1 acts in conjunction with PARP1  , thus PARP inhibition can indirectly affect TDP1 activity . Combined with the results discussed above , we were motivated to test whether PARP inhibition was protective against NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell death . All eight PARP inhibitors tested promoted rod cell survival in our fish RP model  . CRISPR/Cas9-based knockdown of parp1 resulted in a statistically significant reduction of Mtz-induced rod cell death  . Moreover , PAR polymer , an indicator of PARP activation , accumulated in Mtz-treated fish  . Collectively , these results suggest PARP activation plays an important role in NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell death . PARP1 overactivation initiates a caspase-independent form of DNA damage-induced cell death , termed parthanatos  . Importantly , PARP is also a key component of the cGMP-dependent cell death pathway which has been linked to photoreceptor degeneration  . Thus , the NTR/Mtz-mediated cell ablation system may provide a novel approach for modeling neurodegenerative diseases associated with PARP-dependent cell death that is both inducible and titratable . To investigate cell death more broadly , we also explored the roles of necroptosis , apoptosis and tdp1 signaling in the zebrafish-inducible RP model . Interestingly , inhibiting necroptosis but not apoptosis promoted rod cell survival in rho:YFP-NTR fish  . Necroptosis is primarily associated with secondary cone cell death in RP models  but has also been implicated in rod cell death in IRBP mutant RP models  and/or may damage photoreceptors indirectly via necroptotic microglia signaling  . Combined , these results suggest that necroptosis , PARP1-dependent parthanatos , and/or c-GMP-dependent cell death mediate NTR/Mtz-induced rod cell ablation . The potential relevance of these alternative cell death pathways to heritable photoreceptor degeneration may explain the relatively high rate of validation we observed in cross-species tests of lead compounds . To evaluate whether lead compound effects were mediated by inhibition of PARP signaling , a subset of lead compounds and a PARP inhibitor control  were analyzed for survival effects in parp1 knockdown fish . Among four leads tested that were implicated as parp1 inhibitors , two  were no longer protective when parp1 expression was suppressed  , suggesting parp1 inhibition mediated their neuroprotective effects . This possibility was confirmed for 10 of 19 paired lead compounds tested in rho:YFP-NTR fish  . Analogous tests in mouse photoreceptor cell cultures showed a trend toward enhanced survival effects of paired leads but no fully additive effects  . This result highlights a potential advantage of whole organism phenotypic drug screening: the ability to identify compounds/conditions that would be missed in more simplified assay systems . In summary , we identified 11 lead compounds promoting rod cell survival in an inducible zebrafish RP model using a large-scale in vivo phenotypic drug discovery platform . Nine lead compounds were also effective as neuroprotectants in primary mouse photoreceptor cell cultures and three promoted photoreceptor survival in rd1 mouse retinal explants . MOA studies indicated a subset of lead compounds may protect rod cells by inhibiting PARP-dependent cell death pathways and/or necroptosis . Combinatorial assays in fish showed additive and even synergistic effects , suggesting some lead compounds target independent neuroprotective pathways  . We hypothesize that compounds producing beneficial outcomes across diverse animal disease models likely target highly conserved MOA and may therefore stand an increased likelihood of successfully translating to the clinic . A previously generated zebrafish transgenic line , Tg  gmc500  expresses a fusion protein of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein  and a bacterial nitroreductase  enzyme  selectively in rod photoreceptors  . When rho:YFP-NTR fish are exposed to the prodrug metronidazole  , NTR reduces Mtz to a DNA damage-inducing cytotoxic derivative , resulting in the death of NTR-expressing cells  . A newly generated transgenic line , Tg  jh405  expresses a membrane tagged YFP and an improved version of NTR which enables induction of cell death at much lower concentrations of Mtz  . For each large-scale drug screening assays , 6000–12 , 000 eggs were collected by group breeding ~300 adult rho:YFP-NTR fish  . rho:YFP-NTR larvae were treated with 2 . rho:YFP-NTR larvae were separated into six groups of ~23 larvae per group . YFP signals were quantified daily by fluorescence microplate reader  to track changes in rod photoreceptor cell numbers relative to Mtz concentration  . For the primary screen , 2934 compounds from John Hopkins Drug Library  were screened across six concentrations  . The ARQiv screening process has been detailed previously  and was adapted here for large-scale quantification of YFP-expressing rod photoreceptors  . rho:YFP-NTR embryos were collected and raised in zebrafish E3 embryo media  . 5 mM Mtz to induce rod photoreceptor death . 1% DMSO without any tested drug served as controls  for maximal rod cell ablation . Compound concentrations producing a SSMD score ≥1 were considered potential ‘hits’ and evaluated visually using fluorescence microscopy to eliminate non-specific fluorescence; e . For in vivo confocal imaging assays , five dpf rho:YFP-NTR larvae were treated with drug plus 2 . Similar treatment strategy was applied to five dpf rho:YFP-NTR2 . An Olympus Fluoview FV1000 confocal microscope with a 20x water immersion objective  was used to collect 30–40 z-stack images of YFP-expressing rod cells across the whole retina at 4 μm intervals . To provide greater detail of rod photoreceptor morphology , a region in the dorsal-nasal quadrant was imaged using a 60× water immersion objective  at 4 . As a means of assessing rod photoreceptor survival , intravital confocal retinal images were collected of YFP-expressing rod cells per condition and processed for volumetric quantification of YFP signal volume using automated image analysis software  . Briefly , YFP-expressing rod cells volumes were automatically rendered using the same parameters across all treatment groups with the sum of all volumes used to estimate rod photoreceptor numbers per each retina . For images from rho:YFP-NTR2 . 0 larvae , the sum of rod cell YFP volumes in each retina was normalized to the number of YFP-expressing cells to estimate the average rod photoreceptor cell size per each condition . 1% DMSO  was added to a master mix of 250 μM CB1954/1 μM NTR/250 μM NADPH/10 mM Tris  to determine any inhibitory effect of the compounds on NTR-mediated reduction of CB1954 . Compounds with NTR activity <75% of controls were deemed potentially inhibitory and IC50 values  determined . Compounds were also evaluated for the ability to inhibit NTR-mediated reduction of Mtz . For this assay , the highest soluble concentration of the test drug  or DMSO  was added to a master mix of 500 μM Mtz/17 μM NTR/100 μM NADPH/0 . To evaluate whether lead compounds promoted rod photoreceptor development , rho:YFP-NTR larvae were handled as described for the primary screen with the following exceptions: at five dpf , larvae were exposed solely to test compounds; larvae were not treated with Mtz . YFP reporter signals were quantified by fluorescence microplate reader at 7 dpf and compared to non-ablated ‘-Mtz’ controls treated only with 0 . To determine whether lead compounds stimulated retinal regeneration , rho:YFP-NTR larvae were handled as described for the primary screen with the following exceptions: at 5 dpf , larvae were incubated with either 10 mM Mtz or 0 . A transgenic mouse line with an IRES-GFP cassette integrated at the QRX locus  has GFP reporter expression restricted to retinal photoreceptors , and was used here to isolate primary photoreceptor cells . To test lead compounds for survival effects , thapsigargin and tunicamycin  and were used as stressor compounds to induce photoreceptor cell death . Eleven lead compounds were tested at seven concentrations across a threefold dilution series  . For paired tests , each compound was applied at a single concentration , WAR  , CPO  , DHA  , ART  , ZPT  , CAL  , COR  , CHL  , SUL  , MIC  , and CLO  . Photoreceptor number and the percent of photoreceptor to retinal cell population per well was determined by automated quantification of the number of live Hoechst 33342-stained , GFP-expressing cells using a custom algorithm  . Cell counts were compared by repeated measure ANOVA to assess dose-response treatment effects followed by a Bonferroni posthoc analysis to determine if differences between control and lead compounds compared across the entire dose range were statistically significant . An ANOVA across groups but within a particular dose , using a Bonferroni/Dunn test to reduce type I errors , was used to determine if lead compounds promoted a statistically significantly increase in cell numbers compared to control media at low , middle , and/or high concentrations . To evaluate tdp1 and parp1 as a potential shared target across multiple leads , as well as cell death pathways implicated in photoreceptor degeneration , eight PARP inhibitors , one necroptosis inhibitor , three apoptosis inhibitors , and three Tdp1 inhibitors were selected for testing using the confirmation screening protocol  . Based on the toxicity profile of each inhibitor , upper concentrations were adjusted to 64 , 32 , or 8 µM and a twofold dilution series was used to test a total of 10 concentrations for rod cell survival effects in rho:YFP-NTR larvae . YFP quantification and statistical analysis of rod cell survival in Mtz-treated rho:YFP-NTR fish were performed as above . Five genes , parp1 , ripk1l , casp3a , casp3b , tdp1 , were selected for CRISPR/Cas9-based knockdown in rho:YFP-NTR zebrafish using an established ‘redundant targeting’ methodology  . A mixture of four sgRNAs  and Cas9 protein  was injected into rho:YFP-NTR embryos at the one-cell stage for targeting parp1 , ripk1l and tdp1 . Rod cell survival was evaluated by fluorescence microplate reader-based quantification of YFP at 6 dpf . Student’s t-test was used to compare rod survival between injected and uninjected  fish . A subset of lead compounds  was also tested in parp1 knockdown fish to determine if Parp1 inhibition was required for survival effects . Leads were applied to larvae one hour before Mtz administration and YFP quantification performed as above . To quantify gene expression levels in rho:YFP-NTR larvae ±CRISPR/Cas9-based gene knockdown , 16–24 larvae from each condition were pooled for mRNA extraction at six dpf . To further evaluate Parp-dependent signaling downstream of Mtz treatments in rho:YFP-NTR larvae , PAR accumulation , a vetted measure of Parp activity , was quantified by western blot following the published method  . Briefly , ~30 rho:YFP-NTR fish were treated ±2 . To test for additive neuroprotective effects in zebrafish , seven lead compounds were tested at optimal concentrations either individually or in pairs using the primary screen protocol . All experimental results were normalized to controls and pooled per compound tested to calculate effect sizes , confidence intervals , and p-values using Student’s t-test . For mouse photoreceptor cell culture assays and volumetric confocal image analyses , adjusted p-values were calculated by performing Mann-Whitney U tests followed by false discovery rate correction for multiple comparisons . "
"The migration of the small micromeres to the coelomic pouches in the sea urchin embryo provides an exceptional model for understanding the genomic regulatory control of morphogenesis . An assay using the robust homing potential of these cells reveals a ‘coherent feed-forward’ transcriptional subcircuit composed of Pax6 , Six3 , Six1/2 , Eya , and Dach1 that is responsible for the directed homing mechanism of these multipotent progenitors . Much research has been done to understand the cell biology underlying the events of directed cell migration; however , how the events are encoded in the genome and how gene regulatory networks  control this process are works in progress . Cell migration is the directed movement of a single cell or a collective group of cells through the early embryo or the adult body . Many different cell types undergo chemotaxis-dependent directed migration during development , including primordial germ cells  , Drosophila border cells , the zebrafish posterior lateral line , Drosophila tracheal cells , vertebrate neural crest cells , and vertebrate anterior mesoderm  . The ability for cells to undergo directed migration towards a target location requires the use of different signal transduction mechanisms to remodel their actin cytoskeleton in a directed fashion such that they extend filopodia , lamellipodia , and blebs to create a polarized leading edge . The migration of the sea urchin small micromeres serves as a powerful experimental model for connecting the genomic regulatory control of morphogenesis to an upstream GRN . Small micromere cells arise from an asymmetric cleavage of the micromeres at the embryonic fifth cleavage  . The eight small micromeres migrate along with the growing archenteron during gastrulation until they reach the animal pole  . Post-migration , the small micromeres incorporate into the coelomic pouches , which are found on either side of the developing esophagus  . Small micromere movements during gastrulation . The small micromeres arise at the vegetal pole at the asymmetric fifth cleavage from the micromere lineage  . They migrate through the top of the blastocoel and enter the posterior half of the coelomic pouches by prism stage . To study small micromere movements and migration at a higher resolution , membrane-GFP-labeled micromeres were transplanted to a H2b-RFP-labeled host . Small micromeres actively changed shape throughout gastrulation  until they reach the tip of the archenteron . Skeletogenic lineages are labeled as ‘Skel’ , and small micromeres are labeled as ‘SM’ . 003 The coelomic pouches , a mesodermal sub-type , appear at the tip of the forming archenteron . During gastrulation , several other mesodermal cell types undergo epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions  into the blastocoel where they take on different roles in the embryo . The mesodermal cell sheet remaining at the tip of the archenteron at the end of gastrulation forms the two coelomic pouches on either side of the foregut  . Only those small micromeres that reach the left coelomic pouch , which will become the future adult rudiment , will survive until adulthood . During metamorphosis of the indirect developing sea urchin , the embryonic small micromeres incorporate into the adult rudiment's left somatocoel , which will later give rise to the gonads of the adult animal and possibly other tissues  . Previous research has suggested that the small micromeres contribute to the adult PGCs; however , it has not been shown directly whether the small micromeres contribute to additional adult tissues or whether the only source of the adult PGCs are the small micromeres  . The possibility remains that the small micromeres go on to produce multiple cell types including , but not limited to PGCs  . Recent publications tracked small micromeres as they moved from the vegetal pole to the coelomic pouches  . , it was observed that during gut invagination , the small micromeres did not change position relative to the adjacent mesoderm cells of the advancing archenteron . It was concluded that once they reach the tip of the archenteron , the small micromeres must actively migrate to the left and right coelomic pouches  . described an active migration throughout gastrulation and post-gastrulation as they make their way to the coelomic pouch  . While both studies conclude that there is an active migration post-gastrulation , we clarified whether the small micromeres acquired their active movement before or after gastrulation . When removed from their endogenous location and placed ectopically , we find that the small micromeres are autonomous and active while migrating throughout gastrulation to make it ‘home’ to the coelomic pouch . Their active motility during gastrulation is essential for the ectopic small micromeres to undergo directed ‘homing’ migration to the coelomic pouch . In order to understand this homing ability at a systems level , we took advantage of the robust homing nature of the small micromeres to determine the GRN at work during their migration . Using a homing assay to quantitatively score the ability of the coelomic pouch cells to direct movement of the small micromeres , we constructed a GRN that governs effector genes directly responsible for the homing mechanism . We find that a specific subcircuit composed of Pax6 , Six3 , Six1/2 , Eya , and Dach1 that is canonically found in retinal development has been deployed for this distinct developmental process . Here , we describe a GRN for homing behavior and uncover a striking similarity of our morphogenesis GRN to the retinal determination gene network  . The mechanisms by which the small micromeres make their way to the coelomic pouch is a topic of debate: one paper cites an active migratory event while another a passive translocation during gastrulation  . We followed the migratory process at a higher cellular resolution using time-lapse to resolve the seemingly contradictory data on the movement of small micromeres during gastrulation . Small micromeres were fluorescently labeled , so they could be uniquely followed throughout gastrulation allowing a finer analysis of their behavior than if those cells were not specifically identified  . Host embryos were labeled by injection of histone2B-RFP mRNA and micromere-donor embryos with a membrane-GFP mRNA . At the 16-cell stage , one donor fluorescent micromere was transplanted to the vegetal pole where it replaced a surgically removed micromere  . Each fourth cleavage micromere gives rise to two lineages: the small micromere  and the large micromere  . The transplant surgery was performed at the 16-cell stage to ensure the survival of the small micromere daughters for two reasons . First , it assured that the small micromeres  were not damaged by separation from the large micromeres during micromanipulation since they had not yet been born . Second , when the small micromeres appeared , their only initial connection to the embryo was via the spindle remnant to the large micromere—this attachment to the large micromere was crucial for the incorporation of the transplant into the host embryo . Both reasons for surgically transplanting the micromere ensured the re-establishment and survival of a high percentage of small micromeres in the host embryo  . At the beginning of gastrulation , this recombinant approach resulted in 8 fluorescent large micromere progeny and 2 fluorescent small micromeres  . It was easy to distinguish the donor small micromere progeny from the large micromere progeny when the large micromeres fused with non-fluorescent host mesoderm cells to form the skeletal syncytium thereby greatly diluting their fluorescence  . Movement of small micromeres throughout gastrulation . Membrane-GFP labeled micromeres were transplanted to a H2b-RFP-labeled host . 005MicrosurgerySuccessful transplants  Failed transplants  Ctrl host/Ctrl micromeres  51 ± 949 ± 9Ctrl host/MO micromeres  40 ± 2060 ± 20MO host/Ctrl micromeres  48 ± 1752 ± 17 Chimeric embryos made in this manner were examined over six hours of development to follow cell behavior . As seen in Figure 1C and Video 1 , throughout invagination of the archenteron , the small micromeres were highly active . When gastrulation was completed at 20 hpf  , small micromere behavior changed in tandem with a change in the basal lamina . At a time corresponding to the end of gastrulation , laminin immunostaining indicated that the basal lamina was undergoing remodeling , as there were large gaps in the laminin component of the basement membrane at the tip of the archenteron  . Through those gaps , the small micromeres delaminated  , moved to the blastocoelar side of the remodeling basal lamina , and then actively migrated to the posterior end of the left or right coelomic pouch where they were then re-enveloped with a basal lamina layer by 2 dpf  . The migratory behavior of the small micromeres suggested that they underwent an EMT at the beginning of their migratory phase over the archenteron and to their coelomic pouch . Laminin remodeling at the tip of the archenteron facilitates migration of the small micromeres to the posterior end of the coelomic pouch . Once the micromeres reach the tip of the gut , they undergo an epithelial–mesenchymal transition  . By immunostaining , we see that laminin  , at the time , is reduced as the small micromeres  breach the top of the gut . Once they reach the posterior coelomic pouch , laminin  surrounds the small micromeres  and NSM to encapsulate the coelomic pouch  . Ectopically placed small micromeres underwent an EMT coincident with the endogenous EMT event of the skeletogenic cells . Laminin  is absent both at the site of skeletogenic cell ingression  and at the site of ectopic small micromere  ingression  . 006 In many embryonic systems , cells home , or migrate in a directed fashion , from their place of origin to a distant target site . Knowing that the small micromeres were actively changing cell shape then moving to a new location at the end of gastrulation , we tested to see if small micromeres would undergo a directed migration to the coelomic pouch when placed in an ectopic location . Normally , small micromeres start their trajectory at the vegetal pole , which is the most posterior location in the embryo and terminate in the coelomic pouches near the anterior end of the embryo . Accordingly , small micromeres were placed ectopically at varying locations along the anterior/posterior axis of 16- to 60-cell staged embryos , and the frequency of their ability to find their way to the coelomic pouch at 2 days post fertilization  was scored  . Micromeres placed at the vegetal pole served as a control since that is their endogenous starting location . 4% of observed cases that were considered ‘no homing’ were instances where we could not find fluorescent small micromeres in the host embryo's coelomic pouch . Those that did not make it to the coelomic pouch became lost in the blastocoelar space , which we scored as ‘no homing’ . Micromeres were then placed ectopically between the Veg1 and Veg2 tier and in the animal half between the An1 and An2 tier of presumptive ectodermal cells  , at the animal pole , or in the blastocoel . No matter where they were placed , the vast majority of small micromeres transplanted to ectopic positions anywhere in the embryo made it home ( Equator = 93 . Interestingly , the majority of transplants were scored to be in the left coelomic pouch after homing suggesting a survival mechanism to ensure the proposed primordial germ cells make it onto adulthood to contribute to the gamete pool . Ectopically placed micromeres are able to find their way to the coelomic pouches via a directed homing mechanism from any ectopic location . Yellow dashed lines indicate the location of the whole coelomic pouch with the ectopically placed micromeres labeled in green . Graphs depict the percentage of embryos scored with the given ability to home  , ‘n’ equals the number of embryos scored with the phenotype , and p-values were calculated using a χ2 test . Ectopic small micromeres arrive at the coelomic pouches independently . Small micromeres were ectopically placed as fourth division micromeres . The ectopic skeletogenic cells joined the endogenous skeletogenic cells while the ectopic small micromeres reached the coelomic pouch independently of the endogenous small micromeres  no matter their starting location , either the equator  or the animal pole  . 008 Next , we wanted to see how the small micromeres homed . Did they move from the ectopic position within the plane of the epithelium , or did they ingress from the ectopic location into the blastocoel and find the coelomic pouch from there ? If they did ingress into the blastocoel , were they first attracted to the endogenous small micromeres before migrating to the coelomic pouch mesoderm , or did the small micromeres autonomously move to the coelomic pouches ? Could it be that the ectopically placed small micromeres precociously ingressed through the basement membrane and thus headed directly to their final destination ? To see when and where the ectopic small micromeres found their way home , we transplanted differentially labeled micromeres to two different locations  to host embryos . We then assayed at intervals up to 24 hpf and saw that the ectopically placed micromeres arrived independently of the endogenous micromeres  . The transplanted small micromeres remained at the ectopic site until the primary mesenchyme cells  ingressed . At that time  , the ectopic small micromeres also ingressed into the blastocoel  . Because the ectopic small micromeres ingressed at the time of skeletogenic cell ingression , we wondered whether isolated small micromeres could ingress on their own . By ectopically transplanting just 32-cell stage small micromeres   , we observed the small micromeres autonomously invade through the laminin layer independent of large micromeres . The ectopic small micromeres breached the laminin layer  at the same time as the PMC EMT  suggesting that the small micromeres create the hole through which they breach and invade , even though the endogenous small micromeres actually breach the basement membrane about 6–8 hr later when they leave the tip of the archenteron . Once we learned that the ectopically placed small micromeres home to the coelomic pouch from any location in the embryo , we next investigated whether the signal to which they were responding was coming from the coelomic pouch mesoderm . The question was whether the small micromeres home directly to the coelomic pouch region or indirectly . First , to ask if the mesoderm is the lineage to which the small micromeres home , we knocked out Delta , a signal necessary for mesodermal specification  . In the experiment , Delta was knocked down in host embryos and control  micromeres were placed ectopically at the equator of those embryos  . The small micromeres did not home to any significant location in the embryo  and became lost in the blastocoelar space as is seen in cases we deemed ‘no homing’ 65% of the time   . 35% of the time , there was an incomplete knockdown of the Delta signal resulting in a coelomic pouch and the small micromeres homed to that location . Further investigation of the cell types and sub-territories within the coelomic pouch allowed us to elaborate on the genomic control underpinning the homing mechanism . Control micromeres labeled with membrane-GFP were ectopically transplanted to either a control TMR  host or a Delta–MO TMR  host  . When control micromeres were transplanted to a control host , homing of the small micromeres occurs 100%  of the time  . When NSM specification was blocked in a host embryo using a delta morpholino , homing of transplanted control micromeres was significantly reduced and only homed 53% of the time   . The graph depicts the percentage of embryos  seen with the given ability to home  , ‘n’ equals the number of embryos scored in each case , and p-values were calculated using a χ2 test . 009 Next , we wanted to know which transcription factors within each territory of the final coelomic pouch  were upstream of the homing mechanism . We surveyed a list of known coelomic pouch and small micromere transcription factors , and genes found to maintain expression levels during homing were included in our list of potential upstream regulators . The genes further investigated were  oral coelomic pouch transcription factors FoxC , FoxF , PitX2;  aboral coelomic pouch transcription factors Dach1 , Pax6 , SoxE , Six3 , Six1/2 , and transcriptional co-activator Eya; and  small micromere transcription factors FoxC and Pitx2 . 010PlasmidFragmentAccession numberDach1Full CDSKR181947DeltaFull CDSKR181946EyaFull CDSKR181945FoxCFull CDSKR181944FoxFFull CDSKR181943Pax6Full CDSKR181942PitX2Full CDSKR181941Six3Full CDSKR181940SoxEFull CDSKR181939 The experiment was to transplant a labeled micromere to a differentially labeled host embryo and assay the small micromeres' ability to home in either of the two perturbed scenarios: either with a morpholino-perturbed host embryo or morpholino-perturbed micromere transplant . For each transcription factor , we transplanted control micromeres to control hosts  , perturbed micromeres transplanted to control hosts , and control micromeres transplanted to perturbed hosts . Only those transplants containing small micromere were scored for homing or no homing . Failed transplants were cases where no small micromeres were observed in the embryo . One transcription factor , Forkhead family member FoxC , was found to affect small micromere homing when only knocked down in the micromere . FoxC is expressed in both the oral coelomic pouch mesoderm and the small micromeres; however , only when it was perturbed in the small micromere did it affect homing , and only 26%  of the time did the small micromeres successfully make it to the coelomic pouch  . Homing is controlled by upstream transcription factors . By selectively knocking down specific transcription factors in either an ectopically placed micromere or the host embryo , transcription factors for the homing were identified . FoxC , a transcription factor expressed in the small micromeres and oral mesoderm was necessary for homing of the small micromere  , but had no inhibitory effect on homing when knocked down in just the mesoderm  . Dach1 , an aboral mesoderm transcription factor , affected homing when knocked down in the mesoderm  but did not affect homing when perturbed in the small micromere  . Pax6 , affected homing when knocked down in the mesoderm  but had no effect on homing when perturbed in the small micromere  . Aboral mesoderm transcription factor , Six3 affected homing when knocked down in the mesoderm  but had no effect homing when perturbed only in the small micromere  . Aboral transcriptional co-activator , Eya , affected homing when knocked down in the mesoderm  but did not affect homing when perturbed in the small micromeres  . Aboral transcription factor , Six1/2 , affected homing when knocked down in the mesoderm , as well  and did not affect homing when knocked down in the micromere  . Yellow circles indicate the location of the coelomic pouch . White arrows indicate ‘lost’ micromeres . The graph depicts the percentage of embryos  seen with the given ability to home  , ‘n’ equals the number of embryos scored in each case p-values were calculated using a χ2 test . Coelomic pouch transcription factors that do not affect homing . Transcription factors FoxF  , SoxE  , and PitX2  are not seen to affect homing when they are perturbed in either the small micromeres or the NSM . The graph depicts the percentage of embryos  seen with the given ability to home  , ‘n’ equals the number of embryos scored in each case , and p-values were calculated using a χ2 test . Whole embryo perturbation of coelomic pouch transcription factors assayed for vasa expression . Embryos injected with a Control-MO and stained for vasa mRNA expression was seen to appropriately segregate small micromeres in the left and right coelomic pouches  . Embryos perturbed for Delta  , FoxC  , Dach1  , Six3  , Six1/2  , Eya  , and Pax6  were assayed for vasa expression in the coelomic pouches to test whether migration defects were seen in endogenous knockdown situations . Small micromeres were seen to properly segregate to coelomic pouches , or in the case of Delta to the side of the archenteron  in each perturbation . 013 The first coelomic pouch transcription factor we found to be involved in homing was a Ski/Sno family member , Dachshund1 . When control micromeres were transplanted to a Dachshund1 morpholino perturbed host , the control small micromeres were only able to home in 10%  of scored cases  . In contrast , when Dach1 was knocked down in the small micromeres only , and the host embryo was a control , homing ability was scored as successful in 77% of cases . Next , we found the paired box family transcription factor Pax6 was upstream of the small micromeres' ability to home . When control micromeres were transplanted to a Pax6 knockdown host , the small micromeres were only able to home 40%  of the time  . When control micromeres were transplanted to a Six3 knockdown host , the small micromeres were able to home 11%  of scored cases  . Next , we saw transcriptional co-activator and tyrosine phosphatase , Eya , to exhibit an effect on homing . When control micromeres were transplanted to an Eya knockdown host , small micromeres were able to home 28 . Finally , we found another six family transcription factor , Six1/2 , to affect homing . Control micromeres transplanted to a Six1/2 knockdown host were able to home 65%  of scored cases  . Transcription factors FoxF , SoxE , FoxC , and Pitx2 did not appear necessary for homing when perturbed in the coelomic pouch mesoderm  . It is important to note that when the same knockdowns are stained for endogenous vasa expression  , small micromeres are still able to reach the coelomic pouches  . We observe that the control endogenous small micromeres are within the coelomic pouches in tight clusters  while the knockdowns exhibit various levels of disorganization  . Since the endogenous small micromeres normally home over a very short distance , the knockdown small micromeres , as might be expected , remain close to the coelomic pouches—they do not disperse from that vicinity , but they do not tightly cluster in the correct location . Thus of the eleven genes screened for homing behavior , only six were necessary for homing . We next wanted to better understand how the five coelomic pouch mesodermal transcription factors scored as necessary for homing might relate in the network circuit that runs in that tissue . Each of the five transcription factors involved in controlling homing is expressed in the aboral coelomic pouch . Luo and Su showed that transcription factors Dach1 , Eya , Six1/2 , and Pax6 are co-localized in the aboral coelomic pouch  . Six3 was found to be expressed in the aboral mesoderm early in development , and by double fluorescent in situ hybridization , we see six3 to also overlap with aboral marker , eya   . Six3 was seen to be tightly apposed with vasa expression but is exclusive from small micromeres . Expression domains within the coelomic pouch are illustrated in Figure 6D . Luo and Su also noted that transcription factors Dach1 and FoxC are expressed in the oral coelomic pouch  . Transcription factor FoxC , however , is expressed in both the oral coelomic pouch and the small micromeres at the time of small micromere homing  . Expression domains within the coelomic pouch . Z projection of six3 and vasa is seen in  , and individual Z sections are seen from aboral to oral most locations in the embryo in  . Insets on panels A–A′′′′ show a zoomed perspective of just the left coelomic pouch apposed expression of six3 and vasa . six3 and eya were seen to overlap in the aboral coelomic pouch in both the Z projection  and Z sections  but not in Z sections  . myosin expression was seen to be in the most oral expression domain of the coelomic pouch , distinct of six3  . An illustration demonstrating the expression domains observed in the coelomic pouch from our data and the data of Luo and Su , 2012 is displayed in  from both the lateral and oral views . It becomes spatially restricted around mesenchyme blastula to the coelomic pouch mesoderm  . During gastrulation , it is found throughout and at the tip of the archenteron in the presumptive coelomic pouch cells  and is maintained in that tissue and gut throughout coelomic pouch coalescence with the small micromeres at the pluteus stage  . It is found in the animal pole region , and expression in the coelomic pouch mesoderm begins around mesenchyme blastula  . Throughout gastrulation , six3 is found in the apical plate domain and the future coelomic pouch cells  . Post-gastrulation , six3 is expressed in both coelomic pouches  . It maintains expression in the NSM throughout early development and is in the coelomic pouches by early pluteus  . Genes activated at mid-gastrula stage at the tip of the archenteron and endure throughout gastrulation include foxc and eya . mRNA expression is detected in the coelomic pouch mesoderm at the tip of the archenteron and end up in the coelomic pouches . eya begins expression at mid-gastrula in the aboral coelomic pouch at the tip of the archenteron  . eya expression by 32 hpf is found in the left coelomic pouch  . pax6 expression begins at mid to late gastrula stage in the aboral coelomic pouch at the tip of the archenteron , roughly at the time of ectopic small micromere homing  , and by 32 hpf is found in the left coelomic pouch and two lateral patches of ectoderm presumed to be neural in fate  . 015 To determine the order of expression of the transcription factors that could potentially act in a homing subcircuit , we first performed whole mount in situ hybridization on all five homing genes  at eight time points ranging from pre-hatched blastula  to early pluteus  with a 2- to 4-hr step-time to establish relative timing of expression  . By surveying this gene set , we conclude that their co-localization in the coelomic pouches and temporal expression patterns suggest that these transcription factors may be interacting  . To ask how or if these genes interact in a gene network to drive the morphogenetic cassette , we undertook a perturbation analysis to build a homing GRN upstream of the morphogenetic movement . When Dach1 was perturbed using a morpholino specific to the start of translation , we saw by in situ hybridization an increased expression of dach1  . Knowing that dach1 is expressed in the endoderm earlier in development from our time course data , we concluded that the upregulation seen in the gut was a result of dach1 self-repression not only in the gut but also later in the coelomic pouch mesoderm expression . A down-regulation of six3 and a down-regulation of eya transcripts was also seen in the Dach1 perturbation . These data indicate that Dach1 positively regulates six3 and eya and inhibits the overexpression of itself by repression  . Perturbations using a Dach1 morpholino  showed Dach1 to be upstream of dach1 , six3 , and eya . Pertubations with an Eya-MO showed Eya to be upstream of six3 , six1/2 , and eya . Six1/2 is seen to be upstream of six3 , eya , and six1/2 . Finally , a Pax6-MO caused a downregulation of six3 , eya , and pax6 . Morpholino effects seen in this paper that have not previously been validated were confirmed using a second morpholino designed in a location distinct to the site of the first morpholino . Using the same Ctrl-MO as was used in Figure 5 , 73% of the time , eya mRNA expression is present in the pattern shown . The second morpholino designed to the translation start site of Eya , matched results of the first morpholino with eya mRNA downregulated in 96% of cases . The second Pax6 morpholino , also designed to block translation , also matched the perturbation effect of the first morpholino in that 68% of the embryos scored were downregulated for eya mRNA . 018 When Six3 was perturbed using a start site morpholino , we saw a self up-regulation of six3 but only in the apical expression domain , a down-regulation of eya , and a down-regulation of pax6 transcripts . We conclude from these data that Six3 positively regulates eya and pax6 in the coelomic pouch mesoderm . Perturbing Eya in the same way showed a down-regulation of six3 , six1/2 , and a self-down-regulation of eya . Knowing that Eya is a transcriptional co-activator of Six1/2 , Eya must positively regulate itself , six3 , and six1/2 by co-acting with Six1/2 . Next , Six1/2 was perturbed , and , as expected , regulatory interactions found reflected those found in the Eya knockdowns indicating that Eya and Six1/2 do , in fact , act synergistically as has been seen before  . When the network was laid out in a Biotapestry model , the subcircuit controlling the homing mechanism was readily discerned as a coherent feed-forward loop composed of multiple feedback loops that sustain its robust nature   . The Pax-Six-Eya-Dach RDGN is necessary for specification of retinal cell types in many systems  . Few linkages between the eye and small micromere homing circuits are different  . Homing GRN subcircuit shows striking resemblance to Drosophila RDGN . The data from the chimera experiments show that normally small micromeres retain an adhesion to adjacent cells during archenteron extension . When they arrive at the tip of the archenteron , they then leave the epithelium using an EMT through a laminin-containing basement membrane , migrate to the posterior end of the coelomic pouch , and transition back to an epithelium as they coalesce with the coelomic pouch . Ectopically placed small micromeres behave differently from the endogenous small micromeres in that they fail to retain epithelial adhesions through gastrulation and instead go through an EMT at the time PMCs ingress . The fact that the ectopically placed small micromeres lose adhesion and go through EMT independent of the timing of archenteron tip formation implies that there must be a non-autonomous cue to keep the endogenous small micromeres in place during gastrulation . Without that local cue , the small micromeres actively home from the beginning of gastrulation as seen with the behavior of ectopically placed small micromeres . Further , there must be a non-autonomous signal that is recognized by small micromeres when they reach the tip of the forming archenteron that cues them to initiate the EMT and migration . The behavior of the ectopic cells suggest that the migratory capacity can be activated at the beginning of gastrulation , but since they normally do not move from the epithelium until at the tip of the archenteron , another event may stimulate them to complete their journey to the coelomic pouches . Observations of ectopically placed small micromeres also reveal that the cells undergo directed cell migration to get to the coelomic pouch mesoderm . The cells find their way to the coelomic pouch no matter their starting location . Small micromeres appear to take a fairly direct route to their eventual target no matter where they are initially placed . Since the normal route involves movement through part of the blastocoel , and since ectopic small micromeres also use the blastocoelar route , the putative homing signal likely is produced earlier than the end of gastrulation since the ectopic small micromeres move through the blastocoel to the correct target well before gastrulation is completed . If it were chemoattraction , the cue must work at the individual cell level since single small micromeres respond to the cue when ectopically placed . Potentially , as an alternative hypothesis , the coelomic pouch NSM could be drawing the small micromeres to their final site by filopodia , since it is known that these cells as well as the small micromeres extend filopodia  . The goal of determining upstream transcriptional regulation of the homing process requires connection of the aforementioned network  to chemoattraction mechanisms  directly responsible for the directing migration . It is highly likely , like Ciona heart cells , that the sea urchin developmental GRN will control directly expression of only a fraction of the proteins used for de-adhesion , motility , invasion of the basement membrane , altered cell polarity , and cell shape changes , all components of an EMT , while many other proteins in those processes will be constitutively expressed . Using small micromere homing as an assay , we were able to begin to unravel the intricacy of GRN subcircuits that control cell migration to a target site . The small micromere homing example reveals something else in morphogenetic movement control . We tend to think of the result of the movement: the small micromeres become associated with the aboral coelomic pouch through homing . Yet , to accomplish that feat , both the cells that home and the target cells must enact a series of coordinated , but independent processes . Being that the subcircuit is of coherent feed-forward topology , we suspect it will be found at the most distal part of a larger GRN; therefore , it will act downstream of the specification circuitry of the signal-producing cell type . Connecting that upstream subcircuit to the downstream signal  will provide a tool for explaining one component of the homing mechanism that we know to be transcriptionally controlled . Although each respective subcircuit is embedded in a larger specification GRN , when extracted as a subcircuit , it appears that the RDGN feed-forward topology has been deeply conserved  . With the same transcription factors involved in a similar feed-forward process in such a variety of tissues , we hypothesize that the RDGN subcircuit is ancient and has been repeatedly deployed as a unit to provide feed-forward control . Appropriate efficacy controls were also carried out previously for Six3 , FoxF , FoxC , Delta , Six1/2 , and Dach1 as is cited in Table 3 . 5 hpf , one micromere from an injected donor embryo was transplanted onto a differentially injected 16-cell host embryo in the place of one discarded host micromere or at an ectopic location . "
"CARM1 is a cancer-relevant protein arginine methyltransferase that regulates many aspects of transcription . Here SKI-73  is presented as a CARM1 chemical probe with pro-drug properties . SKI-73  recapitulates the effect of CARM1 knockout against breast cancer cell invasion . Single-cell RNA-seq analysis revealed that the SKI-73  -associated reduction of invasiveness acts by altering epigenetic plasticity and suppressing the invasion-prone subpopulation . Interestingly , SKI-73  and CARM1 knockout alter the epigenetic plasticity with remarkable difference , suggesting distinct modes of action for small-molecule and genetic perturbations . We therefore discovered a CARM1-addiction mechanism of cancer metastasis and developed a chemical probe to target this process . Among the important Type I PRMTs is CARM1  , which regulates multiple aspects of transcription by methylating diverse targets including RNAPII , SRC3 , C/EBPβ , PAX3/7 , SOX2/9 , RUNX1 , Notch1 , p300 , CBP , p/CIP , Med12 , and BAF155  . The physiological function of CARM1 has been linked to the differentiation and maturation of embryonic stem cells to form immune cells , adipocytes , chondrocytes , myocytes , and lung tissues  . The requirement of CARM1 is implicated in multiple cancers , with its methyltransferase activity particularly addicted by hematopoietic malignancies and metastatic breast cancer  . Our prior efforts using in vivo mouse and in vitro cell models uncovered the role of CARM1 in promoting breast cancer metastasis  . Mechanistically , CARM1 methylates Arg1064 of BAF155 and thus facilitates the recruitment of the BAF155-containing SWI/SNF complex to a specific subset of gene loci that are essential for breast cancer metastasis . CARM1 thus emerges as a novel anti-cancer target  . Although this cancer relevance inspired the development of CARM1 inhibitors  , many small-molecule CARM1 inhibitors lack target selectivity or cellular activity  , two essential criteria of chemical probes  . To the best of our knowledge , EZM2302  , TP-064  and SKI-73  , which were developed by Epizyme , Takeda/SGC  , and our team , respectively , are the only selective and cell-active CARM1 chemical probes . EZM2302 and TP-064 were developed from conventional small-molecule scaffolds occupying the substrate-binding pocket of CARM1  . However , definitive molecular mechanisms of the CARM1 addiction in these contexts remain elusive  . Here , we report the characterization and novel utility of SKI-73 , a chemical probe of CARM1 with pro-drug properties . SKI-73  can readily penetrate cell membranes and then be processed into two active CARM1 inhibitors that contain 6′−homosinefungin  as their core scaffold  . The pharmacological inhibition of CARM1 by SKI-73  recapitulates the anti-invasion effect of the genetic perturbation of CARM1 . In the context of cellular heterogeneity , we developed a cell-cycle-aware algorithm for single-cell RNA-seq  analysis and dissected the invasion-prone subset of breast cancer cells that is sensitive to SKI-73  treatment . Our scRNA-seq analysis provides the unprecedented insight that pharmacological inhibition of CARM1 alters epigenetic plasticity and suppresses invasion by suppressing the most invasive subpopulation of breast cancer cells . Upon developing cofactor-competitive PMT inhibitors  , we tailored the SAM analog sinefungin  around its 6′-amino moiety to potentially engage CARM1’s substrate-binding pocket . The HSF derivative 2a  was identified for its preferential binding to CARM1 with IC50 = 30 ± 3 nM and >10 fold selectivity over other seven human PRMTs and 26 methyltransferases of other classes  . The structural difference between 2a and 1  suggests that the N-benzyl substituent enables 2a to engage CARM1 through a distinct mechanism  . This engagement of CARM1 with 2a is expected to be largely maintained by 5a . Here , 5a shows an IC50 of 43 ± 7 nM against CARM1 and a >10-fold selectivity over the panel of 33 diverse methyltransferases  . In comparison , the negative control compounds 2b   and 5b  , which differ from 2a and 5a only by the 6′-methylene group , poorly inhibit CARM1   . The dramatic increase of the potency of 2a and 5a in contrast to 2b and 5b supports an essential role of the 6′-methylene moiety upon binding CARM1 . With 2a and 5a characterized as CARM1 inhibitors , we leveraged orthogonal in vitro assays to explore their modes of interaction  . To examine whether 2a and 5a are SAM- or substrate-competitive , CARM1 inhibition by 2a and 5a was assessed in the presence of various concentrations of SAM cofactor and H3 peptide substrate  . The SAM analogs 2a and 5a were thus characterized as SAM-competitive , substrate-noncompetitive inhibitors of CARM1 . For the direct binding of 2a and 5a to CARM1 , the CARM1-binding kinetics of 2a and 5a were examined using surface plasmon resonance   . To cross validate the binding of 2a and 5a to CARM1 , we conducted an in vitro thermal shift assay , for which ligand binding is expected to increase CARM1’s thermal stability  . The binding of 2a and 5a  increased the melting temperature  of CARM1 by 4 . By contrast , the binding of SAM and 1 show much reduced effects on Tm of CARM1  . Therefore , although the affinities of 1 , 2a and 5a to CARM1 are comparable  , their well-separated effects on Tm suggest that these inhibitors engage CARM1 differentially  . The two orthogonal biochemical assays thus verified the tight binding of 2a and 5a with CARM1 . To further seek a structural rationale for 5a and 2a for CARM1 inhibition , we solved the X-ray structure of CARM1 in complex with 5a with resolution of 2 . The overall topology of the CARM1–5a complex is indistinguishable with the V-shaped subunit of the CARM1 dimer in complex with SNF and 1  , which is typical of the Rossmann fold of Class I methyltransferases   . However , 5a adopts a noncanonical pose with its 6′-N-benzyl moiety in a binding pocket that used to be occupied by the α-amino carboxylate moiety of canonical ligands such as SAH , SNF and 1  , while the α-amino methoxyphenethyl amide moiety of 5a protrudes into the substrate-binding pocket  . In contrast to the noncanonical mode , Arg168 in the CARM1–5a complex adopts an alternative orientation  , accompanied by an altered conformation of Glu257 , to accommodate the 6′-N-benzyl moiety of 5a  . The α-amino amide moiety of 5a also engages CARM1 through the combined outcomes of a hydrogen-bond network and hydrophobic interactions with nearby resides  . Interestingly , the overlaid structures of CARM1 in complex with 5a and a substrate peptide implicate a steric clash and thus a potential for binding competition between 5a and a CARM1 substrate  . The binding mode of the CARM1–2a complex was modeled via molecular docking followed by molecular dynamics  simulation  . When the same modeling protocol was applied to the CARM1–SNF complex , only the canonical pose was identified  . Interestingly , the side chain configurations of His414 in both BP1 and BP2 are different from those in the CARM1–5a complex and the CARM1–SNF complex  . Collectively , 5a and 2a , though structurally related to the SAM analogs 1 and SNF , engage CARM1 via distinct modes of interaction . Upon comparing the CARM1 structure in complex with 5a and 2a , we observed the additional hydrogen-bond and hydrophobic interactions of 5a that involve its α-amino amide moiety  . Interestingly , these interactions do not increase but rather decrease the affinity of 5a to CARM1 by two-fold  . These observations suggest that , although 5b facilitates CARM1’s engagement better than 2b via the former’s α-amino amide moiety , such an effect is dispensed with in the presence of the 6′-methylene  amine moiety of 5a and 2a . Given the tight CARM1 binding by 1 , we solved the X-ray structure of CARM1 in complex with 1  with a resolution of 2 . The overall folding of the CARM1–1 complex  is similar to those of 1 in complex with SNF and SAH  with a V-shape subunit in a dimer of dimers   . However , the CARM1–1 complex is distinct for multiple configurations of its ligand and interactions via its 6′-methyleneamine moiety  . In the CARM1–1 complex , 1 can adopt four alternative configurations  accompanied with the structural accommodation of the adjacent residues and water hydrogen bonds  . By contrast , only a single configuration of the ligands was observed in SAH- or SNF-bound CARM1   . Detailed structural comparison of CARM1 in complex with SNF , SAH and 1 further revealed that 1 maintains common interactions observed in the CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes with several exceptions  . Most noticeably , the CARM1–1 complex gains the strong hydrogen bonds via the 6′-methyleneamine moiety of the ligand with  the backbone carbonyl of CARM1’s Glu258  or  the side chain of Tyr154  , together with several less conserved water hydrogen bonds  . By contrast , the 6′-amine of SNF in the CARM1–SNF complex forms weaker hydrogen bonds with Glu258 and may fewer water hydrogen bonds  . Comparable interactions are completely absent from the CARM1–SAH complex  . The desired hydrogen-bond networks of the 6′-methyleneamine moiety of 1 with CARM1 , which are present in the CARM1-1 complex but absent from the CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes , can rationalize the significant decrease of IC50 from SNF and SAH to 1 . Another key difference among CARM1–1 , CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes lies in the region around the carboxylate moiety of these ligands . In Chains A and C of the CARM1–1 complex , the carboxylate moiety of the ligand forms an ionic bond with Arg169 and a hydrogen bond with Gln160  . Such interactions are absent from CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes  . By contrast , in Chains B and D of the CARM1–1 complex , the same carboxylate moiety forms the ionic bonds with Arg169 and a water hydrogen bond  . Similar interaction patterns can also be found in the CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes  . With regards to the rest of the CARM1–ligand interactions , the CARM1 complexes with 1 , SAH and SNF are nearly identical except for slightly altered water hydrogen bonds  . Here , the α-amino moiety of these ligands forms hydrogen bonds with the carbonyl backbone of Gly193 , as well as two water hydrogen bonds; their 2′ , 3′-ribosyl hydroxyl groups form two hydrogen bonds with the side chain of CARM1’s Glu215; adenine’s N1 and N6 form the hydrogen bonds with Asn243 and Glu244/Ser272 , respectively; and the adenine ring of these ligands is buried within a hydrophobic pocket . By contrast , there are fewer conserved water hydrogen bonds , such as those involved with the carboxylate and 3′-ribosyl hydroxyl moieties of 1 in Chain A of the CARM1–1 complex  . By contrast , adenine-N7 in the CARM1–SNF and CARM1–SAH complexes forms water hydrogen bonds bridged to Ser272 , which are absent from the CARM1–1 complex  . Collectively , the general high affinity of 1 , SNF and SAH  arises from the combined hydrophilic and hydrophobic interactions of these ligands with CARM1 . In addition , 1 adopts the canonical pose with its α-amino carboxylate moiety interacting with Arg168 , which is similar to that of SNF and SAH but different from the noncanonical pose of 2a and 5a , upon binding CARM1  . Although the in vitro characterization demonstrated the potency and selectivity of 2a and 5a against CARM1 , we anticipated their poor membrane permeability as observed for structurally related analogs such as SAH and SNF   . Given the essential roles of the 9′−amine moiety of 2a and 5a in CARM1 binding  , we envisioned overcoming the membrane permeability issue through a pro-drug strategy by cloaking this amine moiety with a redox-triggered trimethyl-locked quinone butanoate moiety   . To assess the cellular activity of 6a , we relied on our prior knowledge that CARM1 methylates the Arg1064 of BAF155 , a core component of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex , and CARM1 knockout abolishes this posttranslational modification in MCF-7 cells  . To further evaluate 6a as a chemical probe against CARM1 , we quantified the efficiency by which 6a engages CARM1 in a cellular context and thus suppresses the CARM1-dependent invasion by breast cancer cells . Because of the pro-drug character of 6a and its control compound 6b , we first developed quantitative LC-MS/MS methods to examine their cellular fates for CARM1 engagement  . Given that cellular CARM1 inhibition is involved with multiple species  in competition with SAM , we modeled the ligand occupancy of cellular CARM1 on the basis of their Kd values  and MS-quantified intracellular concentrations  . 5‒10 µM , the combined CARM1 occupancy by 2a , 5a and their pro-drug precursor 6a rapidly reached the plateau of >95% within 6 hr , and was maintained at this level for at least 48 hr  . The time- and dose-dependent progression of the CARM1 occupancy by these ligands thus provides quantitative guidance upon the treatment of MDA-MB-231 cells with 6a . In a similar manner to that described for the ligand occupancy of cellular CARM1 , we modeled the occupancy of cellular SMYD2 by 2a on the basis of Kd , 2a=150 nM and Kd , SAM=60 nM for SMYD2  . Largely because of the high affinity of 2a to SAM and thus a 37-fold larger Kd , 2a/Kd , SAM ratio of SMYD2 relative to CARM1  , the occupancy of SMYD2 by 2a is below 20%  under the efficacy doses of 6a  . We then conducted a cellular thermal shift assay  , in which ligand binding is expected to increase CARM1’s thermal stability in a cellular context  . Our data showed that the treatment of MDA-MB-231 cells with 6a but with not the control compound 6b increased cellular Tm and thus the thermal stability of CARM1 by 4 . The distinct effect of 6a in contrast to 6b on the cellular Tm of CARM1 aligns well with the 4 . 2°C difference in the in vitro Tm of CARM1 upon binding 2a and 5a versus SAM  . These observations thus present the cellular evidence to show that CARM1 engages 2a and 5a . To further characterize 6a as a CARM1 chemical probe , we examined the Arg1064 methylation of BAF155 and the Arg455/Arg460 methylation of PABP1 , two well-characterized cellular methylation marks of CARM1 , upon treating MDA-MB-231 cells with 6a  . 75 µM  are well correlated with the modeled 60% cellular occupancy of CARM1 upon treatment with 0 . We therefore demonstrated the robust use of 6a  as a CARM1 chemical probe and of 6b  as its control compound . After demonstrating the utility of SKI-73  as a chemical probe for CARM1 , we examined whether chemical inhibition of CARM1 can recapitulate biological outcomes that are associated with CARM1 knockout   . Our prior work showed that CARM1’s methyltransferase activity is required for invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells  . Relative to the control treatment with DMSO , treatment with SKI-73  but not its negative control compound SKI-73N  suppressed the invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells   . The treatment with ≥10 µM 6a produced the maximal 80% suppression of the invasion by MDA-MB-231 relative to the DMSO control , which is comparable with the phenotype of CARM1-KO  . Critically , no further inhibition by 6a on the invasiveness was observed upon 6a treatment  of MDA-MB-231 CARM1-KO cells  . Notably , treatment with 6a and 6b under the current condition has no apparent impact on the proliferation of parental or CARM1-KO MDA-MB-231 cells  , consistent with the intact proliferation upon treatment with other CARM1 chemical probes  . These results suggest that SKI-73  and CARM1 knockout perturb the common , proliferation-independent biological process and then suppresses 80% of the invasiveness of MDA-MB-231 cells . We thus characterized SKI-73  as a chemical probe that can be used to interrogate the CARM1-dependent invasion of breast cancer cells . To explore the feasibility of dissecting the CARM1-dependent , invasion-prone subset of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells , we formulated a cell-cycle-aware algorithm of scRNA-seq analysis and dissected those subpopulations that were sensitive to CARM1 perturbation  . Here we conducted 10 × Genomics droplet-based scRNA-seq of 3232 , 3583 and 4099 individual cells  exposed to 48 hr treatment with SKI-73  , SKI-73N  and DMSO , respectively . To dissect the subpopulation-associated transcriptomic signatures of invasive cells , we included one additional layer for hierarchical clustering by first classifying the individual cells into G0/G1 , S , and G2/M stages   , and then conducted the unsupervised clustering within each cell-cycle-aware subset  . The cell-cycle-aware algorithm allowed the clustering of these cells according to the three cell cycle stages under the three treatment conditions and resulted in 21 , 7 and 6 subpopulations in G0/G1 , S , and G2/M phases , respectively  . Notably , the 48 hr treatments with SKI-73  or SKI-73N  had no effect on the cell cycle , as indicated by their comparable cell-cycle distribution patterns  , a finding that is consistent with intact proliferation after all three treatments  . With the 21 , 7 and 6 subpopulations clustered into the G0/G1 , S , and G2/M stages , respectively , we then conducted population analysis , comparing SKI-73  and SKI-73N  against DMSO  . These subpopulations can be readily classified into five distinct categories according to their cell-cycle-aware responses to SKI-73  and SKI-73N  treatment: commonly resistant/emerging/depleted versus differentially depleted/emerging   . Here , we are particularly interested in the SKI-73  -specific depleted subpopulations  as the potential invasion-associated subpopulations , given their sensitivity to SKI-73  but not its control compound SKI-73N  . The subpopulations that remain unchanged after the treatment with SKI-73  or SKI-73N   were defined as the common resistant subset . SKI-73  -specific emerging subpopulations  are expected to be suppressed by CARM1 but emerge upon its inhibition . The remaining subpopulations are either associated with the effects of the small-molecule scaffold of SKI-73  /SKI-73N   or with SKI-73N  -specific effects  . Interestingly , scRNA-seq analysis of CARM1-KO cells ( in comparison with SKI-73  -treated cells ) suggests that CARM1 knockout has more profound effects on the overall landscape of epigenetic plasticity  . Collectively , the chemical probe SKI-73  alters the epigenetic plasticity of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells via the combined effects of SKI-73  ’s molecular scaffold and specific inhibition of CARM1’s methyltransferase activity . Given that SKI-73  has no effect on the cell cycle and proliferation of MDA-MB-231 cells under the current treatment dose and duration , we envision that the invasion capability of MDA-MB-231 cells mainly arises from an invasion-prone subset , 80% of which is depleted by SKI-73  treatment  . We thus focused on Subpopulations 0/2/8/11/13/14/17/19 of G0/G1-phase cells and Subpopulation 3 of S-phase cells: in total nine depleted subpopulations specific for SKI-73   . To identify invasion-prone subpopulation  among these candidates , we compared the transcriptional signature  of these subpopulations with those of cells that freshly invaded through Matrigel within 16 hr . Strikingly , in comparison with the highly heterogenous scRNA-seq signature of the parental MDA-MB-231 cells , the freshly harvested invasive cells  are relatively homogeneous , with their subpopulations mainly determined by the cell-cycle-related transcriptomic signatures  . Through correlation analysis comparing the invasive cells and the subpopulations within each cell-cycle stage  , we revealed the subsets whose transcriptional signatures closely relate to those of the invasive cells , including Subpopulations 6/7/8/9/14 in G0/G1-phase cells , 0/3 in S-phase cells and 1/2 of G2/M-phase cells  . In the context of population analysis for the nine SKI-73  -specific depleted subpopulations , Subpopulations 8/14 of G0/G1-phase cells and Subpopulation 3 in S-phase are putative invasion-prone candidates . Subpopulation 8 of G0/G1-phase cells is the most sensitive and the only subpopulation that can be depleted by around 80% with SKI-73  treatment  . Given the ~80% suppression and ~20% residual invasion capability upon SKI-73  treatment , we argue that the invasive phenotype of MDA-MB-231 cells predominantly arises from Subpopulation 8 G0/G1-phase cells , which only accounts for ~8% of the parental cells in G0/G1 phase  . Differential expression analysis further revealed the single-cell transcriptional signatures of metastasis-implicated genes  that are specific for the G0/G1-phase Subpopulation 8 and invasive cells but not for other G0/G1-phase invasion-prone candidates such as Subpopulation 6/7/9/14  . The remaining cells of G0/G1-phase Subpopulation 8 after SKI-73  treatment  together with others  may account for the 20% residual invasion capacity . In the context of SKI-73  -specific depletion of G0/G1-phase subpopulations , there are SKI-73  -specific emerging G0/G1-phase subpopulations: Subpopulation 3/4/5/6/16  . Population analysis of G0/G1-phase cells further revealed that Subpopulations 4 and 16 account for 90% of the emerging subset upon SKI-73  treatment  . The transcriptional signatures and probably the associated invasion capability of Subpopulations 4 and 16 are dramatically different from those of the freshly harvested invasive cells and the bulk population of the parental cells , including the invasion-prone Subpopulation 8  . Collectively , either CARM1 knockout or CARM1 inhibition with SKI-73  alters the epigenetic plasticity in a proliferation-independent manner by replacing the most invasion-prone subpopulation with the non-invasive subpopulation  to suppress the invasive phenotype  . On the basis of a novel small-molecule scaffold , 6′-homosinefungin  , SKI-73  was developed as a pro-drug-like chemical probe for CARM1 by cloaking the 9′-amine moiety of 5a with the TML moiety . The inhibitory activity of SKI-73  against CARM1 was demonstrated by the ability of SKI-73  but not SKI-73N  to abolish the cellular methylation marks of CARM1: the Arg1064 methylation of BAF155 and the Arg455/Arg460 methylation of PABP1  . The ready intracellular cleavage of TML is expected for the conversion of SKI-73 and SKI-73N  into 5a and 5b , respectively , but it is remarkable that SKI-73 and SKI-73N  can also be efficiently processed into 2a and 2b inside cells . Here , 2a and 5a are presented as potent and selective CARM1 inhibitors , whereas their control compounds 2b and 5b interact poorly with CARM1 . Competitive assays with the SAM cofactor and the peptide substrate showed that 2a and 5a act on CARM1 in a SAM-competitive and substrate-noncompetitive manner . The SAM-competitive mode is consistent with the ligand–complex structures of CARM1 , in which the SAM binding site is occupied by 2a and 5a . Strikingly , as revealed by their ligand–CARM1 complex structures , 2a and 5a engage CARM1 through noncanonical modes , with their 6′-N-benzyl moieties in the binding pocket that is otherwise occupied by the α-amino carboxylate moiety of conventional SAM analogs such as SAH , SNF and 1 . 5 °C increase in the in vitro and cellular Tm of CARM1 upon binding 2a and 5a , which contrasts with the smaller Tm changes with SAM as a ligand . The distinct modes of interaction of CARM1 with 2a and 5a  also rationalize the CARM1 selectivity of the two SAM analogs over other methyltransferases , including closely related PRMT homologs . Through mathematic modeling using the inputs of the LC-MS/MS-quantified intracellular concentrations and CARM1-binding constants of relevant HSF derivatives and the SAM cofactor , we concluded that high intracellular concentrations of 5a and 2a , and thus efficient CARM1 occupancy , can be achieved rapidly and maintained for several days with a single low dose of SKI-73  . To the best of our knowledge , EZM2302 , TP-064 , and SKI-73  and their derivatives are the only selective and cell-active CARM1 inhibitors  . Although the potency , selectivity , on-target engagement and potential off-target effects associated with these compounds have been examined in vitro and in cellular contexts as chemical probes , EZM2302 , TP-064 , and SKI-73  are differentiated by their molecular scaffolds and modes of interaction with CARM1   . SKI-73  is a cofactor analog inhibitor embedding a N6'-homosinefungin moiety to engage the SAM binding site of CARM1 in a cofactor-competitive , substrate-noncompetitive manner; EZM2302 and TP-064 occupy the substrate-binding pocket of CARM1 in a SAH-uncompetitive or SAM-noncompetitive manner  . The prolonged intracellular CARM1 inhibition further distinguishes SKI-73  from EZM2302 and TP-064 . With SKI-73  as a CARM1 chemical probe and SKI-73N  as a control compound , we showed that pharmacological inhibition of CARM1 with SKI-73  , but not SKI-73N  , suppressed 80% of the invasion capability of MDA-MB-231 cells . By contrast , the pharmacological inhibition of CARM1 with SKI-73  had no effect on the proliferation of MDA-MB-231 cells . This result is consistent with the lack of anti-proliferation activities of the other two CARM1 chemical probes , EZM2302 and TP-064 , against breast cancer cell lines  . The anti-invasion efficiency of SKI-73  is in good agreement with the intracellular occupancy and the resulting abolition of several methylation marks of CARM1 upon treatment with SKI-73  . Our prior work showed that the methyltransferase activity of CARM1 is required for breast cancer metastasis  . Among the diverse cellular substrates of CARM1  , BAF155—a key component of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex–is essential for the invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells  . Mechanistically , the CARM1-mediated Arg1064 methylation of BAF155 facilitates the recruitment of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex to a specific subset of gene loci  . Replacement of the native CARM1 with its catalytically dead mutant or with an Arg-to-Lys point mutation at the Arg1064 methylation site of BAF155 is sufficient to abolish the invasive capability of breast cancer cells  . CARM1 inhibition with SKI-73  , but not with its control compound SKI-73N  , recapitulates the anti-invasion phenotype associated with the genetic perturbation of CARM1 . More importantly , there is no additive effect upon combining CARM1-KO with SKI-73  treatment , underlying the fact that the two orthogonal approaches target the commonly shared pathway  that are essential for the invasion of breast cancer cells . In comparison to SKI-73  , the CARM1 inhibitors EZM2302 and TP-064 demonstrated anti-proliferation effects on hematopoietic cancer cells , in particular multiple myeloma  . Mechanistically , genetic perturbation of CARM1 in the context of leukemia impairs cell-cycle progression , promotes myeloid differentiation , and ultimately induces apoptosis , probably by targeting pathways of proliferation and cell-cycle progression , that is , E2F- , MYC- , and mTOR-regulated processes  . In comparison , CARM1 inhibition with EZM2302 led to a slightly different phenotype , which includes reduction of RNA stability , E2F target downregulation , and induction of a p53 response signature for senescence . Collectively , the effects of CARM1 chemical probes are highly context-dependent , with SKI-73  having different uses in impairing the invasiveness of breast cancer cells , while TP-064 and EZM2302 have uses in preventing the proliferation of hematopoietic cancer cells . Given the increased awareness of epigenetic plasticity  , we employed the scRNA-seq approach to examine MDA-MB-231 cells and their responses to chemical and genetic perturbation with CARM1 . Because of the lack of a prior reference to define subpopulations of MDA-MB-231 cells , we developed a cell-cycle-aware algorithm to cluster the subpopulations with a resolution that was able to dissect subtle changes upon treatment with SKI-73  versus its control compound SKI-73N  in each cell-cycle stage . Guided by Silhouette analysis , the population entropy analysis and the Fisher Exact test , >10 , 000 MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells were classified on the basis of their cell-cycle stages and then clustered into 34 subpopulations . With further annotation of these subpopulations according to their different responses to treatment with SKI-73  versus SKI-73N  , we readily dissected the subpopulations that were altered in a SKI-73  -specific  manner and then identified subsets with transcriptional signatures that are similar to that of the freshly isolated invasive cells . Quantitative analysis of SKI-73  -depleted subpopulations further revealed the most invasion-prone subpopulation , which accounts for only 5% of the total population but at least 80% of the invasive capability of the parental cells . Collectively , we propose a model in which MDA-MB-231 cells consist of subpopulations , with their epigenetic plasticity  determined by multiple factors including the CARM1-involved BAF155 methylation  . SKI-73  inhibits the methyltransferase activity of CARM1 , the Arg1064 methylation of BAF155 , and thus the target genes associated with the methylated BAF155 . These effects alter the cellular epigenetic landscape by affecting certain subpopulations of MDA-MB-231 cells without any apparent effect on cell cycle and proliferation . In the context of the invasion phenotype of MDA-MB-231 cells , the subset of invasion-prone cells is significantly suppressed upon the treatment with SKI-73  . Essential components that are used to dissect the invasion-prone population in this CARM1-dependent epigenetic plasticity model are the scRNA-seq analysis of sufficient MDA-MB-231 cells  , the utility of the freshly isolated invasive cells as the reference , the timing and duration of treatment , and the use of SKI-73N  and DMSO as controls . Interestingly , although the invasion-prone subpopulation is also abolished in the CARM1-KO strain , CARM1-KO reshapes the epigenetic plasticity in a much more profound manner , significantly reducing the subpopulation heterogeneity of MDA-MB-231 cells . The distinct outcomes for the pharmacological and genetic perturbation could be due to their different modes of action: short-term treatment with SKI-73  versus long-term clonal expansion of CARM1-KO cells . Here  is the concentration of SAM , Km , SAM is the Michaelis-Menten constant , and Kd is the dissociation constant of the CARM1 inhibitor 2a or 5a . IC50=×kd/km , SAM+kd Full-length CARM1 was used for SPR assay . Approximately 5500 response units of CARM1  were amino-coupled onto a CM5 chip in one flow cell according to the protocol of the manufacturer . TSA was performed as described previously  to examine the melting temperature  of CARM1 in the presence or absence of ligands . 5 μM CARM1 , and 5 μM ligand  was mixed with 5 × SYPRO Orange Protein Gel Stain stock  in a 96-well PCR plate . A DNA fragment encoding the methyltransferase domain of human CARM1  was cloned into a baculovirus expression vector pFBOH-MHL  . Pooled fractions containing CARM1 were subjected to the treatment of tobacco etch virus to remove the 6 × His tag . Purified CARM1  was crystallized with the sitting drop vapor diffusion method at 20°C . For the CARM1–1 complex , CARM1 was mixed with 1 at a 1:5 molar ratio  and crystallized with the sitting drop vapor diffusion method at 20°C by mixing 1 µL of the protein solution with 1 µL of the reservoir solution containing 20% PEG3350 and 0 . X-ray diffraction data for the CARM1–1 complex were collected at 100 K at beam line 23ID-B of Advanced Photon Source  , Argonne National Laboratory . The structure of the CARM1–1 complex was solved by molecular replacement using MOLREP  with the PDB entry 2V74 as the search template . For the CARM1-5a complex , CARM1 was crystallized with the sitting drop vapor diffusion method at 20°C by mixing 1 µL of protein solution with 1 µL of the reservoir solution containing 25% PEGG3350 , 0 . X-ray diffraction data for the CARM1-5a complex were collected at 100 K at beamline 24ID-E of Advanced Photon Source  , Argonne National Laboratory . The ligands were docked into the binding site of CARM1 using the induced-fit docking  protocol  implemented in the Schrodinger suite  . Herein , CARM1 models in complex with the two ligands were placed into explicit water boxes . For each CARM1–ligand complex , a 600 ns trajectory was collected . An average concentration of the analyte  was obtained on the basis of the three concentrations weighted by the mass peak areas of the three internal standards  according to Equation 3:  C¯A=CA−6b×PIS−6bPIS−6b+PIS−5b+PIS−2b+CA−5b×PIS−5bPIS−6b+PIS−5b+PIS−2b+CA−2b×PIS−2bPIS−6b+PIS−5b+PIS−2b On the basis of the C¯A values of 6a , 5a , and 2a  in the MeOH extraction of cell lysates , the intracellular concentrations of the analyte 6a , 5a , and 2a  were calculated according to Equation 4 . The concentration of SAM  in the MeOH extraction was obtained according to Equation 2 , in which ‘X’ is the ratio  of the mass peak areas of SAM  versus the internal standard CD3-SAM  and ‘Y’ is the ratio  of the concentrations of SAM versus CD3-SAM in the MeOH extraction . Given the identical LC-MS properties of SAM and CD3-SAM , CA , SAM was obtained solely on the basis of the working curve with CD3-SAM as the internal standard . The intracellular concentration of SAM  was then calculated using Equation 4 , in which N is the cell number and V is the mean volume of MDA-MB-231 cells  . In a manner similar to that described above for the ligand occupancy of CARM1 , the SMYD2 occupancy by 2a was modeled with Kd , SAM = 60 nM , Kd , 2a = 150 nM and Equation 6 . MDA-MB-231 cells and MCF-7 parental and CARM1-KO  cells were maintained in DMEM  medium containing 10% FBS  . For the Arg1064 methylation mark of BAF155 , the blots were blocked in 5% non-fat milk for 1 hr and incubated with anti-me-BAF155  , anti-BAF155  , anti-CARM1  , and anti-β-actin  overnight at 4°C . Here the antibodies against CARM1 , PABP1 , and me-PABP1 were custom generated by Genemed Synthesis   . CETSA was performed as described previously  to examine the intracellular engagement of 6a or 6b with CARM1 . Western blotting of CARM1 was performed with anti-CARM1 antibody  . MDA-MB-231 parental and CARM1-KO cells  were maintained in DMEM  medium containing 10% FBS  . MDA-MB-231 parental and CARM1-KO  cells were harvested with trypsin/EDTA and washed twice with serum-free DMEM  . Relative cell invasion was determined by the number of the invasive cells normalized to the total number of cells adhering to 0 . Inhibition%=MaximalInhibition%×+EC50 To examine proliferation of MDA-MB-231 cells , 5000 cells of parental and CARM1-KO cells were seeded in a 96-well plate and incubated in 37°C overnight . These cells were treated with various doses  of SKI-73 or SKI-73N  in DMSO and incubated for 72 hr . The relative viability of compound-treated cells versus DMSO-treated parent cells were plotted against the concentrations of SKI-73 and SKI-73N  . 10 × Genomics droplet-based scRNA-seq was implemented to characterize five types of MDA-MB-231 cells: MDA-MB-231 cells treated with DMSO , SKI-73  and SKI-73N  , MDA-MB-231 cells that freshly invaded through Matrigel , and CARM1-KO MDA-MB-231 cells . For the first three samples , MDA-MB-231 cells were treated with DMSO , 10 μM SKI-73  , and 10 μM SKI-73N  for 48 hr . For the CARM1-KO sample , the cells were trypsinized at 37°C for 3 min , washed twice with 1 × PBS containing 0 . To collect the cells that freshly invaded through Matrigel , the conditions described above for cell invasion assays were applied to allow approximately 5% of the 1 × 107 seeded MDA-MB-231 cells to invade through Matrigel . Fisher’s Exact Test was implemented to evaluate the agreement of the clusters with the three cell origins ( DMSO- , SKI-73  - or SKI-73N  -treated cells ) using R package ‘fisher . Here , silhouette analysis was applied to determine the number of clusters in an unsupervised manner , without awareness of the three cell origins ( DMSO- , SKI-73  - or SKI-73N  -treated cells ) . ‘di , total’ is defined as the fraction of the cells of the ‘i’ subpopulation within the total cell population in each cell-cycle stage . ‘d  , total =djj , i ×di , total’ represents the fraction of the cells with the ‘j’ origin  and the ‘i’ subpopulation within the total cell population in each cell-cycle stage . For a specific subpopulation ‘i’ , there are three ‘d  , total’ values ( d  , total , d  , total and d  , total ) for the treatments with DMSO , SKI-73N  and SKI-73  , respectively . Population analysis was conducted by classifying the SKI-73N/SKI-73  -treated subpopulations into the following five categories: commonly resistant ( 0 . In each cell cycle  of the cells treated with DMSO , SKI-73  or SKI-73N  and ‘invasion cells’ , correlation analysis of subpopulations was conducted with ‘BuildClusterTree’ function in the Seurat package   . For the G0/G1-phase cells , the ‘invasion cells’ and Subpopulation 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 14 were selected as the ‘high’ group; Subpopulation 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 were selected as the ‘low’ group . For the G2/M-phase cells , the ‘invasion cells’ and Subpopulations 1 , 2 were selected as the ‘high’ group; and Subpopulations 0 , 3 , 4 , 5 were selected as the ‘low’ group . For the S-phase cells , the ‘invasion cells’ and Subpopulations 0 , 3 were selected as the ‘high’ group; and Subpopulations 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 were selected as the ‘low’ group . "
"We constructed a diverse library of >3000 monoclonal antibodies to assess the roles of extracellular loops  in LptD , an essential OMP that inserts lipopolysaccharide into the outer membrane of Escherichia coli . Epitope binning and mapping experiments with LptD-loop-deletion mutants demonstrated that 7 of the 13 ECLs are targeted by antibodies . Only ECLs inaccessible to antibodies were required for the structure or function of LptD . Our results suggest that antibody-accessible loops evolved to protect key extracellular regions of LptD , but are themselves dispensable . Supporting this hypothesis , no α-LptD antibody interfered with essential functions of LptD . Our experimental workflow enables structure-function studies of OMPs in native cellular environments , provides unexpected insight into LptD , and presents a method to assess the therapeutic potential of antibody targeting . LptD is a β-barrel outer membrane protein  responsible for the final unidirectional insertion of LPS into the OM outer leaflet  . The LptD β-barrel is comprised of 26 anti-parallel β-strands with a proposed lateral gate formed where the first and last β-strands interact  . Like other Gram-negative β-barrel OMPs , LptD possess long extracellular , environmentally-exposed loops and short periplasmic loops connecting adjacent strands  . The roles of the extracellular loops  in folding or activity of LptD have not been determined . LptD forms an obligate interaction with the OM lipoprotein LptE  . The presumed model for LPS transport across the OM posits that lipid A is inserted into the hydrophobic OM through a lateral gate of LptD  . By an unknown mechanism , the polar sugars of the LPS core oligosaccharide and O-antigen are presumably moved through the LptD β-barrel lumen and flipped to the exterior of the cell . Due to its essential role in OM biogenesis , high conservation among Gram-negative bacteria , and exposure to the extracellular environment , LptD represents a potential new antibacterial target . Genetic experiments show that crosslinking LPS to LptD in the jelly roll domain or the lateral gate , or introduction of disulfide bonds that disrupt the proposed LPS path through LptD , inhibit growth  . Indeed , two antibacterial peptides targeting LptD have been described , both presumably targeting the periplasmic jelly roll domain  . For example , removal of the LptD extracellular loop 4  , imp4213 , is known to disrupt the OM barrier leading to sensitization to antibiotics  . However , the roles of the extracellular LptD loops remain largely underexplored due to a lack of robust tools to systematically assess structure-function relationships in the context of a native OM . Accordingly , here we pursued four diverse strategies to produce thousands of mAbs that bound to LptD . Characterization of the α-LptD mAbs discovered herein allowed us to map the environmentally-exposed surfaces of LptD and to systematically explore the structure-function relationship of the large ECLs of this essential OMP within its native OM environment . Through the construction and characterization of LptD loop deletion strains , we identified non-exposed loops that are critical for LptD function under defined conditions , which are all inaccessible to antibody interference . Our data provide unique insights into the structure and function of LptD and suggest that non-antibody approaches for interfering with the function of this essential OMP in E . coli OMP LptD , we set out to discover α-LptD antibodies to these surface-exposed structures . coli LptD by running four independent discovery campaigns . Specifically , we immunized  rats with cyclic and linear peptides derived from extracellular LptD loop sequences ,  rats and  mice with purified LptDE protein in detergent  and non-detergent polymer  , and  rats with a targeted boost-and-sort strategy that uses whole bacterial cell immunizations followed by immune boosts with purified LptDE protein  . Cumulatively , the discovery campaigns generated more than 7000 hybridomas and more than 3 , 000 ELISA+ LptD-specific mAbs  . In total , 774 ELISA+ α-LptD mAbs from the peptide and protein rat immunizations , 952 ELISA+ α-LptD mAbs from the mouse immunizations , and 1494 α-LptD mAbs from the targeted boost-and-sort immunizations were purified  . To explore epitope coverage and accessibility of the α-LptD ELISA+ mAbs from three of the antibody discovery campaigns , we first measured their extracellular binding by a fluorescence-assisted cell sorting  -based assay to two strains of E . Depending on the immunization campaign , 9–30% of the ELISA+ α-LptD mAbs were FACS+ on E . coli K-12 FACS+ α-LptD mAbs were a subset of all the FACS+ mAbs , binding equally well to E . The diversity of epitopes bound by α-LptD mAbs in our library was next assessed by monitoring binding to LptD from different species . ELISAs were performed with 134 FACS+ and 233 FACS- α-LptD mAbs using purified LptDE protein from two closely related Enterobacteriaceae species , Klebsiella pneumoniae and Enterobacter cloacae , which share 82% and 84% overall protein identity and 71% and 76% identify between the ECLs only when compared with E . coli LptD , respectively  . The majority of FACS+  and FACS-  α-LptD mAbs bound only E . Analysis of the surface-exposed portion of LptD predicted from experimental x-ray crystallographic structural models identified regions of >5 amino acids that were conserved among all three Enterobacteriaceae species , the size of a typical hot spot of residues that contribute to antibody binding   . Indeed , we identified 10  α-LptD mAbs that bound to LptDE from all three species and 42 that bound either E . coli LptD-derived peptides and E . coli LptDE protein yielded diverse antibodies that bound to both unique and conserved extracellular accessible  and extracellular-inaccessible or periplasmic  epitopes . The differences in cross-species reactivity of the α-LptD mAbs suggested that the FACS+ antibodies bound multiple surface-exposed LptD epitopes . To determine if these antibodies bound unique extracellular epitopes , we tested α-LptD mAbs with the highest FACS+ signal for their abilities to compete with each other for binding to purified E . Every possible FACS+ pair of α-LptD mAbs was screened for the ability to either bind LptDE protein simultaneously  or to compete for binding  using a SPR-based binding assay  . From these results , we constructed a surface epitope map for the FACS+ α-LptD mAbs  . When the species cross-reactivity data were considered , most three-species cross-reactive α-LptD mAbs were tightly clustered , while those that bound only E . Thus , the α-LptD mAbs we discovered covered multiple distinct and overlapping extracellular LptD epitopes . In order to map the extracellular epitopes of the α-LptD mAbs in a native asymmetrical OM environment , we first generated and characterized a panel of lptD mutants each lacking one ECL . We constructed 13 lptD mutants , each lacking the region encoding one of the 13 ECLs  . These loop deletions were based on available x-ray crystal structures of LptD and were constructed as complete loop deletions without replacing the removed sequence . In the case of loop 4  , which encompassed the classical imp4213 allele  and in the case of loop 8 , which is an extensive loop that interacts with LptE in the LptD lumen  , we only removed a portion of the loop . Each lptD loop mutant was expressed in a lptD-conditional E . In the presence of arabinose , which induces a chromosomal wild-type lptD , all strains grew  . In the absence of arabinose , all lptD loop mutants supported growth in the K-12 strain with the exception of loop 2  removal , which showed reduced growth  . In all cases when growth was observed , the levels of the LptD loop deletion protein produced were similar to the protein level of wild-type LptD  . Thus , LptD is highly tolerable to genetic manipulation of its ECLs . When the lptD loop mutants were expressed in an lptD-conditional E . coli ΔwaaD strain , which produces LPS with a truncated core oligosaccharide , the observed loop requirements were different . coli ΔwaaD background , LptD lacking either loop 2 or loop 10 were unable to support bacterial growth on solid growth agar  . The inability of LptD lacking L10  to support growth of the E . coli ΔwaaD strain suggested that this ECL is important for LptD folding or activity in this strain . In contrast , the LptDΔL10 variant was produced and did support growth of E . coli K-12  , indicating that LptDΔL10 was folded and sufficiently functional in the strain producing core-LPS but not the minimal LPS of E . To determine if the other LptD loops had differential activities in these two strains , we monitored the growth of all of the LptD loop variants in both the E . In the presence of arabinose , which induces a chromosomal wild-type lptD , all strains had similar growth patterns  . coli K-12 strain producing LptDΔL10 grew , but at a decreased rate , and the strain with LptDΔL2 exhibited a dramatically prolonged lag phase and severe growth phenotype  . coli ΔwaaD expressing LptDΔL10 did not grow at all , but expression of LptDΔL2 supported growth in liquid media  . Thus , L2 and L10 are important for LptD folding , activity , interaction with the β-barrel assembly machinery component BamA , or a combination of these . Also , the LptDΔL10 loop deletion mutant was better tolerated in E . coli K-12 compared to the LPS-truncated ΔwaaD strain while in liquid growth media the LptDΔL2 mutant is better tolerated in the E . The lptDΔL4 mutant used in this study encompassed the imp4213 allele . We tested whether the strains producing other LptD loop mutants had increased membrane permeability by measuring sensitivities to rifampicin and vancomycin , two antibiotics excluded by the Gram-negative bacteria OM . The minimal inhibitory concentrations  of both rifampicin and vancomycin were lower for strains producing LptDΔL4 , as expected , and also for strains producing LptDΔL2 , LptDΔL8 , and LptDΔL10 indicating an OM defect  . These results suggest that extracellular L2 , L4 , L8 and L10 are important for LptD function and potentially influence LptD folding , interaction with BamA , or activity . We utilized our lptD loop deletion panel to map the α-LptD mAb surface coverage in a native E . We characterized binding of 52 FACS+ α-LptD mAbs to the E . In the absence of arabinose driving expression of the chromosomal wild-type lptD , production of each mutant LptD was detected and growth of the E . coli ΔwaaD conditional lptD strain was supported by all LptD loop deletion mutants with the exception of L10 , so this construct was not tested in this assay  . coli ΔwaaD strain expressing wild-type lptD  . We expected that if an extracellular LptD loop was critical for binding , removing the loop would reduce α-LptD mAb binding . The lack of binding by any particular mAb to a LptD loop mutant could be due to removal of the mAb binding site , in part or in full , or a structural change that alters the mAb binding site when a loop is removed . The majority of the α-LptD mAbs could be categorized into one of 7 general binding patterns based on the mutants they were unable to bind with multiple representatives in each grouping:  Loop 4  ,  Loop 6/7  ,  Loop 6/7/8  ,  Loop 8/9  ,  Loop 9  ,  Loop 11  , and  Loop 13   . Thus , our immunization campaigns produced antibodies that allow systematic probing of accessible ELCs around the LptD structure . coli K-12 FACS+ α-LptD mAb  , no loop mutant dramatically altered antibody binding . This pattern suggests a surface-exposed epitope was present that was not altered in these particular loop mutants or the mAb bound a composite epitope that was not sufficiently disrupted by loss of a portion of the epitope encompassed by one individual loop deletion  . This could be especially true for L8 as the deletion encompassed only part of the loop that , based on structural models , is likely to occupy the LptD lumen while additional exposed portions were left unchanged  . For every loop deletion , at least one FACS+ α-LptD mAb had reduced cell binding by >90% . Comparing these data with the species cross-reactivity and in vitro binding competition epitope map provided a complete picture of the mAb accessible surface of LptD . Specifically , a majority of the two- and three-species cross-reactive α-LptD mAbs were dependent upon L8 , L9 , or both for binding  . coli-specific α-LptD mAbs , but not the three-species cross-reactive mAbs , were defective for binding upon removal of L3 , L7 , or L13  . These α-LptD mAbs and knowledge of their binding sites are valuable tools for probing the accessible LptD surface and suggest that LptD can tolerate extensive alteration to its extracellular surface with little or no effect on folding or function . Because distinct antibody discovery approaches were utilized , we were also able to evaluate the potential correlation of LptD targeting with regard to the immunization campaign . Partitioning the mAbs with respect to the host animal used for immunization highlighted a trend for L6 , L7 , and L8 to be critical from the rat immunization campaign , while mAbs from the mouse immunization campaign tended to yield FACS+ antibodies that required L8 and L9 . Because these animals are likely not tolerized to the foreign bacterial LptD protein , this difference could reflect differences in the types of binding sites presented for rat versus mouse antibodies . coli ΔwaaD  , however , we did not identify any α-LptD mAbs that bound L2 , and both L2 and L10 appear to be inaccessible in available structural models of LptD   . Indeed , when we screened our entire antibody catalog using growth inhibition as a readout for mAb activity , we did not identify any α-LptD mAbs able to inhibit growth of E . Combined with our LptD loop deletion analysis , the lack of ability to identify an inhibitory α-LptD mAb suggests that LptD may be specifically evolved to withstand extracellular modulation by antibodies while protecting critical structural elements of LptD function . BamA is part of the β-barrel assembly machine that folds and inserts β-barrel OMPs , including BamA and LptD , into the OM  . LptD is the last protein in the Lpt pathway that establishes and maintains OM asymmetry by inserting LPS exclusively into the outer leaflet of the OM  . Similar to other Gram-negative β-barrel OMPs , both BamA and LptD possess short periplasmic loops but long , variable , and environmentally-exposed ECLs  . To systematically interrogate the LptD ECLs , we performed four antibody discovery campaigns to generate thousands of antibodies targeting LptD to probe structure-function relationships of this essential OMP in its native OM environment . The unusual breadth and depth of our approach represents a powerful way to probe the accessible surfaces of the ECLs of LptD and to tease apart the changes that accompany LPS insertion by LptD in the native OM environment of the bacterial cell . By characterizing hundreds of these α-LptD mAbs , we discovered that extensive portions of the extracellular surface of LptD are dispensable in E . coli and critical features of LptD are likely occluded and protected by non-essential loops  . Little is known about the role and dynamics of the ECLs of LptD in the function of LPS insertion into the OM and there are few available tools to study this process . In an effort to probe as many extracellular epitopes as possible , we generated a large , diverse α-LptD mAb library by undertaking multiple immunization campaigns utilizing different antigens , adjuvants , and hosts . Varying antigens systematically presented LptD in increasingly complex arrangements to potentially capture different available epitopes . First , peptide immunizations utilized both linear peptides derived from conserved and non-conserved LptD ECL sequences and cyclic variants in an effort to constrain particular conformations . coli infections and then boosted them with purified LptDE protein to enrich for any LptD antibody response  . Taken together , our effort to maximize the epitope coverage in our α-LptD mAb library led to distinct clusters of antibodies that possessed differing abilities to cross-react with LptD species variants , required different ECLs for binding , and exhibited varying levels of access to LptD through the protective LPS layer . Given the ease of manipulating bacterial strains , it could even be possible to steer immunizations towards particular ECLs by initially immunizing with a ΔECL-OMP strain followed by boosting with recombinant protein . Other scaffolds or antibodies from different host species might be able to recognize distinct epitopes on the exposed portions of LptD . In the case of the mouse and rat antibodies described here , we found that seven different LptD ECLs , out of a total of 13 , could affect binding of the mAbs and the remaining six loops are likely partially or fully buried based on models from crystal structures   . When this α-LptD mAb campaign is combined with of our α-BamA mAb effort  , we now have the ability to probe the structure-function relationships of the only two essential OMPs in their native OM environment in E . We have observed that in LptD there appear to be differential requirements for particular ECLs , L2 and L10 , depending on the structure of LPS , specifically wild-type LPS versus the truncated ΔwaaD LPS . The LPS-dependent requirement for LptD loops suggests that effects of the OM structure on OMPs might be more general . Among the 13 extracellular LptD loops , both L2 and L10 are short and lack large insertions or deletions across LptD homologs when compared to the longer loops in highly divergent LptD proteins  . Although these interpretations are speculative and complicated by the fact that LPS is the substrate for LptD , it is tempting to hypothesize that the structure and function of OMPs evolved to be maximal when embedded in the constrained , liquid crystalline , OM matrix  and altering the nature of this membrane leads to defects . Thus , membrane environment is a critical consideration when interpreting biochemical and structural data of LptD and other OMPs in detergent micelles and must be considered when attempting to design or discover inhibitors of these essential processes in Gram-negative bacteria . Genetic , biochemical , and structural data support a model for LPS insertion into the OM whereby the acyl chains of lipid A are inserted into the hydrophobic bilayer through a lateral gate created between the first and last strands of the LptD β-barrel  . Presumably the sugars must pass through the LptD transmembrane β-barrel lumen , which is also occupied by an essential lipoprotein , LptE , and then through a proposed opening in the surface-exposed cap of LptD . Thus , consistent with prior molecular dynamic simulations , there are likely major structural surface re-arrangements in LptD during LPS insertion  . It is informative , therefore , that none of our identified α-LptD mAbs were able to inhibit the activity of LptD . One explanation is that binding to a single epitope is insufficient to disrupt the required movements of LptD . Alternatively , the positions on LptD critical for these presumed structural changes might be inaccessible to mAbs . Indeed , few or no α-LptD mAbs bound to the extracellular LptD loops that were found genetically to be important for viability or OM maintenance under specific conditions . By burying critical regions , LptD appears to avoid direct interference by antibodies , providing bacteria an evolutionary advantage in evading functional antagonism by the host immune system . Accordingly , the antibody-accessible LptD loops also are the most diverse in sequence , suggesting that these regions may be subject to selective pressures from the immune system   . It remains to be seen whether immobilizing these loops in LptD , for example , with a small molecule or peptide macrocycle that can access these positions , would inhibit LptD activity . While our observations make direct interference with LptD function by antibodies unlikely , they do not rule out the potential value of LptD as a vaccine candidate  . Overall , our study represents an exhaustive α-LptD antibody discovery campaign , and potentially the most exhaustive on any membrane protein described to date . We have observed extreme tolerability of the ECLs to interference , suggesting that the architecture of the exposed ECLs of LptD play a role in protecting critical functions of this essential OMP . The conditional lptD strain , ΔlptD::PBAD-lptD , was created by inserting PBAD-lptD at the attB site in MG1655 followed by deletion of the native copy of lptD  . Briefly , lptD was cloned into pBAD24 using standard methods . PBAD-lptD was amplified from pBAD24-lptD and sub-cloned into pLDR9 . pLDR9-PBAD-lptD was digested with XbaI , ligated , and transformed into MG1655 expressing pLDR8 . PCR and DNA sequencing confirmed insertion of PBAD-lptD at the attB site . After integration of PBAD-lptD , the native copy of lptD was deleted using λ Red recombination as described above . In the absence of arabinose , the conditional DlptD::PBAD-lptD strain did not grow . To obtain a conditional lptD strain truncated for LPS , waaD was deleted using λ Red recombination . To clone the loop mutants into the lptD conditional strains , pLMG18 was modified to replace the original antibiotic cassette providing chloramphenicol resistance with a gentamicin resistance cassette using Gibson Assembly . The lptD gene and mutant constructs were codon optimized and ordered as gBlocks  . coli LptD  and E . coli LptD . The obtained LptD/E protein was diluted 4-fold into the buffer of 20 mM HEPES , pH 8 . When protein was required in amphipol , LptD/E protein was incubated with biotinylated amphipol  overnight at 4°C and then purified over a Superdex 200 16/60 column in a buffer consisting of 20 mM HEPES , pH 8 . When LptDE protein was required for ELISA or antigen-based sorting , an in vitro biotinylation reaction using BirA enzyme targeting the N-terminal Avi tag was first carried out according to the manufacturer's suggestions  ; LptDE was then rerun over the Superdex 200  in buffer E as described above in order to remove free biotin and other reaction components . When PE-labeled protein was required for antigen-specific sorting , LptDE at 1 mg/mL  was mixed 1:1  with PE-streptavidin  reconstituted in buffer F; the PE-streptavidin-biotin-LptDE-amphipol complex was incubated at 22°C for at least 15 min prior to use . LptD peptide immunization campaign immunized Balb/c mice  with cyclic and linear LptD peptide pools  . After HAT selection in ClonaCell-HY Medium C  for 4 days , hybridomas were stained with a cocktail of FITC-conjugated anti-rat IgG1/IgG2a/IgG2b mAbs  and PE-conjugated LptDE protein antigen  . Membranes were blocked for 1 hr in Blocking Buffer  , washed , then incubated either overnight at 4°C or room temperature for 1 hr with the following primary Abs: human α-LptD 3D11  and rabbit α-GroEL  . "
"We show that the loss of Btd leads to elimination of mature INPs due to premature differentiation of INPs into terminally dividing ganglion mother cells . Therefore , the neurogenesis pattern in type II NB lineages is remarkably similar to that in mammalian brains and the Drosophila INPs are functionally analogous to mammalian INPs , particularly oRGs . The Ase− immature INPs first turn on the expression of Ase to become Ase+ immature INPs . Ase+ immature INPs then further differentiate to become mature INPs , which express both Ase and Dpn . Both Numb and Brat are segregated into Ase− immature INPs during the division of type II NBs to prevent them from dedifferentiating into NB fate , but they function through independent pathways . Numb inhibits Notch activity in Ase− immature INPs , whereas Brat likely antagonizes the activity of the EGR family transcription factor Klumpfuss  and Armadillo/β-Catenin in Ase− immature INPs  . However , despite the significant progress on elucidating mechanisms that promote maturation and prevent dedifferentiation of INPs in the past few years , much less is known about why only type II NBs produce self-renewing INPs but not the type I NBs , which produce neurons by generating terminally dividing GMCs . Type II NBs and newly born Ase− immature INPs differ from type I NBs and GMCs by the lack of the expression of Ase and the homeodomain protein Prospero   . In type I NB lineages , Pros is expressed in the cytoplasm in the NBs and translocates to the nucleus in GMCs to promote differentiation and cell cycle exit by inhibiting NB self-renewing genes and activating neural differentiation genes  . In type II NB lineages , Pros is not expressed in the NB or Ase− immature INPs . In Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs , Pros is expressed at low levels in the cytoplasm  . It has been demonstrated that the lack of Ase and Pros in type II NBs and Ase− immature INPs is essential for the generation of self-renewing INPs in type II NB lineages . Forced expression of Ase or Pros in type II NBs and their progeny is sufficient to eliminate INPs although removing Ase or Pros in type I NBs does not change the identity of type I NBs or induce the generation of INPs  . However , mechanisms that prevent premature differentiation of INPs and/or inhibit Pros expression in type II NBs and immature INPs are not known . In this study , we report that Btd is expressed in type II NB lineages to prevent premature differentiation of INPs into GMCs by suppressing Pros expression in immature INPs . We also demonstrate that PntP1 and Btd function cooperatively to specify type II NB lineages and promote the generation of INPs . However , although forced expression of PntP1 suppress Ase expression in nearly all type I NB lineages , it induces the generation of INP-like cells only in a subset of type I NBs  . A normal type II NB lineage contains 2–3 Ase− immature INPs , 2–3 Ase+ immature INP , and about 20–30  Ase+ Dpn+ mature INPs  . Interestingly , RNAi knockdown of Btd using the type II NB lineage-specific pntP1-GAL4   as a driver led to a complete elimination of mature INPs in about 50% of type II NB lineages  . However , type II NBs remain Ase− as normal type II NBs  , suggesting that the identity of the type II NBs was not affected by Btd RNAi knockdown . Loss of Btd eliminates mature INPs in type II NB lineages . mCD8-GFP driven by pntP1-GAL4 labels all type II NB lineages  or a single type II NB clone  . Ase− immature INPs , Ase+ immature INPs , and mature INPs are indicated by open arrows , solid arrows , and arrowheads , respectively . Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages  or type II NB clones homozygous mutant for btdXG81  or btdXA  in 3rd instar larval brains produce Ase− immature INPs  and a few Ase+ daughter cells  but no mature INPs . Quantifications of the number of mature INPs  and the percentage of type II NB lineages with mature INPs  in the wild type , Btd RNAi knockdown , and btd mutant type II NB lineages . and Drosophila Btd  rescues the loss of mature INPs in btd mutant type II NB clones . Multiple mature INPs are observed in btd mutant type II NB clone that expresses UAS-mSp8  or UAS-btd  . Type II NBs , Ase− immature INPs , Ase+ immature INPs , and mature INPs are indicated by asterisks , open arrows , solid arrows , and arrowheads , respectively . 004 To confirm that the loss of INPs indeed results from the knockdown of Btd rather than off-target effects of UAS-Btd RNAi , we generated btd mutant type II NB clones using two loss-of-function alleles , btdXA and btdXG81  . Consistent with the Btd RNAi knockdown , all btdXG81 mutant and 90% of btdXA mutant type II NB clones failed to generate any mature INPs except for 4–6 Ase+ Dpn− cells  . Moreover , about 40% of btd mutant type II NBs ectopically express Ase , making them appear as type I NB lineages  . The loss of INPs resulting from the Btd RNAi knockdown and btd loss-of-function mutations suggests that Btd is required for the generation of INPs . Remarkably , the loss of INPs in btd mutant clones can be similarly rescued by the expression of mouse Sp8 or Drosophila Btd  , suggesting that mammalian Sp8 could have a conserved role in promoting the generation of transient amplifying INPs . Since the loss of mature INPs occurred even when Ase was not ectopically expressed in btd mutant type II NBs , the loss of INPs is not primarily due to the ectopic Ase expression or transformation of type II NBs into type I NBs . When mature INPs are eliminated in the absence of Btd , the type II NBs without the ectopic Ase expression still produce Ase− immature INPs and a few Ase+ Dpn− daughter cells . In normal type II NB lineages , Ase+ Dpn− cells can be either Ase+ immature INPs or GMCs . Therefore , three possible scenarios could happen when mature INPs are eliminated in the absence of Btd: 1 ) Ase− immature INPs differentiate into GMCs instead of Ase+ immature INPs; 2 ) Ase− immature INPs differentiate into Ase+ immature INPs , which then directly differentiate into neurons/glia without further dividing; 3 ) Ase− immature INPs differentiate into Ase+ immature INPs , which in turn differentiate into terminally dividing GMCs . To distinguish these possibilities , we first wanted to determine if Ase− immature INPs still differentiate into Ase+ immature INP in the absence of Btd by examining the expression of INP specific marker R9D11-CD4-tdTomato and progenitor marker Miranda  in the Ase+ cells next to the Ase− immature INPs . In normal type II NB lineages , R9D11-CD4-tdTomato is first turned on in Ase+ immature INPs and becomes stronger as INPs mature  , which is similar to R9D11-mCD8-GFP  . In Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages without mature INPs , we found that R9D11-CD4-tdTomato was expressed in Ase+ daughter cells next to the Ase− immature INPs but its overall expression was much weaker than that in normal type II NB lineages  . Consistently , Mira is also expressed in those Ase+ cells next to the Ase− immature INPs in the Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages  . The expression of R9D11-CD4-tdTomato and Mira suggests that Ase− immature INPs still differentiate into Ase+ immature INP in the absence of Btd as in wild-type type II NB lineages  . Loss of Btd results in ectopic nuclear Pros in immature INPs and premature differentiation of Ase+ immature INPs into GMCs . R9D11-CD4-tdTomato is expressed in Ase+ immature INPs  and mature INPs  but not in Ase− immature INPs  in a wild-type type II NB lineage . R9D11-CD4-tdTomato remains expressed in Ase+ daughter cells  next to the Ase− immature INPs  when mature INPs are eliminated by Btd RNAi knockdown . pH3 is not detected in Ase+ immature INPs  in a wild-type type II NB lineage . pH3 is expressed in Ase+ daughter cells  that are the furthest from the Ase− immature INPs  in a Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineage without mature INPs  or btd mutant type II NB lineages  . Nuclear Pros is not expressed in Ase− immature INPs  in a wild-type type II NB lineage . Nuclear Pros is ectopically expressed in both Ase− immature INPs  and Ase+ cells  in Btd RNAi knockdown  or btd mutant  type II NB lineages . Quantifications of relative overall expression levels of R9D11-CD4-tdTomato in wild-type  and Btd RNAi knockdown  type II NB lineages . In a Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineage without mature INPs , Mira is expressed in Ase+ daughter cells  next to the Ase− immature INP  but does not form a basal crescent at metaphase in the dividing Ase+ cell  . 006 Next we asked if Ase+ immature INPs differentiate into neurons/glia directly or GMCs in the absence of Btd . If Ase+ immature INPs directly differentiate into neurons/glia , then all the Ase+ daughter cells should be Ase+ immature INPs and none of them should be dividing . In contrast , if Ase+ immature INPs differentiate into GMCs , then some Ase+ daughter cells will become mitotically active and express nuclear Pros but will not form a Mira crescent at the metaphase or telophase . Immunostaining with the mitotic marker phospho-histone 3  showed that unlike Ase+ immature INPs , which never become pH3-positive  , some Ase+ daughter cells generated in both Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages without mature INPs  and btd mutant type II NB lineages became mitotically active  . However , the pH3 positive cells were always the furthest from the Ase− immature INPs among the Ase+ daughter cells  , suggesting that the Ase+ daughter cells divide terminally like GMCs . The terminal division and the lack of the Mira crescent strongly argue that Ase+ immature INPs differentiate into GMCs in the absence of Btd . To further confirm that late immature INPs differentiate into GMCs in the absence of Btd , we then examined the expression of nuclear Pros in the Ase+ daughter cells . In normal type II NBs lineages , Pros is expressed in the cytoplasm of Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs and in the nucleus of GMCs and post-mitotic neurons , but not in type II NBs or Ase− immature INPs  . If Ase+ immature INPs differentiate into GMCs in the absence of Btd , we expected that some of the Ase+ daughter cells express nuclear Pros . Interestingly , immunostaining of Pros showed that nuclear Pros was expressed not only in all Ase+ daughter cells but also in Ase− immature INPs generated in Btd RNAi knockdown or btd mutant type II NB lineages  . Given that Pros promotes cell cycle exit and GMC differentiation and that forced expression of Pros is sufficient to eliminate INPs in type II NB lineages  , the ectopic expression of nuclear Pros in immature INPs resulting from the loss of Btd very likely promotes the premature differentiation of Ase+ immature INPs into GMCs and cell cycle exit , leading to the loss of mature INPs  . To determine if the ectopic expression of nuclear Pros in immature INPs is indeed responsible for the elimination of mature INPs in the absence of Btd , we next examined if reducing Pros expression was able to rescue the elimination of INPs in Btd RNAi knockdown or btd mutant type II NB lineages . Remarkably , the elimination of mature INPs resulting from the Btd RNAi knockdown was nearly fully rescued even just by removing one wild-type copy of pros  . Unlike Btd RNAi knockdown in wild-type background , which resulted in a completely elimination of mature INPs in about 50% of type II NB lineages  , knockdown of Btd in pros17 or pros10419 heterozygous mutant animals no longer led to an obvious loss of mature INPs  , although type II NB lineages develop normally in pros17 or pros10419 heterozygous mutant animals  . Similarly , the loss of INPs in btd mutant clones was also largely rescued when btd mutant type II NB clones were generated in pros17 heterozygous mutant background  . Type II NB lineages in pros17 heterozygous mutant larvae produce a similar number of mature INPs as in wild-type larvae . Btd RNAi knockdown no long leads to the loss of mature INPs in pros17 heterozygous mutant type II NB lineages . Pros RNAi knockdown rescues the loss of INPs in btd mutant type II NB clones . A btd mutant type II NB clone contains no mature INPs . Pros RNAi knockdown causes overproliferation of mature INPs in a type II NB clone . Pros RNAi knockdown rescues the loss of mature INPs in a btd mutant type II clone . Quantifications of the number of mature INPs  and the percentage of lineages with mature INPs  for the rescue of Btd RNAi knockdown phenotypes in pros17/+ larvae  or the rescue of btd mutant phenotypes by Pros RNAi knockdown  . Btd RNAi knockdown driven by insc-GAL4 eliminates mature INPs in a subset of type II NB lineages . Simultaneous knockdown of Btd and Pros leads to a similar overproliferation of mature INPs in type II NB lineages as Pros RNAi knockdown alone . A btd mutant type II NB clone contains no mature INPs . pros17 heterozygous mutant type II NB clone contains multiple mature INPs as the wild-type type II NB clone  . A btd mutant type II NB clone generated in pros17 heterozygous mutant larvae has multiple mature INPs . Quantifications of the number of mature INPs  or the percentage of type II NB lineages with mature INPs  for the rescue of Btd RNAi knockdown phenotypes by Pros RNAi knockdown  or the rescue of btd mutant phenotypes in pros17 heterozygous mutant larvae  . 008 Consistent with the rescue in pros heterozygous mutant animals , Pros RNAi knockdown also rescued the loss of INPs resulting from the loss of Btd  . Pros RNAi knockdown led to overproliferation of mature INPs as observed in pros mutant type II NB clones   . When Pros was knocked down in btd mutant type II NB clones , mature INPs were rescued in all btd mutant clones  . In about 70% of btd mutant type II NB clones , Pros RNAi knockdown led to a similar mature INP overproliferation as in wild-type clones . In other 30% of btd mutant clones , Pros RNAi knockdown partially or fully rescued mature INPs without causing the overproliferation of mature INPs . Similarly , Pros RNAi knockdown also rescued the loss of mature INPs resulting from Btd RNAi knockdown  . Results from these rescue experiments demonstrate that the ectopic nuclear Pros in immature INPs is indeed responsible for the loss of mature INPs . Interestingly , removing one wild-type copy of pros or knocking down Pros not only rescued the loss of mature INPs but also suppressed the ectopic Ase expression in all btd mutant type II NBs  , suggesting that the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs also results from the ectopic expression of nuclear Pros in immature INPs . Our results showed that Btd is required to suppress Pros in Ase− immature INPs . In normal type II NB lineages , Pros is absent in Ase− immature INPs but is expressed at low levels in the cytoplasm of Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs  . However , the complete elimination of mature INPs makes it difficult to assess the role of Btd in mature INPs . Both erm-GAL4  and erm-GAL4  are expressed in Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs , whereas erm-GAL4  is also expressed in Ase− immature INPs except for the newly born Ase− immature INPs  . However , knockdown of Btd using either erm-GAL4   or erm-GAL4   did not result in any obvious loss of mature INPs in type II NB lineages . In line with these RNAi knockdown results , we were able to recover multicellular btd mutant INP clones that were comparable to wild-type INP clones  while we generated btd mutant type II NB clones , indicating that btd mutant INPs were still able to divide multiple rounds like wild-type INPs and did not prematurely differentiate into GMCs . These data suggest that Btd likely suppresses Pros expression only in newly born Ase− immature INPs but not in immature INPs at later developmental stages or mature INPs . Knockdown of Btd in immature or mature INPs by erm-GAL4 lines does not lead to the loss of mature INPs . Knockdown of Btd in Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs by erm-GAL4   or in Ase− immature INPs as well as Ase+ immature INP and mature INPs by erm-GAL4   does not cause a reduction of the number of mature INPs . Quantifications of the number of mature INPs in type II NB lineages in which Btd is knocked down by erm-GAL4   or erm-GAL4   . 010 Our btd mutant MARCM analyses showed that in addition to the loss of INPs , Ase was ectopically expressed in about 40% of btd mutant type II NBs . We showed previously that PntP1 is expressed in type II NBs as well as Ase− and Ase+ immature INPs   . Immunostaining of PntP1 showed that PntP1 was expressed at reduced levels in most btd mutant type II NB lineages without the ectopic Ase expression  . In those btd mutant clones , PntP1 was also detected in the Ase+ daughter cells next to the Ase− immature INPs  , providing additional evidence to support that Ase− immature INPs still differentiate into Ase+ immature INPs in the absence of Btd . However , in btd mutant type II NB lineages with the ectopic Ase expression in the NB , PntP1 was largely abolished in both the NBs and their progeny  . The correlation of the ectopic Ase expression in the NB and the severe reduction or loss of PntP1 suggesting that the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs could result from the severe reduction or loss of PntP1 expression . PntP1 is expressed in the NB  , Ase− immature INPs  , as well as Ase+ immature INPs  in a wild-type type II NB clone . PntP1 expression is much lower in a btd mutant type II NB clone without the ectopic Ase expression in the NB than that in a neighboring btd heterozygous type II NB lineage . PntP1 expression is largely abolished in a btd mutant type II NB clone with the ectopic Ase expression in the NB . In a neighboring btd heterozygous type II NB lineages , PntP1 is still detected in the NBs  , Ase- immature INPs  and Ase+ immature INPs  . Knocking down Pros restores the expression of PntP1 in the NB  , Ase− immature INPs  , and Ase+ immature INPs  in a btd mutant clone to levels comparable to those in a neighboring btd heterozygous type II NB lineage . Wild-type  or btd mutant type II NB clones  are outlined by dashed lines and neighboring btd heterozygous type II NB lineages  are marked with dotted lines . Quantifications of PntP1 expression levels in type II NBs  and Ase− immature INPs  in btd mutant type II NB clones relative to neighboring type II NB lineages in the same brains . The reduction of PntP1 is unlikely responsible for the loss of INPs in btd mutant type II NB clones . A btd mutant type II NB clone has similar expression levels of PntP1 as a neighboring btd heterozygous mutant type II NB lineage but fails to produce mature INPs . Expressing UAS-PntP1 does not rescue the loss of mature INPs in a btd mutant clone , even though the PntP1 expression in the btd mutant clone is much higher than that in a neighboring btd heterozygous mutant type II NB lineage . Nuclear Pros remains ectopically expressed in Ase− immature INPs and Ase+ daughter cells in a btd mutant type II NB clone expressing UAS-PntP1 . Mature INPs are partially rescued by UAS-PntP1 in a btd mutant type II NB clone . In all images , btd mutant clones are outlined by dashed lines and their neighboring btd heterozygous mutant type II NB lineages are marked by dotted lines . Open arrows: Ase− immature INPs; solid arrows: Ase+ immature INPs; arrowheads: mature INPs . 012 To determine if the reduction/loss of PntP1 is responsible for the ectopic Ase expression and/or the loss of INPs in btd mutant type II NB lineages , we examined if restoring PntP1 expression was sufficient to suppress ectopic Ase expression and/or rescue the loss of INPs resulting from the loss of Btd by expressing UAS-pntP1 in btd mutant type II NB clones . Our results showed that expressing UAS-pntP1 resulted in higher expression of PntP1 in btd mutant type II NB clones than that in neighboring btd heterozygous mutant type II NB lineages and suppressed the ectopic Ase expression in all btd mutant type II NBs   . However , unlike reducing Pros expression , which rescued mature INPs in nearly all btd mutant type II NB clones  , expressing UAS-pntP1 failed to rescue mature INPs or suppress the ectopic nuclear Pros in Ase− immature INPs or Ase+ daughter cells in the majority of btd mutant clones  . Only in 3 out of total 10 btd mutant clones expressing UAS-PntP1 , we observed that mature INPs were partially rescued to 9 . Consistent with the inability of UAS-pntP1 to fully rescue the loss of mature INPs , we found occasionally that btd mutant clones that did not show an obvious reduction of PntP1 in either the NBs or early immature INPs still failed to generate any mature INPs  . Therefore , these results demonstrate that the severe reduction/loss of PntP1 accounts for the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs but is not the primary reason for the loss of mature INPs . Given that reducing the expression of Pros suppressed the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs , we then asked if reducing Pros expression could also rescue the reduction/loss of PntP1 in btd mutant type II NB clones . Indeed , consistent with the suppression of the ectopic Ase expression by Pros RNAi knockdown , PntP1 expression in both the NBs and immature INPs returned to normal levels when the loss of INPs was rescued by Pros RNAi knockdown in btd mutant type II NB clones  . These results suggest that the reduction/loss of PntP1 in btd mutant type II NB clones is due to the ectopic Pros expression in immature INPs . However , given that ectopic nuclear Pros is only observed in immature INPs but not in the NBs in btd mutant type II NB clones , the reduction/loss of PntP1 and the subsequent ectopic Ase expression in the NB is most likely a secondary effect of the ectopic nuclear Pros expression in immature INPs . Our Btd loss of function analyses demonstrated that Btd is critical for the generation of INPs in type II NBs lineages . Since Btd antibodies are not available and our in situ hybridization signals of btd mRNAs in the central brain were barely detectable  , we used the btd-GAL4 as a reporter for btd expression . We found that mCD8-GFP driven by the btd-GAL4 is expressed in all type II NB lineages but not type I NB lineages on the dorsal side of larval brains  . In type II NB lineages , the expression of mCD8-GFP driven by btd-GAL4 is detected in the NB but becomes much stronger in immature INPs next to the NBs  . The expression pattern of btd-GAL4 in type II NB lineages is similar to that of pntP1-GAL4  and is consistent with our results that Btd mainly functions in immature INPs . Btd is expressed in type II NB lineages and a subset of type I NB lineages . mCD8-GFP driven by btd-Gal4 is expressed in all type II NB lineages  but not type I NB lineages  on the dorsal side of a 3rd instar larval brain . A btd-GAL4 mutant type II NB clone has a similar number of mature INPs as wild-type type II NB clone . Quantifications of the number of mature INPs in wild-type and btd-GAL4 mutant type II NB clones . Btd RNAi knockdown driven by btd-GAL4 completely eliminates mature INPs in all type II NB lineages in a 3rd instar larval brain . The expression of UAS-mSp8 driven by btd-GAL4 fully rescues the loss of mature INPs in all type II NB lineages resulting from Btd RNAi knockdown . The expression of UAS-btd driven by btd-GAL4 partially rescues the loss of mature INPs in type II NB lineages resulting from Btd RNAi knockdown . Quantifications of the percentage of type II NB lineages with mature INPs  and the number of mature INPs  in 3rd instar larvae with indicated genotypes . 015 In addition to type II NB lineages , mCD8-GFP driven by btd-GAL4 is also expressed in two type I NB lineages on the ventral side of larval brains as well as about 31 type I NB lineages in the ventral nerve cord   . The expression pattern of btd-GAL4 in single type I NB lineages is similar to those of other NB GAL4 lines such as insc-GAL4  , suggesting that Btd likely functions in the NB in these type I NB lineages . Ectopic expression of PntP1 consistently promotes the generation of INP-like cells in Btd-positive type I NB lineages in larval brains . The ectopic expression of PntP1 driven by btd-GAL4 suppresses Ase in the NB  and induces the generation of Ase+ Dpn+ INP-like cells   , which also express INP-specific marker R9D11-CD4-tdTomato  . The expression of PntP1 driven by tub-GAL4 suppresses Ase in both wild-type  and btd mutant  type I NBs  but only induced the generation of INP-like cells in the wild-type type I NB clone  but not in the btd mutant clone  . insc-GAL4 drives the expression of UAS-mCD8-GFP alone  or together with UAS-btd  , UAS-pntP1  , or UAS-btd plus UAS-pntP1  in type I NB lineages . The expression of UAS-btd  or UAS-pntP1  alone promotes the generation of INP-like cells only in small subset of type I NB lineages  . The expression of Btd only suppresses/reduces Ase expression in type I NBs  that produce INP-like cells  but not in other type I NBs  , where PntP1 suppresses Ase in nearly all type I NBs  regardless of the generation of INP-like cells  . Co-expression of Btd and PntP1 promotes the generation of INP-like cells nearly in all type I NB lineages   . Btd and PntP1 function cooperatively to induce the generation of INP-like cells in type I NB lineages in the VNC . Type I NB lineages labeled by mCD8-GFP driven by btd-GAL4 in the VNCs have no INPs  . Expression of PntP1 driven by btd-GAL4 induces the generation of INP-like cells  in nearly all Btd-positive lineages  . Expression of UAS-btd driven by insc-GAL4 neither suppresses Ase in the NB nor induces the generation of INP-like cells in type I NB lineages  in the VNC . Expression of UAS-pntP1 driven by insc-GAL4 suppresses Ase in nearly all NBs  and induces the generation of INP-like cells in a subset of type I NB lineages  in the VNC . Co-expression of UAS-btd and UAS-pntP1 driven by insc-GAL4 induces INP-like cells in almost all type I NB lineages  in the VNC . Overexpression of Btd induces the generation of INP-like cells in a subset of type I NB lineages on the ventral side of a larval brain as indicated by the expression of R9D11-CD4-tdTomato  . 018 In order to determine if the btd-GAL4 reflects the endogenous Btd expression pattern in the central brain , we tried to rescue the btd loss-of-function phenotypes by expressing UAS-mSp8 or UAS-btd driven by btd-GAL4 . However , the GAL4 insertion in the btd-GAL4 line does not affect the type II NB lineage development although it causes a lethal mutation of btd  . Therefore , we tried to rescue Btd RNAi knockdown phenotypes by the expression of UAS-mSp8 or UAS-btd driven by btd-GAL4 instead . The expression of UAS-btd RNAi driven by btd-GAL4 completely eliminated mature INPs in nearly all type II NB lineages  , which was much stronger than the phenotype of Btd RNAi knockdown driven by pntP1-GAL4 . As expected , the expression of UAS-mSp8 driven by btd-GAL4 fully rescued the loss of INPs resulting from Btd RNAi knockdown in all type II NB lineages  . Similarly , the expression of UAS-btd driven by btd-GAL4 partially rescued the loss of INPs in about 67% of lineages  . The incomplete rescue by UAS-btd is likely because UAS-btd contains the sequence targeted by UAS-btd RNAi . The rescue of Btd RNAi knockdown phenotypes by the expression of UAS-mSp8 and UAS-btd driven by btd-GAL4 together with the strong loss of INP phenotypes in all btd mutant type II NB clones strongly argue that btd-GAL4 expression is likely consistent with the endogenous Btd expression pattern in the central brain . Since Btd is expressed in much more type I NB lineages in VNCs than in larval brains and Btd is required to prevent the premature differentiation of INPs , we wondered if ectopic PntP1-induced generation of INP-like cells requires Btd activity and occurs mostly in Btd-positive type I NB lineages . To test this idea , we examined if co-expression of PntP1 and Btd in type I NB lineages was sufficient to induce the generation of INPs and if the ectopic PntP1-induced generation of INP-like cells would be impaired in the absence of Btd . To coexpress PntP1 and Btd in type I NB lineages , we used either btd-GAL4 to drive the expression of UAS-pntP1 in Btd-positive type I NB lineages or insc-GAL4 to drive the expression of UAS-pntP1 and UAS-btd simultaneously in all type I NB lineages . Since the GAL4 insertion in the btd-GAL4 line causes a lethal mutation in btd  , we examined the phenotype of the expression of UAS-pntP1 driven by btd-GAL4 only in btd-GAL4 heterozygous female larvae . As shown in Figure 6A–A′ , type II NB lineages in btd-GAL4 heterozygous mutant larvae are indistinguishable from those in wild-type animals  . Interestingly , ectopic expression of PntP1 using btd-GAL4 as a driver induced the generation of INP-like cells in about 90% Btd-positive type I NB lineages in both larval brains  and VNCs  . Consistently , the co-expression of UAS-pntP1 and UAS-btd driven by insc-GAL4 induced INP-like cells in about 95% of type I NB lineages in both larval brains and VNCs  . In contrast , the expression of UAS-pntP1 alone driven by insc-GAL4 only induced INP-like cells in about 10% and 46% of type I NB lineages in larval brains  and VNCs  , respectively , although ectopic PntP1 expression suppressed Ase in nearly all type I NBs  . The expression of UAS-btd alone neither suppressed Ase nor induced the generation of INP-like cells in VNCs  , whereas in larval brains , the expression of UAS-btd driven by insc-GAL4 suppressed/reduced the expression of Ase in the NB and promoted the generation of INP-like cells in about 20% of type I NB lineages  . These results indicate that the generation of INP-like cells induced by the ectopic PntP1 expression requires Btd activity , whereas the expression of either PntP1 or Btd alone has limited ability to induce the generation of INP-like cells in type I NB lineages . To further confirm if Btd is required for ectopic PntP1 to induce the generation of INP-like cells , we then examined if the generation of INP-like cells induced by ectopic PntP1 expression would be impaired in the absence of Btd . To this end , we expressed UAS-pntP1 in wild-type or btd mutant type I NB clones in VNCs in that there are more Btd-positive type I NB lineages and the expression of UAS-pntP1 can induce INP-like cells in much more type I NB lineages in VNCs than in larval brains . Consistent with the induction of INP-like cells in nearly all type I NB lineages when PntP1 and Btd were coexpressed , the efficiency of PntP1 to induce the generation of INP-like cell was drastically reduced in the absence of Btd . Our results showed that the expression of UAS-pntP1 driven by tub-GAL4 could have induced the generation of INP-like cells in about 50% of wild-type type I NB clones but not in btd mutant type I NB clones , although the expression of PntP1 equally suppressed the expression of Ase in both wild-type and btd mutant type I NBs  . These results provide additional evidence to support that only in the presence of Btd could PntP1 induce the generation of INP-like cells in type I NB lineages . Thus this study together with our previous work  identified two key factors , PntP1 and Btd , a combination of which is sufficient to specify type II NB lineages and promote INP generation . In addition , about 40% of btd mutant type II NB lineages ectopically express Ase in the NB and become type I-like NB lineages . However , although forced expression of Ase in type II NBs is sufficient to eliminate INPs in type II NB lineages  , the loss of INPs is obviously not primarily due to the ectopic Ase expression or the transformation of type II NB lineages into type I-like NB lineage in that the loss of mature INPs occurs independently of the ectopic Ase expression in most btd mutant or Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages . Instead , we demonstrate that the loss of mature INPs in the absence of Btd is due to the premature differentiation of Ase+ immature INPs into GMCs . We show that in Btd RNAi knockdown or btd mutant type II NB lineages without the ectopic Ase expression , Ase− immature INPs differentiate into Ase+ immature INPs normally as indicated by the expression of R9D11-mCD8-GFP , Mira , as well as PntP1 in Ase+ daughter cells next to the Ase− immature INPs . However , instead of differentiating into mature INPs , we argue that Ase+ immature INPs prematurely differentiate into GMCs based on the following two pieces of evidence . Therefore , the elimination of mature INPs resulting from the loss of Btd is due to the premature differentiation of Ase+ immature INPs into GMCs . Our results show that the loss of Btd results in a reduction or loss of PntP1 in type II NBs and immature INPs as well as ectopic expression of Pros in early immature INPs . Our previous studies show that PntP1 suppresses Ase in type II NBs and that inhibiting PntP1 activity leads to ectopic expression of Ase in type II NBs and elimination of INPs  . Given that the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs is closely associated with the severe reduction or complete loss of PntP1 and that expression of UAS-pntP1 largely suppresses the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs , the severe reduction or loss of PntP1 most likely accounts for the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs . However , although the loss of PntP1 could lead to the loss of INPs , we provide several lines of evidence to demonstrate that the elimination of INPs in btd mutant or Btd RNAi knockdown type II NB lineages is primarily due to the ectopic activation of Pros in immature INPs rather than the reduction or loss of PntP1 . First , ectopic nuclear Pros is consistently expressed in Ase− immature INPs when mature INPs are eliminated . Third , Pros RNAi knockdown also rescues the reduction of PntP1 and suppresses the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs . In contrast , the expression of UAS-pntP1 fails to rescue mature INPs in most btd mutant type II NB lineages although it largely suppresses the ectopic Ase expression in the NBs . Furthermore , the complete elimination of mature INPs is also observed occasionally in btd mutant type II NB lineages without the reduction of PntP1 . Therefore , the elimination of mature INPs resulting from the loss of Btd is primarily due to the ectopic Pros expression , which likely promotes premature differentiation of INPs into GMCs and cell cycle exit . The severe reduction or loss of PntP1 is responsible for the ectopic Ase expression in btd mutant type II NBs and is more likely a secondary effect due to the ectopic Pros expression and/or the loss of INPs . The ectopic expression of Pros in Ase− immature INPs resulting from the loss of Btd suggests that Btd is critical for suppressing Pros expression in Ase− immature INPs . Our results show that ectopic/overly expression of Btd in type I NB lineages or mature INPs does not lead to overproliferation of type I NBs as observed in pros mutant type I NB lineages . Instead , ectopic expression of Btd promotes the generation of INP-like cells from type I NBs and transforms some type I NB lineages into type II-like NB lineages . Since Ase and R9D11-Cd4-tdTomato , which are under the control of erm promoter , are not expressed in Ase− immature INPs in the absence of Btd , it is unlikely that they are involved in the activation of pros in immature INPs . In this study , we provided several lines of evidence to demonstrate that Btd and PntP1 function cooperatively to specify type II NB lineages and promote the generation of INPs . Results from this study as well as our previous study  show that ectopic expression of UAS-pntP1 or UAS-btd alone can only promote the generation of INP-like cells in a subset of type I NB lineage , whereas ectopic expression of UAS-pntP1 in Btd-positive type I NB lineages or co-expression of UAS-btd and UAS-pntP1 can promote the generation of INP-like cells in nearly all type I NB lineages and transforms all these lineages into type II-like NB lineages . Consistently , the ability of PntP1 to promote the generation of INP-like cells in btd mutant type I NB lineages is largely impaired . These results suggest that the specification of type II NB lineages and the generation of INPs requires both PntP1 and Btd and that the combinatorial PntP1 and Btd is sufficient to promote the generation of INPs . Meanwhile , PntP1 must be regulating the expression of other unknown target gene  that are/is essential for the generation of INPs , such as specification of immature INPs , because loss of Ase is not sufficient to promote the generation of INP-like cells in any type I NB lineages . Btd likely acts after PntP1 to mainly prevent premature differentiation of INPs into GMCs by indirectly suppressing pros in immature INPs . The role of Btd in suppressing Ase in type II NBs is minimal if there is any because unlike PntP1 , which suppresses ase in nearly all type I NBs when it is ectopically expressed , overexpression of Btd only suppresses Ase in a small subset of type I NBs that produce INP-like cells in larval brains . Furthermore , Ase is expressed in Btd+ type I NBs , indicating that Btd does not suppress Ase in type I NBs when it is expressed at normal levels . However , inhibiting Wnt signaling alone in type II NB lineages does not have any obvious phenotypes  , indicating that Btd unlikely functions downstream of Wnt signaling in type II NB lineages . Our results show that mammalian Sp8 can rescue the loss of mature INPs resulting from the loss of Btd in Drosophila , suggesting that Btd/Sp8 could have conserved functions across different species . For btd loss-of-function analyses , yw btdXA FRT19A/FM7c and yw btdXG81 FRT19A/FM7c  were used for generating btd mutant clones and UAS-btd RNAi  for Btd RNAi knockdown . Type II NB lineage-specific pntP1-GAL4   and erm-GAL4  or   were used to drive the expression of UAS-transgenes in type II NB lineages or in immature as well as mature INPs , respectively . The R9D11-CD4-tdTomato transgenic line  was used for labeling Ase+ immature INPs and mature INPs . Other fly stocks include: hs-Flpase tub-GAL80 FRT19A; UAS-mCD8-GFP; pntP1-GAL4 for generating type II NB clones; pros17/TM6 Tb , pros10419/Tm3 Sb , and UAS-pros RNAi  for rescuing Btd loss-of-function phenotypes . For quantifications of the number of mature INPs or the percentage of type II NB lineages with mature INPs , we focus on the medial group of type II NB lineages  . "
"The 21-subunit Mediator complex transduces regulatory information from enhancers to promoters , and performs an essential role in the initiation of transcription in all eukaryotes . We have performed chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry , and combined the results with information from X-ray crystallography , homology modeling , and cryo-electron microscopy by an integrative modeling approach to determine a 3-D model of the entire Mediator complex . The model shows the locations and orientations of all Mediator subunits , as well as subunit interfaces and some secondary structural elements . Mediator is a complex of at least 21 subunits , with a mass of greater than 1 million Daltons , conserved from yeast to humans  . Biochemical studies have confirmed the importance of Mediator for both basal and regulated transcription , and have demonstrated interactions of Mediator with pol II , with general transcription factors , and with transcriptional activator proteins . Through these interactions , Mediator is thought to promote assembly of the entire machinery for pol II transcription . Electron microscopy  has shown a division of Mediator in three modules , termed Head , Middle , and Tail  . EM studies further showed that Mediator structure is conserved from yeast to humans , that Mediator is compact when free in solution , and that a major structural rearrangement occurs upon interaction with pol II , which is surrounded by the Head and Middle modules in the so-called ‘holoenzyme’  . Details of subunit interaction networks within Mediator modules have come from co-expression studies  and from Mediator-specific  and genome-wide  two-hybrid approaches . The currently accepted subunit assignments are Med 6-8-11-17  -18  -20  -22  in the Head module , Med 1-4-7-9  -10  -19  -21  -31  in the Middle module , and Med 2-3  -5  -14  -15  -16  in the Tail module  . X-ray crystal structures of Head modules from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe have been determined , with  and without  the carboxy-terminal domain  of the largest pol II subunit , Rpb1 , bound to a conserved site on the surface . CTD interaction with Head and Middle modules plays an important role in the association of Mediator with pol II and the pre-initiation complex . Beyond the X-ray crystallography of the Head module , structural information on Mediator is limited . EM at low resolution with subunit-labeling has given an approximate idea of the spatial organization of the modules  , and an architectural model for a subcomplex of the Middle module  has been proposed on the basis of cross-linking data and homology modeling  . Recently , reconstituted yeast Head and Middle Mediator modules were visualized by EM in a complex with pol II and a subset of general transcription factors  . For the study of such systems , data from chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry can provide multi-protein interaction maps at residue-level resolution  . Here we determined the molecular architecture of Mediator by integrative structure determination , based on chemical cross-links , X-ray crystal structures , homology models , and a cryo-EM electron density map , with the use of IMP . Possible configurations of the Mediator subunits were exhaustively sampled to identify those that best satisfied the experimental restraints . The resulting model was validated by re-computing it with random subsets of chemical cross-links   as well as by comparison with known protein structures and protein interaction networks  . The Mediator model will serve as a basis for studies of Mediator interaction with pol II , general transcription factors , gene activators , and gene repressors . Mediator was isolated from yeast as originally described  in the form of a complex with pol II  . The complex is not only a functionally relevant form of Mediator , but is also more soluble than free Mediator under the conditions used for lysine directed cross-linking . The native complex was stable , persisting throughout purification , whereas a complex formed from separately isolated Mediator and pol II was disrupted by the same purification procedures . Cross-linking and mass spectrometry were performed on the native holoenzyme , with a mixture of D12-labelled and unlabeled BS3 cross-linking reagents , or with unlabeled BS3 and enrichment of cross-linked trypsin fragments by gel filtration . The majority  were between Mediator proteins , 124 were between pol II subunits , and 18 were between Mediator and pol II . Mapping identified cross-linked spectra onto regions of known structure such as the Mediator Head module and RNA polymerase II yields distance distributions that reflect the accuracy of cross-link identification . Demonstration of RNA pol II structural recapitulation from a random starting configuration  of individual pol II subunits represented as rigid bead models and restrained by cross-links  and electron microscopy  density map  . A representation of the converged modeling solution is presented alongside the 12-subunit pol II X-ray structure  for reference . Schematic representation of the Mediator complex cross-linking network . Mediator subunits are colored according to their location within the Head , Middle and Tail modules . All Inter-subunit cross-links and selected intra-subunit cross-links from the current study as well from  are represented , colored according to their origin . Categorization of cross-links with respect to module and data source . Numbers of unique cross-linked residue pairs  and cross-linked spectral matches used for integrative modeling of Mediator apo-complex  as well as total number of holoenzyme cross-links identified in this study  . In the procedure , a mixture of holoenzyme and free Mediator and RNA Pol II are affinity captured , with release of free Mediator through TEV cleavage  and subsequent release of holoenzyme and free Mediator upon 3C protease cleavage  . Following the enrichment of Mediator-bound pol II using ion-exchange chromatography , the holoenzyme was purified to homogeneity using size-exclusion chromatography  . Mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the presence of all 21 Mediator and 12 pol II subunits  . HCD product ion spectra of BS3 cross-linked Mediator tryptic peptides classified by Protein Prospector . The full list of cross-linked Mediator peptides may be viewed online using search key = qzpxihtngx at: http://prospector2 . 006 The pol II component of the holoenzyme provided an internal control , enabling validation of the cross-link dataset by two approaches . First , the X-ray crystal structure of pol II and also that of the Mediator Head module could be used to assess the validity of cross-links , as 130 of the 402 high confidence cross-links were between residues in these structures . Second , we constructed an integrative model of pol II based on the cross-link dataset , a cryo-EM electron density map  , and X-ray crystal structures of the pol II subunits , using IMP . A low resolution EM map was used for comparison with the EM data available for Mediator  . All subunits were correctly placed , except for Rpb8 and Rpb9 , whose locations were undetermined , due to a lack of cross-link restraints . We augmented our Mediator cross-link dataset with 38 Mediator Middle module cross-links from a dataset collected on a recombinant preparation of S . cerevisiae Middle module containing 6 subunits  . The 38 cross-links were selected according to our minimal length requirement of four amino acid residues per cross-linked peptide; three cross-links were common to both datasets . This modest overlap is likely due to the use of a different chemical cross-linker , as well as to the presence of additional subunits in our full native Middle module . The complete dataset of 294 inter-subunit cross-links defined an interaction map of 19 of the 21 Mediator proteins  . The two subunits for which there were no inter-subunit cross-links have been crystallized in complexes with other Mediator subunits: Med6 as part of the Head module  , and Med31 in a complex with the N-terminal region of Med7  . Two subunits , Med17  and Med14  showed patterns of cross-links split between two or more different Mediator modules . The majority of Med17  formed an extensive cross-link network with other subunits of the Head module , as expected from the X-ray crystal structure  . The N-terminal region of Med17  , not observed in the Head module crystal structure , formed many cross-links with Med7 and Med21 , subunits of the Middle module  . Similarly , Med14 , a presumptive Tail module subunit , formed cross-links to other Tail module proteins  , but almost exclusively in its C-terminal region  , while the N-terminal region and the majority of the protein  cross-linked instead to Middle module subunits  . The N-terminal regions of Med17 and Med14 not only extended into the Middle module but also formed many cross-links with each other . For these reasons , we redefine the Mediator modules to include the N-terminal domains of Med17  and Med14  in the Middle module rather than the Head and Tail modules  . Although cross-linking was performed on the holoenzyme , about 90% of the cross-links in our dataset were within Mediator modules  or within pol II . Due to the paucity of cross-links between Mediator and pol II , and because a cryo-EM map at sufficient resolution for molecular modeling was only available for Mediator without pol II , modeling calculations were performed for Mediator alone . In step 1 , the data comprised our holoenzyme cross-link dataset , X-ray crystal structures of some subunits and subunit regions , homology models for some subunits , and the highest resolution cryo-EM map of free Mediator available  . In step 2 , we constructed a set of 21 Mediator subunit model representations  . Atomic models from X-ray crystallography or homology models were represented by rigid bodies  , and unmodeled subunit regions were represented as flexible strings of beads  . The entire Head module was represented as a rigid body  , with the exception of the unmodeled N-terminus of Med17  , the last 103 residues of Med6 , and other missing regions , all of which were represented as flexible strings of beads . Manual docking and the mapping of Med 8 , 18 , and 20 onto 2-D EM projections previously supported a single docking solution for the Head module in the EM density  . We performed an exhaustive docking calculation , comparing all possible Head module locations with a cross-correlation scoring function  . We modeled the Mediator complex with the Head module fixed in a single position corresponding to the highest scoring docking solution . Other regions defined by atomic models were Med7C-Med21 and Med7N-Med31 , represented by rigid bodies based on their X-ray structures  , and Med4-Med9 , based on a homology model  . In addition , we created a homology model of the first 540 residues of Med16 , also in a rigid body representation , based on a seven-bladed β-propeller fold  . Since the Head module was docked and fixed in a portion of the density map , the remaining density was segmented into regions corresponding to the Middle and Tail modules on the basis of previous approximate localization of Middle and Tail module subunits within two distinct regions of the EM map  . During modeling , each Middle or Tail subunit was restrained to the corresponding Middle or Tail EM density . We split the cross-link dataset into two subsets composed of inter-module  and intra-module  cross-links  . Intra-module cross-links were satisfied to a high degree  , and inter-modular cross-links to a much lesser degree   . In fact , the Bayesian scoring function automatically assigned a low scoring weight to the inter-modular cross-links , pointing to an inconsistency of the inter-modular cross-links in the holoenzyme dataset with the EM density map of the free Mediator . The satisfaction of intra-modular cross-links suggests that the arrangement of Mediator subunits within modules of the holoenzyme is similar to that in the free Mediator , whereas the inconsistency of the inter-modular cross-links with the EM map suggests that motions of the modules relative to one another occur upon association with pol II in the holoenzyme . Indeed , EM studies have indicated large motions about hinges between the modules , opening the compact structure of free Mediator for wrapping around pol II in the holoenzyme  . Based on these observations , the inter-modular cross-links were not considered in our analysis of the free Mediator . Cluster 3 , which represented a minor subset of best-scoring models  , differed from the other clusters by an inversion of orientation of the Middle module . This cluster was disregarded because the inverted orientation was inconsistent with prior EM localization experiments  and because of significantly worse intra-module cross-link violation statistics  . The remaining three clusters were virtually identical in the locations of all subunits except for Med5 , Med15 , and Med16 in the Tail module  . Cluster 1 was therefore taken to represent the true Mediator subunit architecture . Although the precision of the Tail module is lower than that of the Middle or Head modules , it is sufficient to position the Tail subunits within the Tail EM density as features with high cross-link density , and consequently high local precision values  , provide strong spatial restraints . The overall precision of the Mediator model sufficed to determine the positions and orientations of all Mediator subunits , and 20–40 residue beads could be localized with precisions of 10–50 Å  , depending on the density of cross-linking restraints . Because the model is three-dimensional , it depicts the contact surfaces between subunits , with residue-level resolution at many points where cross-links are formed between them . This contact information is especially rich and reliable in regions where multiple cross-links are formed and where contacts occur in multiple models in the cluster , as depicted by the darkest boxes in the domain interaction map  . Some cross-links anticipated from the domain interaction map were not observed , most likely because cross-linking depends on the occurrence of unprotonated , appropriately oriented , solvent–accessible pairs of lysine residues , and on the formation of tryptic peptides with physicochemical properties amenable to liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry . Mediator subunit localization density map colored by individual subunit . Mediator localization density map  calculated from the highest scoring model cluster and shown at a threshold level  that most closely matches the volume of the EM density map used as 3D spatial restraint during modeling  . The position of the three Mediator modules  is indicated . Med14 and Med17-NTD are also schematically represented by splines . Nodes are Mediator subunits , the edges are the observed proteomic interactions , and the green circles are isolated sub-complexes . Individual Mediator subunit model representations are grouped according by membership within the Head , Middle , and Tail modules . The subunit substructure is mapped onto the protein sequence and coloured according to atomic model coverage  or bead structure  where each bead in the subunit model is represented by a single box in the schematic representation . Number of satisfied intra-module cross-links plotted against the score for all 165 , 523 models . Detailed statistics of cross-link satisfaction for the whole dataset  , intra-module cross links  , and inter-module cross-links  . Student t-test analysis of the intra-module cross-link violation distance . Agreement between subunit localization in Cluster 1  and the interpretation of localization data mapped on the EM density map of the Tail module  . Precision of Cluster 1 solutions  and average RMSD between Cluster 1 solutions  computed for the four ensembles , considering the whole Mediator complex , the Middle module , and the Tail module . Root-mean-square fluctuation  plots for each subunit of the Middle and Tail modules show how precisely the residues of all proteins were localized within the best cluster of models . Precision plots show the relative localization precision of each subunit of the Mediator complex , grouped by membership in the Head , Middle , and Tail domains . The high localization precision of Head module subunits is due to the Head module X-ray structure being fixed at a single position in the EM map . Within the Middle module , the subunits comprising the backbone scaffold  are all precisely localized . 013 The Mediator model  fits the EM map used as a modeling restraint  , satisfied most of the cross-link restraints  , and was consistent with almost all data from previous subunit interaction and subunit localization studies  . There were only three discrepancies  , corresponding to the Med3-Med21 , Med1-Med7 , and Med1-Med5 interactions . The Med3-Med21 interaction , from two-hybrid data , is clearly spurious , because the proteins are found in different Mediator modules  and our model , consistent with an EM localization study  , places the two subunits more than 100 Å apart . A second subunit interaction that is unsupported by our model , between the C-terminal domain of Med1 and Med5 , also comes from two-hybrid data  . The holoenzyme cross-link dataset includes one cross-link of Med5  to Med1  and two cross-links of Med5  to Med15  . Because the Med1-Med5 cross-links are inter-modular , they were assigned lower weights by our scoring function and were not satisfied in the final model . It is possible that the interactions occur in alternative conformational states , where Med1 is in close proximity to Med5 . A third subunit interaction that is unsupported by our model , between Med1-Med7 , comes from immunoprecipitation data  , and cannot be ruled out , because the N-terminus of Med1 is in the vicinity of the 16 C-terminal residues of Med7 , which are unmodeled in the crystal structure and not well localized in our study  . A lack of lysine residues in the 16 C-terminal residues of Med7 might explain why this putative interaction was not detected by cross-linking . Our Mediator model was also validated by comparison with results of previous EM studies that mapped subunit terminal tags or subunit deletions onto 2-D class averages  . It also confirms a proposal that a Med7C-Med21-Med4-Med9 tetramer serves as a structural backbone within the central portion of the Middle module   . Architecture of the Mediator Middle module . Blow-out views of the Middle module subunit localization maps with the first view and coloring identical to Figure 2A and the second view related by a 180° rotation around the y-axis . Each square is a contact map calculated between a given pair of Middle module proteins with border length proportional to the length of corresponding subunit sequences . The colored circles are observed cross-links , where the green and orange colors represent respectively satisfied and violated cross-links for the cluster center ( i . Top view of Middle module with individual panels showing the full localization map of each Middle subunit within its surrounding density , made semi-transparent for visual clarity . In the central portion of the Middle module the end-to-end stacking of Med7C-21  and Med4-9  heterodimers forms a backbone scaffold  , upon which Med10 and Med19 associate at the Med7C-21 extreme  while Med1 associates closely with the N-terminal portions of Med4-9  . The Med7N-31 complex  is located proximal to the Med7C-21 heterodimer and the unmodeled carboxy-terminal domain  of Med4  . The centrally located Med17 NTD  is wedged between the Med7C-21-4-9 backbone and Med14 , which forms contacts with Med10 and Med21 at its extreme NTD , while the bulk of its density localizes to Med4-9 and Med1  . 014 The proposed structure of the Med7C-Med21-Med4-Med9 tetramer was based on a set of 40 cross-links , an X-ray crystal structure of Med7C-Med21 , and Med4-Med9 modeled as a structural homolog of Med7C-Med21  . Med7C and Med21 form a four-helix bundle , proposed to stack end-to-end on a four-helix bundle of Med4 and Med9 , in a manner analogous to the packing observed in Med7C-21 crystals . In our modeling , we did not impose end-to-end stacking , but rather represented the Med7C-21 crystal structure and the Med4-Med9 homology model as two distinct rigid bodies . Satisfaction of the EM restraints in other regions of the Middle module appears to require a distortion of the putative end-to-end interaction  , and many solutions displayed a twist of one four-helix bundle with respect to the other , reflecting the asymmetrical nature of the Middle module EM density . The Med7C-Med21-Med4-Med9 tetramer provides a structural scaffold for the association of all remaining Middle module subunits  . The Middle module can be subdivided into two halves: Med7C-Med21 , with interacting proteins Med10 , Med19 , and Med31; and Med4-Med9 , with interacting protein Med1 . The only two proteins that interact extensively with both halves of the Middle module are Med14 and Med17 , which perform special architectural roles in the Mediator complex , discussed in more detail below . A Med7N-Med31 heterodimer , connected to the helical Med7C domain by an unstructured 27 amino acid residue linker , is localized to a distinct protrusion within the central portion of the EM map . The flexible C-terminal domain of Med4 is localized to the same region . The Med4-9 half of the Middle module is defined by a close association of the two large subunits Med1 and Med14 with opposite faces of the helical backbone . The N-terminus of Med1 forms an extensive interaction surface with Med4-9  , with eight cross-links between residues in the first 418 residues of Med1 and residues of Med4-9 located on one face of the N-terminal four-helix bundle  . This high density of cross-links leads to a precise localization of the first half of Med1 , with Cluster 1 showing low root-mean-square fluctuations  for residues within this portion of the protein . In contrast , the C-terminus of Med1 lacks cross-links  and is restrained only by the EM density , resulting in a lower precision of the model and higher RMSF values  . The region of the Tail module that abuts the Middle module is a rich subunit interaction hub , composed of residues from the N-termini of Med2 and Med3 and the C-termini of Med15 and Med16  . The C-terminus of Med14 also contributes to the structure of this region , consistent with the finding that a C-terminal deletion of Med14 results in the loss of all Tail subunits from Mediator  . The Med2 and Med3 NTDs are modeled with relatively high precision  , and structural similarity searches with these NTDs show a number of high similarity hits to coiled-coil proteins , in particular to multiple chains within the highly elongated Fibrinogen trimeric coiled-coil structure  . These analyses , together with the co-localization of these domains in our Mediator model and the previous observation that Med2 and Med3 can be isolated as a heterodimer  , suggest that the N-termini of Med2 and 3 form a coiled-coil motif in the Middle-Tail contact region . Architecture of the Mediator Tail module . Subunit localization within the Tail module . β-propeller model of the Med16 NTD . The location of 7 WD domains within the N-terminus of Med16 , predicted by MSA analysis  , is shown in the context of the predicted Med16 N-term secondary structure  . Schematic showing the predicted coiled-coil regions of three interacting Tail proteins , Med2 , Med3 and Med15 . The co-localization of the Med2/3 N-termini and Med15 C-term  supports the formation of a coiled-coil at this tail locus . Novel structural insights into Mediator complex architecture and module connectivity . Subunit localization density for Med17  reveals the extension of the unmodeled N-terminal domain to contact Middle module subunits . The N-terminus of the Head subunit Med17  forms an extensive cross-linking network  within the Middle module , acting as an inter-modular bridge  . Head and Middle module ribbon models are colored light grey and according to their subunit color in Figure 2A , respectively , and unmodeled residues cross-linked to Med17 are represented with light grey beads . Only Med17 beads with cross-links are shown for clarity and coordinates are derived from the full-complex centroid model . Subunit localization density for Med14  highlights its unique function as a Mediator scaffold protein spanning ∼220 Å to connect all three modules . The N-terminus of Med14 forms an extensive cross-linking network across the full Middle module . The structural elements of Med14 and other subunits are represented as in left panel of  . The localization of the Med14 CTD to the Middle-Tail junction is observed through a pair of cross-links to a Tail protein located in the region  . A detailed stick representation of the subunit localization and cross-linking network within the Middle-Tail junction . Subunit localization density for the subunits localized in the central portion of the Tail module . Bead representation of the cross-links involving the N- and C-terminal portions of Med16  with Med5  and Med15  , respectively . The Med16 N-terminal β-propeller is centrally located in the Tail module and forms extensive interactions with Med5 . The Med16 CTD links Med16-Med5 with the remainder of the Tail . 017 Med15 is co-localized in our Mediator model with Med2 and Med3 and can be isolated with Med2 and Med3 in a trimeric complex  . Central residues of Med15 exhibit homology to Fibrinogen  , and may participate in a coiled-coil structure , but it is the C-terminal domain of Med15  that interacts with Med2 and Med3 in the Middle-Tail contact region . The Med15 CTD also interacts with the Med16 CTD , apparently stabilizing the association of Med16 within the Tail , and that of Med5 as well , because truncation of the Med16 CTD results in the dissociation of both Med16 and Med5 from the Mediator  . Previous sequence analysis of Mediator subunits identified seven WD repeats in the N-terminal domain of Med16   . We used a homology model , in which the first 540 residues of Med16 were mapped onto the Sec31 β-propeller structure , in our modeling of the Tail module architecture  . Two intra-protein cross-links of Med16 could be mapped onto the homology model without violation  . In our model , the Med16 β-propeller was located in a central position at the base of the Tail module , making extensive contacts with Med5  . The central location of Med16 within the Tail module and a large interaction surface with Med5 are consistent with the finding that the entire Tail module is destabilized and lost in Mediator preparations from a strain from which the MED16 gene was deleted  . In contrast , Med5 occupies a terminal position within the Tail module , and the MED5 gene can be deleted without disrupting the remainder of the module  . Although the majority of Med5 occupies a single location within the Tail module , the N-domain of Med5 follows a path around the outside edge of the Med16 β-propeller domain before interacting with Med15 at a more internal locus  . This interaction is consistent with an earlier finding that Med5 can form a tetrameric complex with the Med2-Med3-Med15 trimer in the absence of Med16  . Especially noteworthy in our Mediator model are the special roles performed by Med17 and Med14 . An integral component of the Mediator Head module , Med17 is of particular interest for a temperature sensitive allele  in which all pol II-dependent transcription is abolished at the restrictive temperature  . N-terminal truncations of Med17 in S . The N-terminal 181 residues of Med17 are disordered in Mediator Head module crystals . Our Mediator model reveals a central role of the Med17 N-terminal domain in the connection between the Head and Middle modules . The Med17 NTD is strongly localized at a central site in the Middle module , wedged between Med7-Med21-Med4-Med9 backbone density on one side and Med14 density on the other  . The entire path of Med17 from this Middle interaction site to its first modeled residue in the Head module is clearly resolved in the model  . The essential Med14 subunit was originally identified as a repressor protein in yeast  . Reports of the location of Med14 in the Mediator have been contradictory . Med14 truncations uncouple the Tail module , suggesting that Med14 is primarily a Middle module protein  , but in yeast strains in which the Middle module has been disrupted by subunit deletion , Med14 remains associated with the Tail  . Furthermore , Med14 is required along with reconstituted Head and Middle modules for basal transcription in vitro in Mediator-depleted cell extracts  . Med14 formed cross-links with components of the reconstituted Head and Middle modules , as well as with Med17  . In our Mediator model , Med14 makes extensive contacts with proteins from all three modules , and is the only Mediator subunit that does so  . It spans almost the entire Mediator complex , extending a distance of about 220 Å from N-terminal interactions with Med10-Med19 at the tip of the Middle module to C-terminal interactions at the Middle-Tail contact region  . Med14 residues 264–600 interact with the Med4-Med9 four-helix bundle  . Med14 residues 247–350 participate in bridging the Head and Middle modules through multiple contacts with the Med17 NTD . Additional interactions with the Head module proteins are suggested by contacts of Med14 residues 601–1082 with Med20 and the C-terminal region of Med17   . 7 Å structure of a yeast ‘core initiation complex’ , comprising the Mediator Head module , a minimal Middle module , pol II , a nucleic acid scaffold , and the general transcription factors TBP , TFIIB and TFIIF , obtained by cryo-EM and chemical cross-linking  . The Mediator portion of the cryo-EM map represents only about 50% of the mass of Mediator , as the ‘core initiation complex’ does not include the 480 kDa Tail module or the Middle module protein Med1 . The structure shows the ‘neck’ of the Head module binding to pol II near subunits Rpb 4 and Rpb7 , with the ‘mobile jaw’ regions of Med 18 and Med20 extending to contact the TFIIB-binding site and subunits Rpb 3 , 10 , 11 , and 12 . Cross-links between subunits within the Head  and Middle  modules are in complete agreement with our three-dimensional architectural model of the free Mediator complex  . Docking our Mediator model to the EM map of Plaschka et al . resulted in a holoenzyme model that was also largely consistent with Mediator to polymerase cross-links  identified by Plaschka et al . However , a set of 17 Mediator to polymerase cross-links from our study of holoenzyme showed agreement only in the region where the Head module contacts Rpb4 and Rpb7  . Cross-links between the Tail and Middle modules to pol II in our study were not consistent with the map of Plaschka et al . As mentioned above , cross-links between Mediator modules in our study were also poorly satisfied by the EM density for free Mediator used in our integrative modeling . Together , these findings suggest a different conformation of the Mediator-polymerase holoenzyme in the presence of the Tail module ( not included in the map of Plaschka et al .  ) Our results point to a similar contact site between the Head module and pol II to that in the model of the ‘core initiation complex’ , but suggest that a conformational change in the Mediator brings the Tail module in contact with pol II near the DNA binding cleft of pol II in the holoenzyme , a suggestion that is consistent with our own preliminary cryo-EM data on the holoenzyme   . Such conformational dynamics are in keeping with the idea that interaction between Mediator and pol II in the absence of other factors is largely determined by interactions between the Rpb1 CTD and the neck of the Head module  . Holoenzyme cross-linking data indicate different conformational states between the holoenzyme and the core Mediator initiation complex . Docking of our Mediator model to the EM density of Plaschka et al . provides a subunit architectural map that is highly consistent with the 12 Mediator to pol II cross-links of Plaschka et al . , collected on a core initiation complex containing the Mediator Head and Middle modules with pol II , nucleic acid scaffold and the general factors TBP , TFIIB and TFIIF . In contrast , the 17 equivalent Mediator to pol II cross-links of the current study are largely inconsistent with the position of Mediator modules found in the core initiation complex . Distributions of cross-link Cα distances from the two datasets measured in the context of the docked Mediator model . The pattern of holoenzyme cross-links implies a major conformational rearrangement in the presence of the Tail module and absence of DNA scaffold and general transcription factors . Agreement between the structural model of the Mediator complex and the data for the core initiation complex collected by Plaschka et al . Comparison between our model  , the EM map of the apo-mediator complex   , and the Mediator Head-Middle EM density from the core initiation complex   . In the inset , the box plots are calculated on the inter-module , intra-head module , and intra-middle module cross-links . One source of data was cross-linking , performed on a native holoenzyme , comprising pol II and Mediator , for several reasons: Mediator structure was thereby analyzed in a more functionally relevant state; the native holoenzyme , isolated from yeast , was much more soluble and stable than a reconstituted holoenzyme formed by mixing pol II and Mediator in vitro; and the X-ray crystal structure of the pol II component of the holoenzyme provided an internal control for the modeling process . We restricted our analysis to the internal organization of the three Mediator modules , because their relationship to one another is believed to differ between free Mediator and the holoenzyme , and free Mediator was the source of our EM information . Notable features of our 3-D Mediator model include the following:The definition of the three Mediator modules . Whereas Med17 and Med14 were previously classified as Head and Tail proteins , the N-terminal domains of both proteins are now seen to form part of the Middle module . The special roles of Med17 and Med14 in the architecture of the entire Mediator . Med17 connects Head and Middle modules , while Med14 extends the entire length of Mediator , connecting all three modules . The path of the NTD of Med17 , not revealed in X-ray crystal structures of the Head module , can now be followed from a site of interaction in the Middle module to its connection with the body of the protein in the Head module . The complete 3-D arrangement of subunits of the Middle module . A Med7-Med21-Med4-Med9 tetramer is seen to form the core of the module , with a cap of Med10-Med19 at one end and a cap of Med1 at the other . Of particular note are the extensive interactions of the NTDs of Med2 and Med3 and the CTDs of Med 15 and Med16 , which form the region of the Tail module that contacts the Middle module , and which is important for Mediator-activator protein interaction . The Med2-Med3-Med15 triad is a binding target of multiple yeast transcriptional activator proteins , including Gcn4 and Gal4  . Yeast harboring a Med3Δ Med15Δ double knockout exhibits decreased levels of Mediator and of transcription pre-initiation complexes at inducible gene promoters  . The NTDs of Med2 and Med3 interact in a coiled-coil motif in the Middle-Tail junction . A 7-bladed β-propeller encompassing the N-terminal half of Med16 interacts extensively with Med5 at the base of the Tail . The 3-D Mediator model not only unifies and resolves discrepancies in the extensive literature on Mediator organization , but also forms a starting point for future investigation . Our Mediator model could be docked into the Mediator portion of the EM map of Plaschka et al . , as association with pol II appears to cause little change in the structure and relative position of the Head and Middle Mediator modules compared to those in the free Mediator EM map used as restraint in our modeling study   . Our docked model provides a more detailed map of the locations of Middle module subunits across the pol II surface , and therefore allows a more complete interpretation of the Mediator portion of the map of Plaschka et al . Our model provides a structural basis for the Mediator to pol II cross-links reported by Plaschka et al . , which can be mapped with precision onto both the Mediator and pol II surfaces to yield a structurally consistent set of cross-link distances  . Furthermore , mapping novel Middle module cross-links from Plaschka et al . onto our Mediator model , we find additional strong support for the validity of our subunit localizations  . Also as mentioned above , the cross-links between Mediator modules that we obtained with holoenzyme are inconsistent with the result of docking our Mediator model into the map of Plaschka et al . We found multiple cross-links between the Tail module and the region of pol II around the active center cleft , whereas docking our Mediator model into the map of Plaschka et al . places the Tail module on the opposite side of pol II . We have noted the Mediator conformational change required to satisfy our Tail module-pol II cross-links  . Tail module interactions with pol II in the vicinity of the active center cleft may be relevant to the role of Tail module subunits Med14 , 15 and 16 in transcriptional repression at multiple loci in yeast  . The success of the integrative modeling approach in the derivation of Middle and Tail module structures warrants application to the issues raised here and to other challenging problems . It is of immediate interest to apply IMP to the holoenzyme with an expanded cross-link dataset and a high resolution holoenzyme EM map . cerevisiae Holoenzyme was purified as an intact complex using a yeast strain in which both endogenous Mediator and RNA Pol II were affinity tagged . First , the N-terminus of the essential Mediator Head module subunit , Med17p , was TAP-tagged using the N-terminus tagging cassette , including Kluyveromyces lactis TRP1 marker gene , amplified from vector pBS1761 as described previously  . The MED17 gene was returned to endogenous promoter regulation following Cre-mediated LoxP recombination driven from pSH47  . The C-terminus of the largest RNA Pol II subunit , Rpb1p , was tagged with a custom protein G affinity tag with 3C PreScission protease cleavage site . First-stage TEV cleavage led to the release of free Mediator , with Mediator retention occurring through complex formation with uncleaved RNA pol II . The holoenzyme was further purified from free RNA pol II  or Mediator  using ion exchange ( 75–600 mM  2SO4; HiTrap FFQ ) and size-exclusion ( 200 mM  2SO4 , 25 mM HEPES , pH 7 . Using the 3C-TEV cleavage order , the holoenzyme was retained longer in IE than free Mediator and could be resolved as an independent peak . For all experiments , cross-link spectral matches  were discarded if the following Protein Prospector parameters fell outside the threshold values: peptide score below 20 , peptide/protein/worse_peptide expectation values above 50 , and score_difference below 0 . Intra-protein cross-links were selected over inter-protein cross-links if there were still conflicts . MassIVE accession: MSV000079237 ProteomeXchange accession: PXD002723 Our integrative structure modeling of RNA Pol II and Mediator complexes proceeds through four stages   :  gathering of data ,  representation of subunits and translation of the data into spatial restraints ,  configurational sampling to produce an ensemble of models that satisfies the restraints , and  analysis and assessment of the ensemble . In our study , most of the best scoring models  gave a unique subunit arrangement for 18 of the 21 Mediator subunits . The divergent clusters differed only in the relative locations of Med5 , Med15 and Med16 within the Tail module  . Modeling studies of RNA pol II employed cross-link data from two sources: 156 cross-links from previous experiments conducted with the free pol II fraction isolated during our holoenzyme SEC purification  , and 108 cross-links from a previous study  . The 12 pol II subunits were represented as 15 domains , where Rpb1 was decomposed into 3 domains  , Rpb2 was decomposed into 2 domains  , and the remaining subunits were represented as single domains . "
"The neuronal computations underlying these capacity limits have been extensively studied in humans and in monkeys , resulting in competing theoretical models . We probed the working memory capacity of crows  in a change detection task , developed for monkeys  , while we performed extracellular recordings of the prefrontal-like area nidopallium caudolaterale . We found that neuronal encoding and maintenance of information were affected by item load , in a way that is virtually identical to results obtained from monkey prefrontal cortex . Here , we report that carrion crows and macaque monkeys share divisive normalization as a neuronal computation that is in line with mammalian models . While this capacity is often seen as a general cognitive bottleneck , for simple stimuli , like colors , the capacity is very similar between humans , monkeys , and crows  . This work motivated many psychophysical and electrophysiological experiments that in turn led to a spectrum of more refined models of WM  . ‘Discrete models’ of WM argue that a fixed number of items can be stored . ‘Continuous models’ describe WM as a flexible resource that is allocated to individual items . On the neurophysiological level , models of WM capacity suggest that interference between memory representations  within the neuronal network is a source of information loss and capacity limitation  . Interference may arise due to divisive normalization that appears as competition between items , related to oscillatory dynamics  , WM flexibility  , and neuronal information sampling  . Divisive normalization is a computational principle that acts upon neurons when presenting multiple stimuli simultaneously , it normalizes neuronal responses by creating ‘a ratio between the response of an individual neuron and the summed activity of a pool of neurons’  . An effect related to divisive normalization can be observed when two stimuli are presented either individually or simultaneously within the receptive field of a visual sensory neuron . Investigations into WM capacity and model predictions focus mostly on humans and monkeys . Crows have a similar limit in WM capacity and neuronal correlates of WM are comparable to monkeys’  . But while the neuronal architecture of sensory areas is similar between birds and mammals , higher associative areas , critical for WM , do not share a common architecture between the species  . Therefore , an outstanding question is whether modern models of WM such as the ‘flexible model’ capture WM capacity in general , or if their predictions  are confined to the mammalian neocortex . While the neuronal correlates of WM maintenance in birds have been investigated in some detail  , a neurophysiological investigation of WM capacity limitation is still lacking . To investigate the neurophysiology of WM capacity in birds , we adopted a task design developed for monkeys  to use it with carrion crows  . Our animals were trained to memorize an array of colors and to indicate which color had changed after a short memory delay , while we performed extracellular recordings of individual neurons in the NCL using multi-channel probes . We expected to find a clear correlate of WM representations in NCL neurons and a load-dependent response modulation based on divisive normalization of neuronal responses . This would allow us to evaluate if the behavioral WM capacity observations of crows fit a ‘discrete’ or ‘continuous’ WM resource model . If the neuronal responses also fit the contemporary neurophysiological models of WM capacity limitations  , it would further suggest that crows and monkeys have convergently evolved a similar neurophysiological basis for WM capacity despite a different architecture of the critical forebrain structures . We ran a generalized linear model with ipsilateral load  , contralateral load  and their interaction as predictors for performance ( R2adj 0 . We calculated the capacity K  for all full WM loads  . We recorded 362 neurons from the NCL of two crows performing the WM task  . A large subset of neurons responded to the presence of a color  by substantially increasing or decreasing their firing rate relative to baseline . For most neurons , this difference in firing rate between the two possible colors became attenuated when the load increased from one to two colors , and it was further attenuated from two to three colors . To quantify this effect , we calculated the amount of information about the color identity at a neuron's favorite location as the percent explained variance  during a memory load of one , two , or three items in bins of 200 ms  . Most neurons did not sustain information about color  throughout the entire sample or memory delay but rather had shorter periods in which the information was significant  . To better capture the time points when the individual neurons carried information , we performed a hierarchical clustering analysis of the PEV values of the individual neurons at load 1  . Group 1 contained neurons  that showed peak information during the sample and early delay phase , while group 2 contained neurons  that showed peak information during the delay phase . For each neuron , we then calculated if it carried a significant amount of color information by applying a permutation test  . The individual neurons were then further classified into three groups depending on the phase in which they had a significant amount of information  . 64%  of neurons were significant during both the sample phase and the memory delay  . Refer to Figure 2A for an example neuron , significant at load 1 with a large differentiation in firing rate between color identities  and a loss of differentiation with increasing ipsilateral load . Instead of losing information at higher loads , many neurons gained information  . Thus , we additionally performed the permutation testing for loads 2 and 3 to determine which neurons had significant information  . We found that many of the neurons that did not have significant information at load 1 did have significant information at load 2 and load 3  . For the memory delay , more than half of the significant neurons we detected were only significant for either load 2 or load 3 , compared to only 36% of neurons that were significant at load 1  . By including the higher loads in our analysis , we found a total of 249  sample neurons and 94  delay neurons . The clustering analysis indicated that the population of neurons as a whole did sustain the color information throughout the entire trial  . After the onset of the stimulus array , the average information exhibited a sharp increase that peaked roughly 400 ms after stimulus onset and remained at an elevated level throughout the memory delay , until the choice array appeared . Results obtained from neurons of the lateral PFC of monkeys indicated distinct hemispheric independence of WM capacity  . This means that increasing ipsilateral load  should affect neuronal processing while increasing contralateral load should not . Parallel to the behavioral results and in line with the results from monkeys , we found a strong effect of ipsilateral load on the information maintenance , as there was a sharp drop in information when the load increased from one item to two items  . The load dependence was much more pronounced during the sample period than during the memory delay where the information remained at a lower elevated level . If the number of items on the contralateral side was increased , the information encoded about the colors at the favorite location did not change  . , 2011 for testing the ipsilateral load effect during the sample and delay phase , by splitting each phase into an early and a late portion  . There was a large and significant drop between one and two items  and one and three items  but no difference between loads 2 and 3  . The maintenance of a significant amount of information at higher loads ( even for three items , early sample t  = 7 . 001 ) and its gradual reduction when items were added to the corresponding hemifield are indicative of a flexible resource allocation and not an all-or-nothing slot-like WM . The amount of information in the early and late sample phase remained above zero ( load 2: early , t  = 3 . This indicates that a failure to report which color had changed at higher loads  resulted from a smaller amount of information encoding during the sample phase that was not maintained throughout the delay . A possible alternative ‘slot-model’ explanation would be that , on error trials , the color information was completely lost after the sample phase , because it was not successfully transferred into a slot  . We next wanted to understand the neuronal mechanisms behind the information loss at higher WM loads . For that , we analyzed how the responses of individual sample and delay neurons changed when the load increased from one color to two colors . For the ‘sample populations’ and the ‘delay populations’ , an increasing number of items reduced the amount of encoded information about the color identity  . This effect was due to neurons that had a large difference of firing rates between the color A and color B at load 1  , and reduced differentiation at load 2  . Applied to our context , a consequence of DNR would be a reduced differentiation between two color identities at load 2 because differences in firing rate  at load 1 would be normalized at load 2  . We , therefore , hypothesized that DNR was observable for neurons with significant information at load 1 . We tested for DNR in the NCL by calculating a selectivity index  and a sensory interaction index  for each neuron for the sample phase and the memory delay phase  . SE indicates how strongly the neuronal response is driven by a color at the favorite location of the neuron  in relation to a selected probe color  . The addition of a probe color influences the response to the reference color by either suppressing the firing rate of the reference color  , or increasing the firing rate for the reference color  . If DNR was present , this influence to suppress or enhance neuronal responses should be an even mixture at the population level , resulting in a significant regression between SE and SI with a slope of around 0 . We compared regressions for the sample and delay phase  for two groups of neurons: information-carrying neurons  , and non-informative neurons  . We thus show that DNR was observable in the neuronal population , and as a consequence of this computation , neurons had generally less information about the color identity at load 2 . Some neurons showed encoding of color identity at higher loads , instead of loss of information . For example , the neuron shown in Figure 2B did not differentiate between color identities at load 1 but did so for load 2 , thus , representing a case of information gain  at a higher load . We wanted to understand if DNR , the mechanism that we found reduced color information at load 2 , could also produce color differentiation . The ‘normalization model of attention’  incorporates divisive normalization , and can explain how attention can modulate neuronal responses . By attending a preferred  second colored square in the load 2 condition the neuronal response of a neuron to the target location  might be altered . As a result a difference between color A and B may arise even though each color by itself elicited a similar response . Neurons without a color differentiation at load 1 that gained differentiation at load 2 through this process  should have a population regression slope smaller than 0 . We thus hypothesized that the population of neurons showing information at load 2 , but not at load 1  , would have a smaller slope than the neurons that lost information  . This indicates that these neurons were influenced more strongly by the reference color , and that the addition of the probe color at load 2 resulted in an unequal interaction . Therefore , DNR was also computationally responsible for a gain of information at load 2 , in a specific subset of neurons . In brief , we found that the WM capacity of crows is limited to about four items , and that the two visual hemifields are largely independent  . Fittingly , on the neuronal level , we found a markedly reduced amount of color information when the number of colored squares was increased from one to two  . This suggests that WM could be conceptualized as a continuous resource that has to be divided between the two items  , rather than two ‘simple’ slots that would each have the same amount of information irrespective of the memory load . On the neuronal level , recurrent connections between neurons within a hemisphere may reduce item differentiation when multiple items are present simultaneously , creating capacity limitations within the hemisphere  . Like in monkeys , WM capacity in crows may therefore result from neuronal activity patterns governed by multiple individual items . We probed the WM capacity of crows using colored squares , based on the task design of Buschman et al . Using the identical task allowed us to directly compare our neuronal results of WM capacity from NCL to results from PFC of monkeys . In a task similar to the one used here , Lara and Wallis , 2014 , have found that neurons in the PFC of monkeys encoded nearly no information about color , but instead about location . In their task monkeys had to memorize the color of squares at two locations on a screen , and were again confronted with a colored square at one of the two locations after a delay . Lara and Wallis , 2014 , discuss the absence of color information in the neurons they recorded in relation to the task of Buschman et al . Similar to the complex contribution of PFC neurons to WM , neurons of NCL can also encode a wide range of very different task relevant aspects , like color  , spatial locations  , and more abstract items like rules  and numerosities  . One way to circumvent WM failure when item load increases is to allocate attention . Our results suggest that attention may play an important role in crow WM . Capacity limitation became apparent during encoding , as the amount of information at the end of the sample period was affected by the stimulus load . Adding a second and third item to the ipsilateral stimulus array reduced the amount of color information encoded by NCL neurons that carried over into the memory delay . Furthermore , neuronal activity in trials in which the birds made an incorrect response showed only weak encoding during the sample phase without information maintenance during the memory delay . This fits studies of human WM that have shown attentive filtering during encoding of stimuli influencing WM capacity  , and neuronal correlates of this have been reported for monkeys as well  . Beyond the domain of sensory signals , attention and WM may be directly linked . Neuronal correlates of WM and attention overlap in PFC neurons , for example , Lebedev et al . , 2004 , found that a substantial amount of PFC neurons encode either an attentional signal , or a memory signal , and some  neurons do both . Indeed , very recently , Panichello and Buschman , 2021 , have reported that at the population level neurons of PFC encode ‘both the selection of items from working memory and attention to sensory inputs’  , rather than just memory content . Adding stimuli in the contralateral hemifield affected neither performance nor information maintained by NCL neurons , whereas additional ipsilateral stimuli strongly reduced both . This fits the influence of attention on WM and hemifield independence , which is consistently accentuated in studies in which attention had to be divided between the two hemifields  . Finally , the DNR computation may explain the responses of the neurons that gained information at load 2 through attentional processes predicted by the ‘normalization model of attention’  . However , when attention is overtly directed to a specific  item within the receptive field of a neuron , the DNR computation shifts its weighting of the normalized response toward the response of the attended item  . This weighted normalization can produce a difference in the neuronal response to both color identities at load 2 , even if the neuronal response was non-informative at load 1 . Thus , an attentive process might have enhanced information in WM at higher loads . However , we do know that the animals participating in this study can use attentional cues to enhance their WM  . The attention cues used by Fongaro and Rose , 2020 , positively affected not only encoding but also the maintenance and retrieval of the information held in WM , comparable to results from monkeys and humans  . We , therefore , want to emphasize that our data is in line with the interpretation that the birds possibly attended a load 2 stimulus array differently than a load 1 stimulus array in order to enhance their performance in trials with higher loads . Our neuronal recordings offer a mechanistic explanation for the behavioral effects , as we found clear evidence of DNR governing the neuronal responses tied to WM capacity that is in accordance with mammalian models of WM capacity  . The loss of information about color identity  can be accounted for by DNR when an item is added to a neuron’s receptive field . As such it is analogous to neurophysiological responses from visual areas  and to the PFC during spatial WM  . The WM model of Bouchacourt and Buschman , 2019 , is based solely on data from monkey electrophysiology , and thus implicitly tied to the layered columns of the neocortex . The results we report here show that the model also fits the neurophysiology of WM in crows . However , the picture is incomplete since important aspects of monkeys’ WM are still not investigated in crows . Oscillations of local field potentials are relevant for how information enters WM and how it is maintained  , and have been tied to normalization and competition between items in WM  . Thus , the oscillatory interplay of the layers and different regions of the mammalian neocortex are important fields of research to further our understanding of WM . This encourages further investigation into the neuronal circuits of WM in birds . There is also ongoing debate about the role of sustained activity during delay periods and how it relates to WM  . We cannot report of any neuron that showed persistent activity comparable to those reported by classical WM studies in PFC  , or in NCL  . This has , for example , been reported to be the case in posterior parietal cortex of mice performing a T-maze task that required WM for cued spatial locations to be maintained  . Therefore , while we cannot , yet , fully equate crow and monkey WM , our results raise two important questions about how WM is implemented on the level of neuronal networks that have implications for our comparative view of crow WM . The first regards the neuronal computations underlying WM . Is there a common canonical computation governing WM , or are there different solutions based on different neuronal architectures ? However , higher-order associative areas involved in WM , like the LPFC in mammals and the NCL in birds , have distinctly different architectures  . Modeling work already suggests that the competing WM capacity models can be accommodated into a unifying framework based on theoretical neuronal information sampling , where stochastic information sampling  can account for item limitations better than fixed information sampling   . The second question regards the tradeoff between WM flexibility and capacity  . Is the WM of a crow as flexible as that of a monkey ? Our results show that the computations by individual neurons that result in WM capacity limitations are virtually the same in crows and monkeys , highlighting a further aspect of WM that is similar between these animal groups  . Ultimately , our results were in line with different modern models of WM that implement DNR to explain capacity  . We do , however , show that mammalian models of WM are in line with WM in birds , which implies that fundamental aspects of WM are shared between these animal groups . Together , all these facets of crow WM capacity suggest that the different intricate neuronal architectures that carry out the computations in monkeys and crows have likely been shaped by convergent evolution – into systems that yield similar cognitive performances . Further investigation into the oscillatory dynamics of WM in the avian brain may elucidate if birds also share the prominent limitation of a tradeoff between flexibility and capacity . We trained the birds to perform a delayed change localization task that had previously been used to test the performance under different WM loads in primates  . This sample phase was followed by a memory delay of 1000 ms after which the stimulus array reappeared with one color exchanged . Trials were classified as error trials if the bird chose a location where no change of colors had appeared . Depending on the analysis we refer to different ‘load conditions’ relative to referential sides of the screen which are either ipsilateral  or contralateral  , each with a possible load between one and three items . Because there were only very few error trials in the load one condition , we performed error trial analysis only for the load 2 and load 3 conditions . The behavioral data were analyzed as described in our previous study  , estimating the WM capacity K for each load by Equation 1 . K=n*p where p is the percentage correct and n is the number of items in WM . Based on a one-way ANOVA of color identity at a given location , we calculated a PEV statistic to measure the effect size of neuronal modulation . ω2=SSeffect-df*MSerrorSStotal+MSerror For each neuron , we determined a ‘favorite location’ , which was defined as the location with the highest cumulative PEV , of the three possible locations on the right half of the screen , that is , opposite to the implanted hemisphere , across four non-overlapping bins during the sample phase  . We ran the permutation to calculate the likelihood of getting an explained variance value bigger than the one calculated from the actual distribution of the data by randomly permuting the color identity labels and calculating the PEV 1000 times . We chose to not correct for the multiple comparisons at this level , as we reasoned that if we were to only include those neurons that had the most information at the individual loads  we would have artificially inflated the amount of information present at each load . We tested the proportions of significant neurons we found for the different trial phases by performing a binomial test , assuming a significance level α = 0 . PX=i=Bp0 , n=nkp0i1-p0n-i Calculating the probability p , of finding X significant neurons , given a total amount of i  neurons , and a probability p0 of 5% finding a significance by chance . This means , we tested if the PEV of a neuron was significant three times with the permutation method described above: once for each of the three load conditions . Subsequently , we created three pooled groups  from all neurons with a significant PEV at each individual load . Neurons of these pooled groups , with a significant PEV during the sample phase were assigned to the ‘sample population’ , and neurons with a significant amount of information during the memory-delay phase were assigned to the ‘delay population’  . Thus , neurons with significant PEV during both the sample and delay phase were included in both subpopulations . We corrected for the unequal amount of correct and error trials when comparing information about color  between the trial conditions , by sub-sampling correct trials with the number of error trials 1000 times for each neuron . The resulting PEV values of correct trials were then averaged for each neuron , this population of averaged PEV values was then statistically tested against the PEV values of error trials  using a dependent t-test . Three conditions were considered:  neuronal response to stimulus A ,  neuronal response to stimulus B , and  neuronal response to the simultaneity of stimuli A and B . As we wanted to relate this to the information about color identity , we selected subsets of the favorite location and the additional two ipsilateral locations . To test how the neurons altered their response when multiple stimuli were presented simultaneously , we calculated the color selectivity index  and the sensory interaction index  of each neuron . SEi was calculated by subtracting the normalized firing rate for the chosen reference color i  at the neuron’s favorite location , from a second color j  at a different location  . As each of the three locations had two possible colors , we calculated eight SE and SI indices per neuron and performed a linear regression for all indices . Neurons with significant information were accordingly identified over the entire sample and delay as one bin , using the permutation test described in the section ‘information about color identity’ . We considered the entire sample and delay phase because we wanted to analyze the population response as a whole , irrespective of highly diverse response profiles of individual neurons . To visualize the different groups of neurons that encoded and maintained information about the color identity during different phases of the trial , we performed a hierarchical clustering analysis in MATLAB on the normalized PEV values of individual neurons throughout the trial . "
"The molecular force of blood-stage infection  is a quantitative surrogate metric for malaria transmission at population level and for exposure at individual level . Relationships between molFOB , parasite prevalence and clinical incidence were assessed in a treatment-to-reinfection cohort , where P . vivax  hypnozoites were eliminated in half the children by primaquine  . falciparum  and Pv blood-stage infections/year  resulting in comparable spatial and temporal patterns in incidence and prevalence of infections . Including relapses , Pv-molFOB increased >3 fold  showing greater heterogeneity at individual  and village levels . Pf- and Pv-molFOB were strongly associated with clinical episode risk . Yearly Pf clinical incidence rate  was higher than for Pv  despite lower Pf-molFOB . These relationships between molFOB , clinical incidence and parasite prevalence reveal a comparable decline in Pf and Pv transmission that is normally hidden by the high burden of Pv relapses . Already before this decline in malaria prevalence , studies in PNG had reported significant heterogeneity in malaria transmission attributed to local population structure and geographical diversity  . vivax was acquired very rapidly in PNG children , and the incidence of P . vivax clinical episodes peaked in children younger than two years with only very few P . vivax clinical episodes reported in children older than 5 years or adults  . falciparum clinical episodes increased during early childhood  and significant reductions in incidence of clinical episodes or high-density infections were only observed in children aged 5 years and older  . vivax peaked in older age groups , with asymptomatic infections remaining common until adulthood in PNG  . vivax prevalence peaked in younger age groups than P . As malaria transmission declines , it is important to understand the resulting changes in malaria prevalence and clinical incidence patterns , as well as the extent of heterogeneity in transmission within malaria endemic regions so that high-risk areas can be identified and targeted  . A more accurate understanding of the relationship between exposure to new infections and malaria prevalence or clinical incidence is needed to determine how accurately these surrogate markers represent heterogeneity in transmission at local scales . In addition , quantifying clinical incidence in relation to exposure to blood-stage infections can increase our insight into the development and maintenance of immunity to malaria in a setting of sustained malaria control  . The molecular force of blood-stage infection  describes the number of new genotypes observed in consecutive blood samples from cohort participants over time  . molFOB thus provides a longitudinal , individual and quantitative measure for exposure to new blood-stage malaria infections  . falciparum , molFOB is closely linked to the number of infective mosquito bites and therefore is a direct proxy for the actual force of infection  and thus for transmission in endemic settings  . vivax , clones appearing in the blood-stream can either originate directly from an infective mosquito bite or from a relapsing liver hypnozoite  . vivax , molFOB is thus a compound measure of exposure to newly acquired infections from mosquito bites and relapsing blood-stage infections . The usefulness of molFOB as a surrogate marker of individual exposure was validated originally in a cohort of young PNG children 1–4 years of age , in which species-specific molFOB was the most important predictor of clinical incidence for both species  . vivax molFOB  did not change with age , the incidence of P . vivax clinical episodes decreased significantly with age , with a faster rate of decrease in children with high Pv-molFOB  . falciparum molFOB  in that cohort was lower compared to Pv-molFOB and the incidence of P . falciparum clinical episodes increased in parallel with an increasing Pf-molFOB in children 1–3 years , reaching a plateau thereafter  . vivax is acquired more rapidly in children with higher cumulative exposure , that  this developing immunity led to proportionally fewer clinical P . vivax episodes in older children despite similar exposure to new P . vivax blood-stage infections , and that  higher exposure to P . vivax blood-stage infections , compared to P . The major challenge to these cross-species comparisons lies within the intrinsic differences of Pf- and Pv-molFOB: whereas Pf-molFOB is a direct marker of mosquito-borne transmission , Pv-molFOB is a composite measure reflecting both newly acquired infections and those caused by relapses of previously acquired infections . In this study , we extend the analysis of molFOB’s relationship with incidence of clinical malaria episodes to older PNG children and a lower transmission scenario . In addition , given the unique study design that randomized blood-stage only or blood- plus liver-stage treatment at enrolment  , we are now , for the first time , able to compare the incidence of newly acquired P . falciparum infections with both the incidence of newly acquired P . vivax infections and relapsing P . vivax infections . vivax , directly exploring the role of exposure to multiple Plasmodium species in the development of clinical immunity to P . vivax malaria . We quantify in detail the extent of heterogeneity in molFOB on a small geographical scale and relate this to heterogeneity in clinical episode incidence to investigate effects of small-scale variation in malaria transmission on local malaria epidemiology . By combining in-depth molecular parasitological data with demographic and clinical data , this study thus provides detailed insights into the changing epidemiology of malaria in PNG in response to intense malaria control efforts . Demographic parameters of the 466 children that completed the full course of randomized treatment with PQ/CQ/AL  or placebo/CQ/AL  , and were thereafter closely followed for 8 months , were comparable between the six villages  . vivax was the most common infection at enrolment with 48% of children positive by quantitative PCR  , followed by P . The multiplicity of infection  , that is , the number of parasite genotypes per infection , also varied between villages for both species  and children from Bolumita carried more multi-clone infections with P . falciparum than children in other villages  . falciparum parasite density was almost two- to six-fold higher in Bolumita  than in other villages  . vivax hypnozoites experienced similar numbers of new blood-stage infections with P . Pf-molFOB in the placebo arm was comparable to the PQ arm  , whereas due to the hypnozoite reservoir Pv-molFOB was more than three times higher in the placebo arm compared to the PQ arm  . Pv-molFOB in the placebo arm showed a pronounced peak at months 2–3 of follow-up , which likely represents a wave of fast-relapsing hypnozoites in children who did not receive PQ  . vivax prevalence in the PQ arm was comparable to P . vivax prevalence increased more rapidly in the placebo arm until month 3 of follow-up and dropped thereafter , similar to patterns in Pv-molFOB in the same arm . vivax prevalence by qPCR in the placebo arm was 25%  , and therefore more than two-fold higher than in the PQ arm  . vivax prevalence in the placebo arm was 2–3 fold higher compared to the PQ arm , suggesting that at least 50% of the overall P . vivax prevalence in this cohort can be attributed to the contribution of relapses . vivax prevalence in the placebo arm was 2–3 fold higher compared to P . Assuming equal transmission from mosquitoes for both species , which was corroborated by a comparable Pf-molFOB and Pv-molFOB in the PQ arm , P . After adjusting for the effect of PQ treatment  , village of residence and infection status by qPCR at enrolment were the main predictors for the risk of recurrent Plasmodium spp . vivax , a mixed infection at enrolment as measured by qPCR was further associated with up to a two-fold increased risk of recurrent infection  , supporting the idea that focal transmission within villages leads to the presence of high-risk and low-risk individuals . malariae , the infection status at enrolment was a stronger predictor of risk of recurrent infection than village of residence . vivax as measured by light microscopy  were similar to those observed for re-infection as measured by qPCR . vivax blood-stage clones detected during follow-up , that is molFOB , was highly variable between individual children and ranged from 0 to 18 new clones/year for P . vivax in the placebo or PQ arm , respectively  . Mean Pf- and Pv-molFOB varied significantly between villages and were higher in Bolumita  than in the other villages  . vivax infections were strongly associated with new P . falciparum infections per sampling interval and vice versa , suggesting concurrent exposure to the two species  . LLIN use , although strongly associated with lower Pf- and Pv-molFOB in univariate analyses  , remained significantly associated in multivariable models only for P . vivax in the placebo arm , where sleeping under a LLIN in the night previous to enrolment was associated with a 38%  reduction in Pv-molFOB  . Each additional year of age was associated with a 14%  reduction Pv-molFOB per sampling interval in the PQ arm  , while no age effect was observed in the placebo arm or for P . Hb level at enrolment was negatively associated with Pf- and Pv-molFOB  , suggesting anaemia in individuals continuously exposed to blood-stage infections . A total of 98 clinical malaria episodes , here defined as fever plus presence of LM-detectable parasites , were observed during the study period . falciparum was the most common cause of clinical malaria episodes  , despite lower incidence of new P . Including clinical episodes with mixed infection as determined by LM in the estimates for both species , clinical incidence rate  was 0 . vivax episodes/year . vivax clinical episodes . Of these clinical episodes with new blood-stage clones , 96%  and 83%  carried only the new but no persistent P . vivax clinical episodes occurred mainly in the placebo arm shortly after directly observed treatment   , the time of peak Pv-molFOB due to relapsing hypnozoites  . On an individual level , Pv-molFOB was positively associated with the risk of clinical episodes and each additional blood-stage P . vivax clone increased the risk of experiencing a P . vivax clinical episode slightly  . vivax clinical episode risk were observed between villages after adjusting for individual molFOB . vivax clinical episode decreased significantly with age  . vivax densities in older children . falciparum clinical episodes during follow-up were more complex . falciparum clinical episode risk remained significant even after adjusting for individual exposure . This effect was mainly apparent in Numangu , where children were at three- to six-fold higher risk for clinical episodes than children in other villages  . Overall , Pv-molFOB was positively associated with the risk of clinical episodes and each additional P . falciparum clinical episodes  ; however , relative to the number of new blood-stage clones , P . falciparum clinical episodes were less frequent in highly exposed children compared to low-exposed children  . One clinical episode per three new blood-stage clones was detected in the least exposed children  , but only one clinical episode per 15 blood-stage clones in the highest exposed children  . falciparum clinical episodes . falciparum clinical episodes  . falciparum clinical episodes in children that had received PQ treatment for clearance of P . vivax infections against P . falciparum clinical episodes . falciparum clinical episode by 65%   . vivax infections compared to P . falciparum single infections , indicative of suppression of one of the species in mixed infections . In the present study , we describe striking heterogeneity in malaria transmission not only between closely neighboring communities in Maprik district , PNG , but also substantial differences in exposure between individual children from the same village . On village level this heterogeneity is apparent both when using traditional markers such as prevalence of infection , as well as when using the novel `reference standard` marker of individual exposure molFOB . The increased resolution provided by molFOB further allows quantifying heterogeneity in exposure to new blood-stage infections between individual children . Extending an earlier study in a neighboring area in which younger children had been enrolled , and that had identified molFOB as the most important predictor of malaria clinical episodes  , we confirmed that molFOB remains significantly associated with the risk for clinical episodes , but other factors such as age  , or a mixed Pf/Pv infection and village factors not captured by any of the other parameters assessed  have a stronger effect on the risk for clinical malaria  . falciparum blood-stage infections are a direct outcome of mosquito-to-human transmission , infection parameters assessed in the human blood closely reflect P . vivax blood-stage infections  , thus complicating the assessment of mosquito-to-human P . vivax transmission via infection parameters measured in the human blood . vivax infections due to mosquito-to-human transmission  and compare it to the total burden of P . vivax infections . vivax infection acquired through renewed exposure to infected mosquito bites . vivax infection prevalence and 4-times higher incidence  compared to P . vivax transmission using non-entomological molecular parameters thus indicates that the observed differences in epidemiology between the two species are largely due to the high burden of relapsing P . vivax blood-stage infections  . vivax infection and disease in order to inform strategies for achieving a sustained reduction of the P . falciparum in PQ and placebo-treated children we further elucidate the contribution of relapses to P . vivax prevalence and clinical incidence , which are the most commonly used parameters for planning and monitoring of malaria control strategies . vivax prevalence in this cohort , which is lower than what was previously estimated as the contribution of relapses towards Pv-molFOB by comparison of treatment arms  . vivax multiple clone infections that will accumulate more rapidly in the placebo-arm , where additional parasite clones from relapses and/or new infections may overlap with without a corresponding change in overall prevalence . While we previously described a sustained effect of PQ treatment with significant reductions in Pv-molFOB observed up to eight months post treatment  , here , we describe temporal variation in relapse rate with a rapid and wave-like recurrence of P . vivax in children from the placebo arm , who had retained their hypnozoites  . The concurrent , modest peaks in Pf-molFOB and Pv-molFOB in the PQ arm represent seasonal variation in transmission , which is highest in December and January in the study area  ; corresponding to weeks 8–14 of follow-up ) . vivax prevalence  , suggests that the incidence of relapse infections in the blood was not constant during follow-up . vivax infections are often observed following treatment of P . falciparum malaria  , and it can thus been hypothesized that the frequency of relapses may be temporarily increased after blood-stage antimalarial treatment  . vivax relapses directly , or indirectly by allowing more hypnozoites to establish blood-stage infections in parasite-free hosts . vivax infections from hypnozoites relapsing shortly after baseline treatment  may be suppressed to sub-detectable densities until complete waning of drug levels , resulting in simultaneous proliferation and detection of many new blood-stage clones within the first weeks after treatment  . vivax blood-stage infections and their association with potential triggers such as treatment or febrile illness will be required to determine the existence and importance of proposed relapse-triggers . Malaria transmission showed high micro-spatial heterogeneity with more than 10-fold differences in Pf- and Pv-molFOB  between villages despite an overall high LLIN use by the study participants  . vivax molFOB and prevalence were highest , had a modestly lower LLIN use  compared to children from other villages  . Assessing the incidence of new infections from consecutive blood samples using molecular methods  , is complicated by fluctuating densities of clonal parasitemia that may temporarily fall below the limit of detection of the genotyping PCR , leading to imperfect detectability of clones  . vivax , generally low parasite densities aggravate the problem of imperfect detectability , and dis- and re-appearance of clones may be a result of imperfect detectability or relapsing hypnozoites . vivax clinical episodes than P . falciparum clinical episodes were detected despite a higher incidence of P . vivax blood-stage infections , which is consistent with earlier studies in children of similar age  . vivax episodes in our cohort , at 0 . vivax clinical episodes/year observed in an earlier observational cohort of younger children aged 1–4 years from the same area  . The 3-fold difference in Pv-molFOB between the two cohorts seems modest when compared to the 15-fold difference in the incidence of clinical Pv episodes  . vivax clinical illness in 5–10 years old children of this study is more likely explained by an advanced state of immunity to P . vivax compared to the younger children of the earlier cohort than the drop in P . vivax clinical episodes , Pv-molFOB and P . Like in the previous cohort of younger children from neighboring villages  the incidence clinical P . vivax clinical episodes dropped significantly with age . Unlike in the previous cohort of younger children  , in this cohort we additionally observed a drop in Pv-molFOB as well as P . vivax acquired during years of past exposure in the children of this study , which is still ongoing after the age of five . vivax clinical episode incidence , no age-dependent decrease in the incidence of clinical episodes was observed for P . In a previous cohort study conducted in 2004 in 5–14 year old children in an area from PNG with substantially higher transmission levels  , the risk of moderate- to high-density P . falciparum in children of this earlier cohort was not only significantly further advanced compared to children of this cohort , but in addition , transmission was more homogeneous in the area of that study . Mathematical modeling suggests that at heterogeneous transmission , changes of parasite prevalence and clinical episode incidence with age are less pronounced compared to settings with homogeneous transmission  . falciparum in this cohort , when children were stratified into groups ranging from low to high exposure we found that the proportion of P . falciparum clinical episodes relative to new infections decreased with increasing exposure . This could either reflect the development of clinical immunity in highly exposed children , or premunition , a proposed mechanism by which established infections help to control superinfections by immunological cross-protection  . Instead , combining age and molFOB to estimate cumulative life-time exposure may provide a more accurate surrogate measure of the extent of acquired clinical immunity . falciparum transmission declining in PNG due to successful malaria control strategies  , it is conceivable that immunity against P . This delay in immune acquisition is however more than compensated by the overall much lower incidence of clinical malaria clinical episodes: in cohort studies in children younger than 4 years from Maprik district , clinical P . falciparum infections in our study were concentrated in the same children and villages  , likely due to overlapping focal transmission for P . vivax and thus potentially high co-infection rates in mosquitoes . falciparum clinical episodes after PQ radical cure  , we found indications for an increased risk of P . vivax hypnozoites using PQ . vivax infection may provide protection against P . falciparum clinical episodes by limiting P . However , the comparably small number of clinical episodes in this and the earlier contrasting study does not allow an in-depth analysis of causal relationships and therefore does not allow firm conclusions on the potential effects and mechanisms of cross-species interactions in mixed infections . In conclusion , this study provides detailed insight into the changing epidemiology of malaria in PNG children under sustained malaria control , by using molFOB as a powerful measure to quantitatively investigate patterns of new mosquito-derived P . vivax infections versus those for P . vivax relapsing infections , as well as spatial and age trends in exposure to these infections . vivax infections persisted in our study area despite very high use of LLINs . vivax infections indicate that sustained use of LLINs does result in a comparable reduction in transmission of both species . vivax infections observed in our data is thus directly linked to its ability to cause relapsing infections , highlighting the crucial role of hypnozoites for P . vivax mosquito-based transmission against that of P . falciparum and serve to calibrate other standard malaria indicators such as parasite prevalence or incidence of clinical episodes and to ultimately inform new approaches to surveillance and response systems . Symptomatic children were tested for malaria infection with rapid diagnostic test  , and only RDT and or LM-confirmed Plasmodium infections of any density were treated with a 3 day course of AL . vivax qPCRs , individual parasite clones were distinguished by genotyping the length-polymorphic Pf-msp2 or Pv-msp1F3 marker genes using capillary electrophoresis for highly precise fragment sizing  . molFOB was calculated from the number of new parasite clones detected per child or per sampling interval in the peripheral blood , divided by the individual time at risk or length of the interval . Children were considered at risk for clinical malaria clinical episodes until the end of the study or until they were censored  . For clinical endpoints , time-at-risk  was not further adjusted for interim missed follow-up visits because the intense active and passive case detection presumably led to detection of all malaria clinical episodes . falciparum clinical episodes . For statistical analysis , a malaria clinical episode was defined as fever  plus the presence of LM-detectable parasites , irrespective of RDT result or antimalarial treatment during the field visit . falciparum clinical episode per interval . When modelling molFOB  and the odds of clinical episodes  using GEEs , molFOB was calculated for each follow-up interval and used as predictor . In Cox models investigating the risk of clinical episodes  , molFOB was calculated based on the new infections up to the time of failure and used as predictor . In exploratory preliminary analyses we tested for a wide variety of interactions between covariates including interactions between all combinations of molFOB , enrolment infection status , age , village and bednet-usage . Input variables for the spatial models were  molFOB  using the model presented in Table 4  for Pf and Supplementary file 4 for Pv  , resulting in Figure 3 Panels A and B;  relative risk of clinical episodes as predicted by the model shown in Table 5 , resulting in Panels C and D of Figure 3 . "
"Cytokinesis in eukaryotic cells is often accompanied by actomyosin cortical flow . Over 30 years ago , Borisy and White proposed that cortical flow converging upon the cell equator compresses the actomyosin network to mechanically align actin filaments . However , actin filaments also align via search-and-capture , and to what extent compression by flow or active alignment drive furrow formation remains unclear . Here , we quantify the dynamical organization of actin filaments at the onset of ring assembly in the C . elegans zygote , and provide a framework for determining emergent actomyosin material parameters by the use of active nematic gel theory . We characterize flow-alignment coupling , and verify at a quantitative level that compression by flow drives ring formation . Finally , we find that active alignment enhances but is not required for ring formation . Our work characterizes the physical mechanisms of actomyosin ring formation and highlights the role of flow as a central organizer of actomyosin network architecture . Cytokinesis begins in late anaphase , triggered by regulatory pathways with feedback from the mitotic spindle that ensure appropriate positioning of the molecular machinery  . As a consequence , the small regulatory GTPase RhoA  and the molecular motor myosin  are enriched in an equatorial band  . Myosin can directly organize the actin network  , and if myosin-based active alignment  or flow-based compression as proposed by White and Borisy  drive furrow formation and cytokinesis in eukaryotes remains unclear  . elegans which forms two constricting ingressions , first a pseudocleavage furrow during polarity establishment , and then a cytokinetic furrow during cytokinesis   . Notably , the pseudocleavage furrow is linked to cortical flow  and lacks regulatory control from the mitotic spindle  . We first characterized the actomyosin cortical network during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . For this , we generated a Lifeact::mKate2 fluorescent line of C . elegans by coupling the Lifeact peptide to the far-red fluorophore mKate2 that was codon optimized for C . This allows us to quantify cortical actin filament orientation in space and time , as well as cortical flow velocity fields by Particle Image Velocimetry   . We find that actin filaments change from a randomly oriented and isotropic gel before cortical flows initiate , into a more circumferentially aligned organization at the future site of furrow ingression during both pseudocleavage and cytokinesis  . We studied how pseudocleavage and cytokinesis differ in the spatial distribution of molecular regulation and contractility within the equatorial region  . Non-muscle myosin II  is the essential molecular motor that drives both cortical flow and cytokinesis  , whereas the small GTPase RhoA  , when active , is responsible for its local activation . At the onset of cytokinesis , active RhoA and NMY-2 locally increase at the position of the contractile ring , while for pseudocleavage we observed no such increase  . Instead , the equatorial region in pseudocleavage corresponds to a transition zone with a gradual decrease of RhoA and myosin between the anterior region of high and the posterior region of low contractility   . The actin nucleator formin CYK-1 is downstream of RhoA  and follows a similar pattern of localization , and actin bundling via anillin  or plastin also does not appear to be increased in the equatorial region during pseudocleavage  . To conclude , the pseudocleavage furrow ingresses with a circumferential alignment of filaments in the gel , but without a local zone of RhoA activation and the corresponding local increase in myosin and formin density . Since search-and-capture like mechanisms require a localized band of myosin and actin nucleators at the equator to drive myosin-based active alignment  , this suggests that actin filaments in pseudocleavage align via flow-based compression and not via active alignment . Actomyosin gel dynamics in the C . Cortical and medial planes of an embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and endogenous NMY-2::GFP . Left panel , medial plane Lifeact:mKate2 , center , cortical NMY-2::GFP , right panel , cortical Lifeact:mKate2  . elegans expressing Lifeact::mKate2 . Flow and ingression during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . Average active RhoA biosensor intensity profiles along the AP axis  . Actomyosin cortical organization at the onset of pseudocleavage and cytokinesis in embryos expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and NMY-2::GFP . Average actin , myosin and ingression profiles as a function of position along the AP axis  . Details of actin organization during the polarization flow phase . Actomyosin gel dynamics in the C . Single cortical and medial planes from a timelapse sequence of a representative embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and NMY-2::GFP . White arrows indicate the position of pseudocleavage and cytokinesis ingressions . Red arrows indicate flow directions . Close up look at the filaments dynamics near the site of flow initiation . Cortical plane from a timelapse sequence of an embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and NMY-2::GFP . Top: Actin network organization from an embryos expressing Lifeact::mKate2 . Times rescaled to 0 at flow initiation . Red lines schematize filaments maximum vertical alignment positions . White arrows underlie pseudocleavage ingression . Bottom: color-coded representation of the orientation of filaments . Example from an embryo for which the polarization process starts off centered from the physical pole of the embryo due to a mispositioning of the sperm pronucleus  . Alignment direction is observed to follow perpendicularly to the direction of the flow as it reorients along the long axis of the embryo  . Red arrows represent flow direction , red lines filaments main orientation . Cortical flows compress the gel to generate alignment . Filament orientation is quantified by a nematic order parameter; flow fields are obtained from Particle Image Velocimetry  analysis . Gel flow , compression rate , filament orientation and cell ingression fields . Middle row , kymographs of the time evolution of the profiles along the AP axis of flow velocity , compression rate , nematic order parameter and outer ingression distance for pseudocleavage  . Bottom row , cytokinesis  . Orange dashed lines indicate the times where all four fields are stationary . Flow , compression and nematic order were determined from bottom-section and ingression from mid-section views of Lifeact::mKate2 labelled embryos  . Spatial correlation between compression , alignment and ingression  . Table of the temporal delays obtained from the correlation peak value positions using the mean values of the velocity in the 10 μm central region  . Example of the filaments alignment quantification  and the flow velocity field  , as well as nematic order parameters conventions . Time evolution of flow  and compression rate  as well as ingression  measured at a fixed position along the AP axis  . Bottom , fit using the error function  of the time evolution of the velocity from a single embryo  used to determine the reference time point  . Time evolution of the mean velocity and compression rate along the AP axis and nematic order parameter , all taken at fixed positions along the AP axis . In orange is represented the period chosen as stationary flow phase . Mean profiles along the AP axis of the velocities  , compression rate and nematic order parameters  during the stationary flow phase . Plots of the spatiotemporal correlations between the compression , alignment and ingression data sets taken during the pseudocleavage stationary phase  and cytokinesis onset stationary phase  . Nematic order parameter quantification of artificial images with and without directional bias . Example of a simulated isotropic actin meshwork  . Example of a simulated actin meshwork for which the angle of the starting direction is biased toward vertical  . Cumulative distribution function  used and example of an image and its nematic order map  obtained for different values of the starting parameter B that controls the bias of the filaments orientation . Variation of the average nematic order parameter obtained for several synthetic meshworks while increasing the vertical bias of the filaments orientation . Impact of image quality on the nematic order parameter quantification . An artificial filamentous network is obtained by a random iteration process with controllable parameters in Matlab  . We chose to maintain a vertical bias in the orientation of the filaments in all the following cases  . Red lines indicate the preferential orientation inside a template or orientation vector . A profile of the mean nematic order parameter along the x-axis as well as the angular distribution are shown in all cases . Note that as we do not measure the directionality of filaments thus we obtain values modulo π . Impact of the filament density  on the nematic order parameter quantification . The profile of nematic order is to first order independent of network density . High signal to noise ratio leads to higher values of the nematic order parameter , low signal to noise ratio leads to a poor detection of the direction of the filaments and artificially small values of the nematic order parameter . Comparison of different actin labeling strains and actin-binding protein localization . Average AP profiles of flow velocity  and nematic order parameter  at the time of stationary flow during pseudocleavage of respectively 22 embryos expressing Lifeact:GFP , NMY:RFP , 9 embryos expressing Lifeact:RFP , NMY-2:GFP and 16 embryos expressing Lifeact:mKate2 , NMY-2:GFP . Overlaid in red is the velocity profile of worms expressing only labeled NMY-2  . Images of NMY-2:GFP in the early zygote . Left strain without Lifeact , right strain expressing Lifeact:mKate2 . Right panel , the average radial autocorrelation coefficient of the myosin intensity over a minute in early embryos gives an average myosin foci size . Localization of the actin bundling protein plastin during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . Plastin localizes in dense bundles of actin filaments and is particularly abundant in the cytokenetic ring and could act to stabilize actin bundles in these regions . Localization of the actin nucleating agent formin during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . CYK-1 is present throughout the cell cortex during pseudocleavage , with higher densities in foci regions . It is recruited to the cell equator during cytokinetic ring formation and ingression . Cortical dynamics at flow initiation . Left panel , cortical NMY-2::GFP , center cortical Lifeact:mKate2 and a zoom is shown in the right panel  . 013 We next sought to test if flow-based compression drives actin filament alignment . To this end , we developed tools for the spatiotemporal quantification of compression by flow , of filament orientation , and of cortex ingression distance within the gel both at the onset of pseudocleavage and cytokinesis  . We find that the flow compression rate along the antero-posterior direction  , given by the spatial gradient of the velocity field −∂xv  , increases with time during the very early stages of pseudocleavage . The compression rate peaks in the central region of the embryo , with a maximum of ~0 . Notably , this peak is stable for several minutes until pseudocleavage flows cease entirely  . For cytokinesis , we find that the early flow also proceeds in a unidirectional manner from the posterior toward the anterior  . Similar to pseudocleavage , the compression rate increases with time over the very early stages of cytokinesis , with the compression profile peaking at the center of the embryo with a maximum rate of ~0 . We characterized the average actin filaments orientation by a nematic order tensor Q  . We find that vertical  alignment appears coincidental in space and time with the local increase of the compression rate  . Notably , changing the direction of flow also changes the direction of alignment: off-site sperm entry leads to flows along the short axis of the egg  and actin filaments still align in the direction determined by compression  . Finally , the ingressing furrow forms in the region where filaments are aligned  . Our quantifications reveal remarkable similarities between the compression rate fields , the pattern of alignment , and the ingression distance between pseudocleavage and cytokinesis  , suggesting common mechanisms . To conclude , actin filament alignment arises at locations of significant compression by flow . Cortical dynamics of an embryo in which flow was initiated at the side  and far from the posterior pole of the embryo . Actin filament alignment follows flow and compression , thus transitions from a horizontal to a vertical direction  . 014 If flow-based compression aligns actin filaments for forming an ingression , we would expect compression to precede or to be concomitant with alignment and ingression . The 1D crosscorrelations between compression , filament alignment and ingression distance , calculated for the time that flows are essentially stationary  , show that for pseudocleavage both compression rate and alignment peak at about the same location , while the ingression field peaks ~ 3 µm further to the anterior  . The situation is similar at cytokinesis , except that the compression field peaks furthest to the posterior . We next translated the characteristic distances between peaks in stationary flow to temporal delays between events  . We find that for pseudocleavage , filament alignment is essentially concomitant with compression , while for cytokinesis compression precedes alignment by 0 . Furthermore , ingression arises approximately 0 . 5 min after compression for pseudocleavage and 0 . 9 min after compression for cytokinesis . To conclude , filament alignment appears to rapidly follow compression while ingression arises with a delay . We next sought to provide a physical explanation for flow-based alignment  . The cell cortex in this and other systems can be thought of as a gel that forms a thin layer underneath the plasma membrane . Recent advances in physical theory show that this gel is active and generates the forces that drive cell shape changes  . We describe the actin cortical layer as a thin film of a nematic gel under shear and compression by flow  . In the x-direction , the time evolution of the local nematic order Q depends on advection  , compression in gel flow  , a process of relaxation to an isotropic configuration possibly via turnover  , and a tendency of filaments to align with each other over space   ∂tQ=−v∂xQ−β2∂xv−1τQ+ℓ2τ∂x2Q . Theory predicts an alignment peak . Schematic representation of flow-based alignment . Average AP profiles of gel flow  , compression rates  and nematic order parameter  at the time of stationary flow  during pseudocleavage  and cytokinesis onset  . Dashed red line indicates the respective best-fit theory predictions for the nematic order parameter  . Illustration of the cortical tension related to the ingression distance . Outer ingression profiles at the onset of pseudocleavage  and cytokinesis  . The theoretical profiles  are determined by simultaneous fitting of both the pseudocleavage and cytokinesis datasets with a single fit parameter  using the myosin density , flow velocity and nematic order parameter fields . Influence of the gel material parameters for the nematic order parameter . Nematic order parameter profiles obtained when varying independently each of the fitting parameters τ , βτ , ℓ away from their the best fit values obtained for cytokinesis . For each set of parameters τ , βτ , ℓ , a fit is performed for the fitting parameters C1 and C2 only  . Nematic order parameter profiles obtained when varying the fitting parameter τ while keeping βτ , ℓ fixed and equal to their best-fit values . For each value of τ , a fit is performed for the fitting parameters C1 and C2 only . Contribution of active alignment to the nematic order parameter profile . Average AP profiles of gel flow  , compression rates  , nematic order parameter  and myosin fluorescence  at the time of stationary flow during pseudocleavage  and cytokinesis onset  . Dashed red lines indicate the best-fit theory predictions for the nematic order parameter in absence of active alignment , dashed black lines are the fits obtained while including the myosin-based active alignment , with λ′τ=4 . 54 for pseudocleavage and λ′τ=0 . 45 for cytokinesis . Note that myosin-based active alignment  is insignificant for pseudocleavage and is low for cytokinesis compared to compression-based alignment  . The theoretical alignment profile  overlays the experimental data points  . Ingression through anisotropic stress generation in the aligned gel . Top , a representative embryo is used to visualize the time course of ingression . The pseudocleavage and cytokinesis ingressions are visible . Yellow arrow indicates the inner ingression distance during polarizing flow phase , magenta dashed line indicates the ingressing membrane and blue arrow indicates the outer ingression . Top , illustration of the cortical tension during ingression . Bottom , outer ingression profiles  averaged over the time periods indicated by the thin horizontal white lines in  during pseudocleavage  and cytokinesis  . The theoretical profiles  are determined by simultaneous fitting of both the pseudocleavage and cytokinesis datasets with a single fit parameter  using the myosin density  , flow velocity  and nematic order parameter  fields . Comparison of the theoretically obtained profile of the outer ingression without the anisotropic stress induced by nematic order  during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis phases with the experimental data  . Shape and ingression distance quantification . Left column , plots of the cell shape  for pseudocleavage  and cytokinesis  . Right column , ingression distance for several embryos and mean value  during the stationary phase of pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . 019 The characteristic time for relaxation to an isotropic state via turnover is determined by τ , while β is a dimensionless coefficient that describes how local compression −∂xv impacts nematic ordering . Finally , ℓ is a length scale that determines the distance over which actin filaments tend to point in the same direction  . In our experiments , we observe a stationary phase  , and the profile of nematic order Q at steady-state is given by  Q=−τv∂xQ−β2τ∂xv+ℓ2 ∂x2Q . We next determined the theoretical alignment field from the experimental flow field v and compression field ∂xv . We used nonlinear least-square fitting to evaluate parameter values for which the theoretical alignment profile best matched the experimental one . There are five unknowns  but three spatial fields , hence the fitting procedure is significantly constrained and the best fit parameters are uniquely defined in most cases  . For cytokinesis the calculated alignment profile  best matches the experimentally measured one for β τ =0 . For pseudocleavage , β τ was similar ( 0 . We note that in both cases , we obtain good agreement between the theoretical and experimental alignment field , allowing us to conclude that compressive gel flow can account for alignment . Further , we observe a small τ for pseudocleavage and a larger τ for cytokinesis , which is consistent with the observation that alignment appears concomitant with compression in pseudocleavage but arises with a short delay during cytokinesis  . We speculate that the changes in physical parameters of the actomyosin cortical layer between pseudocleavage and cytokinesis  reflect the fact that the cell forms a strong and more pronounced ring of aligned filaments during cytokinesis . To conclude , our results are consistent with a scenario in which actin filament alignment arises in a disordered network through compression by flow  . Best fit gel material parameters , bootstrapping . 020Pseudocleavage Cytokinesis non RNAi non RNAi τ , min< 0 . 74  nop-1 RNAi nop-1 RNAi τ , minn . 67  ani-1 RNAi ani-1 RNAi τ , min< 0 . 38  mlc-4  RNAi mlc-4  RNAi τ , min< 0 . 58  mlc-4  RNAi mlc-4  RNAi τ , minn . 5  denotes parameters which could not be determined , but could be determined to be below 0 . Best fit gel material parameters , no bootstrapping . 021PseudocleavageCytokinesisnon RNAi non RNAi τ , min< 0 . 69  nop-1 RNAi nop-1 RNAi τ , minn . 79  ani-1 RNAi ani-1 RNAi τ , min< 0 . 08  mlc-4  RNAi mlc-4  RNAi τ , min< 0 . 81  mlc-4  RNAi mlc-4  RNAi τ , minn . 5  denotes parameters which could not be determined , but could be determined to be below 0 . Caption for Videos 1Videos 1 to 7 Until now , we have not considered processes of myosin-based active alignment in our theory  . This simplification is probably appropriate for pseudocleavage , but this is less clear for cytokinesis given that there is a clear band of myosin enrichment at the equator when the cell divides  . We next consider active alignment by myosin , and describe the cortical layer as a thin film of an active nematic gel . For stationary flows the profile of nematic order Q is now given by  Q=−τv∂xQ−β2τ∂xv+ℓ2 ∂x2Q+λQ , where the right-most term describes active alignment by myosin molecular motors , with λ an alignment parameter dependent on the local myosin concentration . In our modified fitting procedure , we now evaluate the respective contributions of myosin-based active and flow-based passive alignment to the stationary Q profile , under the assumption that λ is proportional to local myosin concentration . We find that considering active alignment does not increase the overall agreement between calculated and measured alignment profiles for both pseudocleavage and cytokinesis  . Notably , the contribution of active alignment to pseudocleavage is insignificant , while active alignment contributes to enhancing compression-induced alignment during cytokinesis  , albeit to a small degree . We conclude that compression by flow and not myosin-based active alignment is the driving force of ring formation in both pseudocleavage and cytokinesis . A key prediction from our model is that reducing flow speeds and compression rates should give rise to less filament alignment and a possible inhibition of pseudocleavage furrow formation . To test this prediction , we performed weak-perturbation RNAi experiments  of the regulatory myosin light chain of non-muscle myosin ( mlc-4   to mildly reduce actomyosin flow speeds without significant changes in overall actomyosin organization  . Short feeding times  lead to a small reduction in gel flow and compression rates  , but actin filaments still aligned in the central region and the pseudocleavage furrow still formed and ingressed . Consistent with our hypothesis , longer feeding times  lead to a complete abolishment of cortical flow and a loss of both actin alignment and pseudocleavage furrow  . Actomyosin foci are not required for compression-based alignment since anillin- depleted embryos ( ani-1  , 24 hr ) still show significant alignment under compression in the absence of these dense foci   . Reduced flow speeds and compression rates can also account for the absence of alignment and pseudocleavage in nop-1  embryos , in which RhoA-dependent processes are affected and pseudocleavage formation abrogated   . Overall , these experiments lead us to conclude that reducing gel flow and compression rates affects alignment in a manner that is consistent with Equation 2 . Finally , a complete loss of flow and compression abolishes pseudocleavage entirely  . Taken together , our results suggest that the pseudocleavage furrow arises as a by-product of compressive flows , mechanically aligning actin filaments into a ring even in the absence of localized RhoA activation . Flows and compression are required to generate alignment . Average AP profiles of gel flow  , compression rates  and nematic order parameter  at the time of stationary flow during pseudocleavage onset for mlc-4 5–7 hr and 7–9 hr , nop-1 and ani-1 RNAi . Dashed red line indicate the respective best-fit theory predictions for the nematic order parameter  . For ani-1 and mlc-4  , τ is small and is determined to be smaller than 0 . For nop-1 and mlc-4  , theory profiles were generated using the parameters obtained for the unperturbed non-RNAi pseudocleavage , since insufficient compression rates did not constrain the physical parameters . Actin organization and myosin distribution under nop-1  , ani-1  and mlc-4  . Inserts with fluorescence intensity profiles during pseudocleavage and cytokinesis onset are overlaid next to the corresponding images  . Note that ANI-1 depleted embryos had more elongated and thin anterior halves , with no localized dense actin ring like structure and no clear and stable central furrow with membrane overlapping . Also note that the asymmetry in the distribution of actin  during cytokinesis was reduced for both nop-1 and long mlc-4  . Flows , compression and alignment at cytokinesis onset . Results of nop-1  , ani-1  and mlc-4  . Average AP profiles of gel flow  , compression rates  and nematic order parameter  at the time of stationary flow during cytokinesis onset . Dashed red line indicates the respective best-fit theory predictions for the nematic order parameter  . For cytokinesis mlc-4  tau is small and is determined to be smaller than 0 . Overlay of the different profiles at pseudocleavage and cytokinesis onset , non-RNAi is shown in blue and compression rates in dashed lines . Note that the level of outer ingression was similar to the non-RNAi case for ani-1  pseudocleavage , but with improper location and no membrane overlapping , thus no full pseudocleavage furrowing was obtained but a remaining initial anterior ingression was achieved in the presence of some filaments alignment . 024 In this context we wondered if the cortex is specifically modified to favor ring formation in cytokinesis . We used our fitting procedure to determine the parameters that characterize emergent material properties of the cortex under mlc-4  . Notably , we observe that 7–9 hr of mlc-4  leads to a reduction of the alignment relaxation time scale τ during cytokinesis . The value obtained is similar to the alignment relaxation time scale during pseudocleavage under non-RNAi conditions  , leading us to speculate that an increase in myosin activity via Rho signaling is responsible for the observed increase of the characteristic relaxation time τ in cytokinesis . Importantly , increasing τ allows the cell to form a pronounced ring of aligned filaments by compressive cortical flow during cytokinesis , as predicted by theory  . Finally , we sought to find support from theory that aligned filaments in the equatorial region drive anisotropic stress generation  to form an ingression  . By use of a theory that connects anisotropic active stress generation in the active nematic gel to changes in cell shape  we show that we cannot appropriately account for the observed ingression profiles unless we consider anisotropic active stress generation in an aligned gel  . This suggests that anisotropic active stress generation in a network of aligned actin filaments is important for forming an ingression . To conclude , we find that compression by flow drives actomyosin ring formation in both pseudocleavage and cytokinesis , as originally proposed by White and Borisy   . For this , we provide a general framework for determining emergent material parameters of the actomyosin gel . This characterizes flow-alignment coupling and allows for capturing essential aspects of the mechanics of furrow generation . Our analysis of the pseudocleavage ingression in C . elegans demonstrates that constricting rings can form in the absence of equatorial RhoA activation . This reveals that cortical flow functions as a central organizer of network architecture , mechanically aligning filaments to form a constricting furrow in the equatorial region without a localized increase of actin nucleation  and myosin contractility  . Finally , it will be interesting to investigate if a cortex that is aligned by compressive flow favors the recruitment of specific actin binding proteins such as bundling or motor proteins  , comprising an interesting mechanism of positive feedback for stabilizing and enhancing the ring during cytokinesis . Our work highlights that determining emergent material properties of actomyosin is important for understanding cytokinesis , and a challenge for the future is to link emergent material properties at the larger scale with molecular mechanisms  . Existing reagents did not allow for detailed and long-term imaging of actin filaments in embryos , which is critical for reliably quantifying their orientation . Hence , we generated a new Lifeact transgenetic line with enhanced actin filament labeling  . elegans far-red fluorophore , mKate2 kindly shared by Henrik Bringman   was added to the actin probe with a linker  and cloned into MOSCI vector containing unc119 rescue gene  under the control of the mex-5 promoter . In this line , we observed within the cortical plane bright actin filament labeling with a high signal-to-noise ratio and little photobleaching . Importantly , overall cortical organization and flow dynamics appeared to not be affected by this reagent , foci lifetime , spacing , cortical flow velocities were similar to previous measurement with other fluorescent lines . A dual colored transgenic line was obtained in order to image simultaneously actin and myosin dynamics by crossing Lifeact::mKate2 strain with LP133 ( NMY-2::GFP obtained by CRISPR  , SWG007 ) . It lacks the N-terminal myosin and actin-binding domains but retains its RhoA-binding domain . The strains expressing CYK-1:GFP  and PLST-1:GFP  were obtained by the insertion of a GFP tag at the endogenous locus in their C-terminal region using CRISPR according to Dickinson et al  . For imaging , one-cell embryos were mounted on 2% agar pads , thereby slightly compressed to increase the cortical surface visible in a confocal plane . We assume the shape to be rotationally symmetrical to the longer axis , thus the outline of one medial section of the embryo reflects faithfully cell shape changes and ingression distance . Spatiotemporal correlation functions were calculated for all time points during the stationary period , in the 30 μm central region of the embryo . The plot of the spatial correlation only  is shown in Figure 2c between the compression , alignment and ingression data sets . Peak value positions are obtained by a Gaussian fitting procedure and allow the calculation of positional differences between the different data sets . Because the flow field appears stationary , we expect this distance between peaks of compression , alignment and ingression to arise due to temporal delays between these events in the reference frame co-moving with the cortical flows . We thus translated the characteristic distances between stationary peaks to temporal delays using the average flow velocity in the −10 μm to 0 central region   . Compression drives alignment for furrowing . Schematic illustration of flows , cytoskeletal organization and cell shape changes during pseudocleavage and at the onset of cytokinesis . Actomyosin gel dynamics in the C . Cortical and medial planes of an embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and endogenous NMY-2::GFP . Left panel , medial plane Lifeact:mKate2 , center , cortical NMY-2::GFP , right panel , cortical Lifeact:mKate2  . Actomyosin gel dynamics in the C . elegans zygote after 26 hr ani-1  . Cortical and medial planes of an embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and endogenous NMY-2::GFP . Left panel , medial plane Lifeact:mKate2 , center , cortical NMY-2::GFP , right panel , cortical Lifeact:mKate2  . Actomyosin gel dynamics in the C . elegans zygote after 14 hr mlc-4  . Cortical and medial planes of an embryo expressing both Lifeact::mKate2 and endogenous NMY-2::GFP . Left panel , medial plane Lifeact:mKate2 , center , cortical NMY-2::GFP , right panel , cortical Lifeact:mKate2  . "
"Because few ADs have been described , we tested domains tiling all yeast transcription factors for activation in vivo and identified 150 ADs . By mRNA display , we showed that 73% of ADs bound the Med15 subunit of Mediator , and that binding strength was correlated with activation . AD-Mediator interaction in vitro was unaffected by a large excess of free activator protein , pointing to a dynamic mechanism of interaction . Structural modeling showed that ADs interact with Med15 without shape complementarity  . ADs shared no sequence motifs , but mutagenesis revealed biochemical and structural constraints . Finally , a neural network trained on AD sequences accurately predicted ADs in human proteins and in other yeast proteins , including chromosomal proteins and chromatin remodeling complexes . ADs were discovered as regions that could independently stimulate transcription when ectopically recruited to a gene promoter  . Early experiments showed that ADs were unlike structured domains because progressive truncations showed graded reductions in activity  . Subsequent studies showed that ADs were disordered and had few similarities in their primary sequence  . Instead , ADs were classified based on their enrichment of certain residues , whether acidic , glutamine-rich , or proline-rich . Acidic ADs are the most common and best characterized . Acidic ADs retain activity when transferred between yeast and animals , pointing to a conserved eukaryotic mechanism  . Besides their negative charge , acidic ADs are rich in bulky hydrophobic residues . Because AD sequences are highly diverse and poorly conserved , only a small fraction of all ADs in eukaryotic TFs have likely been annotated . Sequence motifs have been proposed based on analysis of select ADs but have not been used for large-scale prediction  . Direct screening of protein sequences has identified relatively few ADs at low resolution  . ADs stimulate transcription of genes by recruiting coactivator complexes , especially the Mediator complex , which interacts with RNA Polymerase II and regulates its transcription initiation  . Beyond Mediator , TFs have been suggested to recruit other conserved multiprotein complexes , including TFIID , SAGA , and SWI/SNF , that play roles in activation of various genes  . Nuclear magnetic resonance  studies revealed short alpha helices formed by acidic ADs of yeast Gcn4 protein , with hydrophobic faces contacting hydrophobic surfaces of the Med15 subunit of Mediator  . NMR constraints were consistent with multiple possible AD binding poses , suggesting a dynamic ‘fuzzy complex’  . Further consistent with these ideas , solvent exposure of aromatic residues was associated with activation in a screen of Gcn4 AD variants  . Here , we combine quantitative , high-throughput measurements of in vivo activation and in vitro interaction with computational modeling to characterize ADs . We identify 150 ADs in budding yeast and describe their shared sequence attributes . We extend the analysis by training and validating a neural network that predicts new ADs across eukaryotes . Guided by predictions , we design and measure activation of thousands of AD mutants to derive a deeper understanding of the principles underlying activation . Correlating activation with measurements of binding of ADs to Mediator in vitro identifies the key protein interactions driving activation , for which we predict atomic structures using a peptide-docking algorithm . We derive structural features common to AD-Mediator interactions and use them to explain measurements of Mediator recruitment kinetics in vitro . In total , we develop an integrated model for function , sequence determinants , molecular interactions , and kinetic features of TF ADs . We identified ADs across all TFs in budding yeast with the use of a quantitative , uniform , and high-throughput activation assay . Variability due to protein expression , activation duration , and secondary genetic effects was minimized by fusing domains of interest to a three-part artificial TF  that  is tracked by an mCherry tag ,  localizes to the nucleus only upon induction with estrogen , and  binds uniquely through its mouse DBD in the promoter of a chromosomally-integrated GFP reporter gene  . In this assay , three known ADs stimulated GFP expression greater than 100-fold upon estrogen treatment  . We used a pooled screen to measure activation by 7460 protein segments , each 53 amino acids  in length , that tiled all 164 TFs  with a step size of 12–13 aa  . By next-generation sequencing , the distribution of each protein tile across the bins was determined and the mean value was used to calculate activation—namely , the fold increase in GFP relative to background  . GFP distributions of three known ADs in the pooled screen exactly reproduced measurements from individual pure populations  . Our assay exhibited high signal-to-noise: tiles in previously known and newly identified ADs activated nearly 200-fold while 88% of fragments activated less than twofold  . When plotted by protein position , activating tiles clustered into discrete , well-defined ADs  . Using a positional activation score , we identified 150 ADs in 96 TFs  . These ADs overlapped 75% of all previously-reported ADs in TFs  . Furthermore , the 53-aa tile length was not limiting , since our screen successfully identified ADs in over 85% of TFs that activated in a previous one-hybrid screen testing full-length proteins  . While 63 TFs contained just a single AD , 33 TFs had multiple , including up to seven distinct ADs in Adr1  . C-terminal ADs were common—found in nearly half of all AD-containing TFs—and were stronger and shorter on average than other ADs  . Consistent with AD function in their native context , TFs that contained ADs upregulated a higher proportion of downstream genes than TFs without ADs  . Consistent with the diverse functions of TFs beyond transcriptional activation  , 68 TFs did not contain any ADs  . ADs were enriched in negative charge and hydrophobic content , and activation was strongest for fragments that were high in both   . Past experiments have clearly shown the importance of bulky hydrophobic residues but presented conflicting evidence for acidic residues in activation  . To determine the role of negative charge , we took the strongest-activating fragment from each AD and measured its activation with all acidic residues mutated . Except for a single example that activated just as strongly at +7 net charge without its acidic residues  , activation was abolished in all ADs , showing definitively that acidic residues are necessary in budding yeast ADs  . We also noticed that activation of wild-type tiles was more strongly correlated with the number of Asp residues than the number of Glu residues , and hypothesized that Asp promotes activation more strongly than Glu  . Indeed , ADs with all Glu residues mutated to Asp consistently activated as well as or better than ADs with all Asp residues mutated to Glu  . However , AD sequences appeared to share no common motifs upon inspection . The 9aaTAD motif , originally proposed based on yeast ADs  , predicted ADs poorly: only 10% of 9aaTAD-containing tiles activated in our assay , which was not significantly more predictive than scrambled versions of the motif  . A de novo search for motifs using DREME also found none that were shared by more than two ADs  . Evidently , ADs are diverse in sequence and not predictable from simple motifs . We pursued this point by measuring activation of a panel of designed mutants of eight ADs . To produce larger effects , we varied the acidic and hydrophobic content of the ADs by mutating successively larger subsets of acidic or aromatic residues  . It is noteworthy that the Gcn4 AD , a focus of many past studies , uniquely tolerated mutation of up to six acidic residues . Since motifs predicted ADs poorly , we turned to more sophisticated approaches using machine learning . To experimentally disentangle the contributions of aa positioning and aa composition , we measured activation of eight scrambled sequences from each of the eight ADs tested before . Despite their shared abundance of acidic and hydrophobic residues , these mutants spanned a wide range of activation strengths , and some mutants activated stronger than wild-type while others failed to activate entirely  . We therefore trained a deep convolutional neural network  to predict activation based on protein sequence , predicted secondary structure , and predicted disorder  . Our Predictor of Activation Domains using Deep Learning in Eukaryotes , or ‘PADDLE’ , explained 81% of observed variation in TF tiles withheld from training  , markedly better than the aa composition-based predictor . De novo , PADDLE accurately predicted the activation strength of  new ADs within TFs omitted from training  ;  scrambled AD sequences , despite their identical amino acid composition  ; and  232 mutants and 178 orthologs of the Pdr1 AD   . Classic experiments showed that many acidic ADs retained activity even when transferred between yeast and animals  , so we investigated whether PADDLE could identify ADs in human TFs that would activate in human cells . Using PADDLE , we predicted 236 high-strength and 366 moderate-strength ADs , together spanning 462  human TFs  . These predicted ADs overlapped many known ADs of TFs from diverse families , including p53 , NFkB , Myc , Klf4 , Fos , PPARA , SREBF1 , E2F proteins , and the glucocorticoid receptor  . PADDLE also predicted 41 high-strength and 45 moderate-strength ADs from among 419 transcription-regulating viral proteins  . We randomly selected 25 high-strength predicted ADs from human TFs and measured their activation individually using a luciferase reporter in HEK293T cells . While other classes of human ADs , such as glutamine-rich or proline-rich ADs , are not predictable by PADDLE since they are not present in S . To uncover the principles of acidic activation learned by PADDLE , we analyzed predictions on designed mutant sequences and developed hypotheses , which we then experimentally tested in a second library . We noticed from predictions on sequences less than 30 aa that yeast ADs contained short , independently activating regions , which we term core ADs   . As an experimental test , we measured in vivo activation of 13-aa-long fragments tiling ten ADs in 1-aa steps . Predictions proved highly accurate  , and both predictions and experiments identified at least one significantly activating 13-aa cAD within each AD  . Across all yeast TFs , PADDLE predicted that the minimal region for activation could be localized to within a 20-aa cAD in 85% of ADs  . These cADs still shared no motifs  , but instead had an especially high density of acidic and hydrophobic residues , even more so than the full ADs  . Single-aa mutants in these short cADs had a large predicted impact on activation , unlike in the longer 53-aa ADs  , and showed clear trends when grouped by residue identity . Mutating the bulkiest hydrophobic residues led to the greatest decreases in predicted activation , and the three most important were Trp , Phe , and Leu  . Together , these analyses identify the regions and residues across ADs that contribute most to activation . Having identified the core AD regions , we sought to understand the sequence properties that drive their activation . We focused on the 28 strongest 13-aa cADs  , and first experimentally quantified the importance of their aa composition by comparing each cAD with 33 random scrambles of its sequence . Remarkably , only nine cADs  showed activation by the wild-type sequence greater than threefold greater than the average activation by scrambled sequences  . On the other hand , 18 cADs  showed activation by the wild-type sequence within twofold of the scrambled sequence average , indicating that their activation is primarily determined by aa composition and not by a unique positioning of residues . Within the seven central positions of each 13-aa cAD , we individually mutated each non-hydrophobic residue to alanine or proline and asked whether proline inhibited activation relative to alanine  . Proline mutations inhibited activation more than threefold over alanine in nine ADs  , including up to an 11-fold drop in activation in the Tda9 cAD . Interestingly , all three cADs that contained a basic residue  were strongly inhibited by proline , suggesting that a helix is necessary to position their inhibitory positive charge away from the coactivator binding interface . Thus , composition-driven cADs typically do not need to form a helix and likely sample disordered conformations , while cADs that require their wild-type sequence typically also require helical folding , employing a structure-driven mechanism . To understand these two contrasting mechanisms , we studied them in a simplified system of artificial cADs that used only the four most activation-promoting residues . We examined 9-aa sequences  consisting entirely of only two types of amino acids each—Asp and either Leu , Phe , or Trp—so that all possible such sequences  could be systematically assayed  . As expected , activation required a balance of hydrophobic and acidic residues  , so we focused analysis on aa compositions with the strongest median activation: 9mers with five or six hydrophobic residues . Within these , nearly all Phe 9mers and Trp 9mers activated regardless of their sequence  , characteristic of a composition-driven mechanism and consistent with the highly hydrophobic nature of Phe and Trp residues . This motif was strictly required for activation in these 9mers , present in two copies in the three strongest 9mers , found in two wild-type structure-driven cADs  , and previously described in ADs of many nuclear receptors and other TFs  . This motif also suggests an explanation for why helical folding was necessary for cADs with less hydrophobicity: by placing Leu residues along one face of an alpha helix , the motif efficiently forms a hydrophobic binding surface . Despite the importance of hydrophobic residues for activation , PADDLE also predicted that some TFs contained cADs whose activation was inhibited by nearby clusters of hydrophobic residues . Inhibition by hydrophobic residues also explains the weak activation of some scrambled 53-aa ADs  . To systematically quantify inhibition , we measured the effect on activation when the Pdr1 cAD was placed next to a library of 2177 random 20-aa sequences chosen to span a wide range of net charge and hydrophobic content  . Therefore , the local clustering of negative charges near hydrophobic residues renders the Pdr1 cAD resistant to global changes in net charge , suggesting that interactions between opposite charges within the peptide do not fully prevent binding to coactivators . This suggests that inhibitory hydrophobic clusters interact with hydrophobic residues in the cAD , completely preventing their interaction with coactivators . The surprising ability of simple biochemical features to explain a large and diverse set of ADs suggests that these features may also drive interactions with coactivator complexes . To gain a mechanistic understanding of the AD-coactivator contacts that underlie activation , we mapped the interactions of wild-type and mutant ADs with Mediator . We focused on Med15 , the primary subunit of Mediator targeted by many ADs in budding yeast , which contains four tandem activator-binding domains   . To measure binding in high-throughput , we used mRNA display  , expressing our library of TF tiles as a pool of protein fragments covalently tagged with their mRNA sequences , and using this pool in Med15 pull-down experiments  . Finally , the fractional pull-down of each protein fragment was computed by its abundance in the Med15-bound sample relative to input , normalized to total library concentrations measured by qPCR  . Fragments known to bind Med15 enriched up to 17-fold above random sequence controls and 1000-fold higher than in mock pull-downs with beads alone  . Binding to Med15 was widespread among ADs and coincident with activation activity . When plotted by protein position , Med15-binding tiles clustered into 153 discrete domains , the vast majority of which were not previously known to bind Mediator  . ADs and Med15-binding domains overlapped substantially: 73% of ADs bound Med15 , and 71% of Med15-binding domains functioned as ADs  . Moreover , ADs that did not bind Med15 tended to activate weakly  , so it is possible that many bind Med15 at levels below the detection limit of our pull-down assay , which was less sensitive than our activation assay  . Just as with activation , high acidic and hydrophobic content were associated with Med15 binding  . The Gln3 AD that did not require acidic residues also did not bind Med15 substantially  , suggesting that it activates through other mechanisms . To test this relationship further , we measured Med15 binding of the set of AD mutants in which aromatic residues were systematically removed  . In every case , Med15 binding and activation were strongly correlated  , showing that the hydrophobic features that drive activation similarly underlie Med15 binding . Moreover , the ability for binding of a single protein in vitro to quantitatively explain activation in vivo suggests that Mediator recruitment is a key driver for gene activation and determined largely by AD binding to its Med15 subunit . ADs can bind different coactivators , though the extent of such interaction is unknown . Yeast TFIID contains three known AD-binding subunits , Taf4 , Taf5 , and Taf12 , which form a subcomplex with Taf6 and Taf9  . We isolated this TFIID subcomplex and confirmed its interaction with the VP16 AD  . In total , 27 ADs  across 26 TFs bound the TFIID subcomplex  , greatly expanding its repertoire of known interactions  . However , all ADs that bound TFIID also bound Med15 , and despite the identical pull-down conditions , ADs bound more weakly to TFIID than to Med15  . While more TFIID interactions may be discoverable if assay sensitivity can be further optimized , these results suggest that TFIID has lower affinity for most ADs and provide no evidence for its specific targeting as a coactivator . Since TFIID binding by ADs is redundant and less frequent , its role in most TF-directed activation is secondary to that of Mediator . What structural features of Med15 enable its promiscuous yet functional interaction with diverse AD sequences ? In the best studied example , the Gcn4 AD interacts with hydrophobic patches and basic residues on multiple Med15 activator-binding domains  in a large number of binding poses to form a ‘fuzzy’ complex  . We addressed the question by using FlexPepDock , a peptide docking algorithm from the Rosetta suite  , to systematically build structural models of ABD-AD interactions , made computationally tractable by our identification of short cADs . To sample diverse sequences , aa composition , and secondary structure , we modeled interactions of the 28 13-aa cADs described above  with the KIX domain and ABD1 . First , KIX domain residues previously shown by NMR to be important for interacting with the Pdr1 AD were recapitulated by the best-scoring model of this interaction  . However , the flat surface of the KIX domain was ineffective in burying hydrophobic cAD residues , which on average had as much surface area exposed to solvent as area contacting the KIX domain  . For example , the best-scoring Pdr1 AD model used Ile and Leu residues along one helical face to contact the KIX domain , but this left Trp and Tyr residues on the opposite face exposed to solvent  . Nevertheless , hydrophobic residues of most cADs were incompletely buried , with those residues showing greater than 20% of area exposed to solvent in over half of all structures . Thus , despite the central role of hydrophobic AD residues in activation and Med15 binding , hydrophobic shape complementarity is not an important feature of ABD-cAD interactions . To quantify this diversity , we defined the unique binding poses of each ABD-cAD interaction by clustering similar structures based on cAD backbone root mean square distance  , and then counted the number of poses adopted by the 10 best-scoring models . Disordered cADs , lacking helical content , adopted especially many distinct poses; also , poses were frequently sampled only once , suggesting that disordered cADs inhabit an extremely large conformational space that may reduce the entropic cost of binding  . To explore the consequence of fuzzy binding for amino acid sequence constraints , we took Leu , Phe , and Asp residues from models of all cADs and plotted their binding positions on the KIX and ABD1 interfaces  . The diversity of AD sequences may thus be understood in terms of the fuzzy nature of the AD-ABD interaction , which only loosely constrains the characteristics of hydrophobic AD residues . Pull-down experiments with individual ABDs showed no appreciable binding to any of nine ADs  , consistent with the previous suggestion that multiple ABDs are required for strong binding to Med15  . Multiple interaction sites were also common within ADs: PADDLE identified 42 ADs  that contained two or more non-overlapping cADs  . Thus , an increased valence of interaction sites in both Med15 and ADs drives stronger binding and activation . At larger scales , the number of interaction sites is further multiplied because some TFs contain multiple ADs , many TFs bind DNA as dimers , and many genes have several TF binding sites  . To understand the advantages conferred by the high valence of TF-Mediator interactions , we studied the kinetics in vitro of the initial step of activation: TF-driven recruitment of Mediator to DNA . We performed these experiments with Gcn4 , which forms homodimers and has an extended AD consisting of three cADs . We isolated budding yeast Mediator complex , coupled DNA containing a Gcn4 motif to a NeutrAvidin-coated surface , added Gcn4 , and measured real-time binding of Mediator by surface plasmon resonance  . The presence of additional , neighboring ADs retards dissociation by enabling recapture of Mediator released from one AD through binding to another . Conversely , we found that the multiplicity of ABDs in Mediator facilitated binding of Gcn4 ADs . To maintain stable TF-DNA complexes without TFs in solution , we repeated these experiments using a fusion of the Gcn4 AD to nuclease deficient EcoRI  , which resides on DNA for many hours and also forms homodimers  . Still , Mediator with no Gcn4 competitor or with 250-fold excess of Gcn4 competitor bound similarly  . Evidently , binding of Gcn4 to Mediator does not appreciably block binding of other Gcn4 molecules . This behavior may be explained by the occurrence of multiple Gcn4-binding sites on Mediator and weak interaction of a cAD with any one site . Rapid association-dissociation equilibrium of a cAD allows a second Gcn4 molecule to interact with Gcn4-bound Mediator , increasing the frequency of exchange of one Gcn4 molecule by another  . Such facilitated exchange provides a rationale for both the fuzzy nature of the AD-ABD interaction and the multiplicity of ABDs . PADDLE predictions and previous experiments  identified two strong ADs in the Med2 subunit of Mediator , which is adjacent to Med15 in the Mediator complex , suggesting a broader role for ADs beyond TF proteins  . We used PADDLE to search for ADs across all nuclear-localized non-TF proteins in yeast and selected 1485 fragments that showed potential for activation  . To see how often PADDLE fails to identify acidic ADs , we also included 291 control fragments that had extremely high acidic and hydrophobic content but were predicted not to activate . Zero control fragments activated  , showing that PADDLE likely identified all acidic ADs that exist and again demonstrating that AD function cannot be predicted from amino acid composition alone . ADs were remarkably widespread and were found in proteins associated with diverse functions including transcriptional regulation , RNA splicing , DNA repair , ribosome biogenesis , and protein degradation . Fourteen ADs were found in proteins that bind DNA and regulate pathway-specific genes; these proteins were not included in the original tiling library because they bind DNA only through a TF partner . The two predicted Med2 ADs were also confirmed to activate , 36-fold and 25-fold in our assay . Notably , ADs were identified in all major coactivator and chromatin modifying complexes , including Mediator , TFIID , cohesin , condensin , SAGA , RSC , SWI/SNF , ISWI , NuA4 , and FACT  . To investigate this possibility , we cross-referenced coactivator ADs with all available structures in the Protein Data Bank  and with the Database of Disordered Protein Predictions   . In fact , 23 ADs were predicted in D2P2 to be highly disordered  or were predominantly disordered or unresolved in PDB structures  , and so may be exposed and active in vivo . For example , cohesin , which binds Mediator and forms enhancer-promoter contacts through loop extrusion  , contained strong and likely-disordered ADs in its subunits Scc1  , Scc3  , and Smc3 , as well as multiple ADs on the meiotic-specific subunit Rec8 . These cohesin ADs , as well as ADs within other coactivators , may play a role in gene regulation by driving interactions with Mediator . This enabled us to detect—and predict with PADDLE—how activation strength depends on amino acid sequence , amino acid composition , and valence . Another approach is to account for TF expression by sorting based on the GFP reporter signal divided by aTF expression  ; this introduces substantial variability , because activation has a non-linear relationship with aTF expression  , and because this ratio can be systematically biased by features that affect aTF expression  . This may be why it has been concluded that acidic residues are not necessary for Gcn4 activation , whereas using a similar reporter system we found definitive evidence to the contrary . cerevisiae employ a shared acidic and hydrophobic basis and trained a neural network termed PADDLE to predict sequences that activate on this basis . PADDLE predicted ADs in human TFs with 92% accuracy , indicative of broad conservation of the acidic activation mechanism , and identified hundreds of new ADs in human TFs and virus proteins . PADDLE could further be used to interpret the functional impact of cancer-associated and naturally occurring mutations in human ADs . Predicted ADs from multiple species and instructions for running PADDLE are available online at paddle . However , its accuracy on wild-type sequences was much lower: only 33% of ADs predicted by ADpred activated in our experiments , and 29% of the ADs we identified were not predicted by ADpred , only 3 . This discrepancy may be because the random sequences on which ADpred was trained do not sufficiently represent the vastly larger space of actual protein sequences; for example , random sequences rarely form significant secondary structure . For example , we unexpectedly discovered that hydrophobic residues could inhibit activation by noticing that sub-domains of certain non-activating regions were predicted to activate on their own . More generally , predictions on AD subsequences identified the core domains responsible for activation at single-amino acid resolution , focusing subsequent experiments on these domains . This approach yielded the most detailed view to date of the principles governing acidic AD sequence , which we summarize as follows . Activation arises from an abundance of acidic and bulky hydrophobic residues , especially Asp , Trp , Phe , and Leu . The most potent activators cluster these residues densely , forming short core ADs . In most ADs , and especially with high hydrophobic content or abundant Phe and Trp residues , this clustering is sufficient to activate in a composition-driven manner , regardless of sequence or secondary structure . ADs with lower hydrophobic content , particularly those with many Leu residues , instead must position their hydrophobic residues along one face of an alpha helix to activate . Overall , the loose constraints on sequence explain the remarkable diversity and lack of evolutionary conservation of ADs . The unusual plasticity in AD sequence has several advantages . It facilitates spontaneous evolution of new ADs , since an appreciable proportion of even random sequences can activate . Indeed , the observation that nearly all core ADs could increase their strength with simple mutations demonstrates that proper regulation requires precisely adjusted rather than maximized activation . Similarly , AD sequences can preserve their activity while evolving other features , such as in the Gal4 C-terminal AD , whose sequence is specifically bound and inhibited by Gal80 in the absence of galactose  . With the use of mRNA display , we found that 73% of ADs bound the Med15 subunit of Mediator and that binding strength was strongly predictive of activation for thousands of wild-type and mutant protein sequences . In contrast , a five-protein TFIID subcomplex bound only 18% of ADs , all of which also bound Mediator . We conclude that Mediator recruitment by TFs is a key driver for gene activation , and Mediator recruitment is largely determined by affinity of ADs for the Med15 subunit . How is Med15 , through its four activator-binding domains  , able to interact with such a large diversity of AD sequences ? Despite the importance of hydrophobic interactions , our structural modeling showed that neither the Med15 KIX domain nor ABD1 provided enough shape complementarity to bury the hydrophobic residues of cADs . We therefore suggest that fuzzy binding to Med15 , previously demonstrated for the Gcn4 AD , is employed by all ADs . Second , neither ABD showed favored binding positions of Leu versus Phe residues of the cAD , suggesting that the shapes of those residues were unimportant . Thus , the loose constraints on binding shape explain the loose constraints on AD sequence . Instead , each ABD can be approximated as a hydrophobic surface , which engages hydrophobic AD residues through simple hydrophobic forces , flanked by basic residues , which form salt bridges and cation-pi interactions with acidic and aromatic AD residues . Clusters of hydrophobic residues adjacent to ADs inhibit activation , presumably because they compete for interaction with hydrophobic AD residues . Many experiments have shown that transcriptional initiation involves a cycle in which  TFs recruit Mediator to enhancers or upstream activating sites ,  Mediator contacts the promoter and orchestrates a series of events starting with chromatin rearrangement , followed by pre-initiation complex formation and finally RNA polymerase II recruitment , and  Mediator facilitates phosphorylation of the polymerase C-terminal domain , which releases polymerase into transcriptional elongation and triggers dissociation of Mediator  . Mediator release is apparently necessary because stably recruiting Mediator by fusing individual subunits to a DNA-binding domain failed to activate in nearly all subunits tested  . Our kinetic experiments showed that Mediator binds Gcn4-DNA complexes with high affinity but that excess Gcn4 does not impede this interaction , showing that interacting Mediator and Gcn4 molecules can exchange rapidly . ADs have primarily been characterized in TFs where they serve to recruit coactivators such as Mediator , TFIID , SAGA , SWI/SNF , and NuA4  . Our finding that functional ADs are also present in all coactivator complexes suggests that ADs have broader roles . First , coactivator ADs could interact with ABDs within the same complex , limiting their weak or non-specific binding to TFs . These auto-inhibited coactivators could still bind to ADs clustered on DNA through facilitated exchange . For example , we found that two cADs activated more efficiently and two DNA-bound Gcn4 dimers recruited Mediator more efficiently in tandem than individually . Second , coactivator ADs could amplify activation by mediating interactions between coactivators  . For example , upon Mediator binding to TFs , the two ADs on Med2 would be liberated from auto-inhibition and could recruit other coactivators . Alternatively , Mediator and other coactivators could cluster in the nucleoplasm through AD-ABD cross interactions and bind together to promoters . Either mode of interaction would explain why recruitment of the Med2/Med3/Med15 subcomplex suffices to recruit SWI/SNF to the CHA1 promoter and suffices for activation of the ARG1 gene , while deletion of both Med2 ADs impairs transcription of galactose-inducible genes  . Interactions between the four Med15 ABDs and the two Med2 ADs make possible phase separation of the Mediator tail subcomplex; other coactivators , with both ADs and ABDs , might phase separate as well . ADs have long been enigmatic , due to the apparent mismatch of their structure and function: AD sequences are abundant among random polypeptides , and yet ADs bind their targets with high specificity; AD peptides are apparently disordered , and yet they bind with high affinity . We now understand that these structural features of ADs are ideally suited to their functions—they render AD-target interaction dynamic , through rapid yet weak binding to single sites and strong binding yet rapid displacement from multiple sites . Dynamic AD-target interaction may serve various purposes , such as a rapid response to changing conditions , and the recruitment of multiple AD-bearing proteins to a single target . To generate positive control plasmids for the activation screen , IDT gBlocks containing genes expressing 53-aa regions from VP16 , Gcn4 , and Pho4 ADs were also cloned in the same manner as above . To ensure generation of a cellular library in which a unique pRS414-TFchassis plasmid was present in each cell , an assay was developed to quantify the fraction of cells initially receiving multiple plasmids and the time required for cells to reach single-copy plasmid levels by repeated cell divisions . First , using a high efficiency transformation protocol  , approximately 50 million yeast cells in a volume of 360 µL were transformed with 2 µg total plasmid DNA , consisting of an equal mixture of aTF plasmids expressing one AD from VP16 , Gcn4 , or Pho4 . To generate clonal control strains , cells were also separately transformed with a positive control plasmid expressing a VP16 , Gcn4 , or Pho4 AD or with a negative control plasmid , the pRS414-TFchassis plasmid without a protein fragment insert . Cells expressing just one plasmid containing the VP16 , Gcn4 , or Pho4 AD were also individually analyzed  and compared to results obtained for identical sequences in the pooled activation screen . The region of the plasmid encoding the variable protein fragment was PCR-amplified for 11–20 cycles  using Phusion polymerase with PCR primers that added flanking sequences corresponding to the standard Illumina sequencing primers . Genes expressing 50 randomly chosen putative human ADs predicted by PADDLE were synthesized in a single oPool  with Gibson homology arms , amplified using Phusion polymerase , and cloned into pFN26A BIND  using Gibson assembly . In addition , plasmids expressing a VP16 AD-positive control or three random protein sequences for negative controls were individually cloned in the same manner . Measured activity of each predicted AD or control sequence was computed by dividing the Firefly luciferase signal by the Renilla signal and then averaging the triplicate values . Fold-activation was computed by dividing the activity of each predicted AD by the mean activity of the three negative controls , Z-scores were computed based on log-scale fold-activation by standardizing the negative controls to mean of 0 and variance of 1 , and p-values were computed with one tailed Z-tests . An mRNA display library was made for each of sub-library A , sub-library B , and six pooled controls  , using the following method . Sub-libraries of wild-type and mutant TF fragments were expressed as mRNA-tagged peptides using mRNA display with in vitro translation as described in Takahashi and Roberts , 2009 . In addition to the two sub-libraries , similar DNA sequences encoding positive control ADs from VP16 , Gcn4 , and Pho4 and three negative control random protein sequences were synthesized as gBlocks   . The mRNA tag on the fused peptides was reverse transcribed using SuperScript II  and a primer that contained  a sequence that hybridizes just downstream of variable protein sequence coding region ,  a 12-nt random sequence that serves as a unique molecular identifier  , and  the Illumina read two sequencing primer sequence . Additionally , this design enabled the use of different primers to separately track sub-library A and sub-library B , as well as each of the six control sequences individually . Association , dissociation , and affinity constants of Mediator binding to Gcn4 on DNA were estimated by fitting to a Langmuir kinetic model using the ProteOn Manager Software  . Note that Mediator dissociation rates in conditions with multiple Gcn4 binding sites may be overestimated because it also includes the dissociation of Gcn4 from DNA . Gcn4AD-EcoRI  was bound along analyte channels at 27 nM monomer in 20 mM Tris-HCl  , 10 mM MgCl2 , 300 mM NaCl , 10 mM bME , 0 . The first library of protein sequences was composed of sub-library A , which contained wild-type tiles spanning all S . The second library was composed of sub-library D and sub-library E , which contained multiple collections of wild-type , mutant , and designed sequences . Sequences in sub-libraries A , B , and D were 53 amino acids in length and sequences in sub-library E were 30 amino acids in length . The use of sequencing primers unique to each sub-library enabled us to submit samples for sequencing in multiplexed format and accurately assign reads to the correct sub-library computationally . Calculations of GFP signal and fold-activation required the following inputs: First , to make cell counts comparable between sorting bins 1–4 versus bins 5–8 , the number of cells sorted into each GFP bin were normalized based on the number of events assayed in each sort . Second , to estimate the number of cells sorted into each of the 8 GFP bins that expressed a given protein fragment F , the total number of cells sorted into each bin was multiplied by the fraction of sequencing reads for that bin that mapped to F . Because GFP distributions cells expressing single AD sequences were normally distributed in FACS data when GFP signal  was plotted in log-scale , all averages of GFP distributions were calculated in log-scale  . Since a small fraction of random sequences activate , outlier sequences were iteratively excluded if they had GFP signal greater than three standard deviations away from the mean , resulting in three sequences excluded from each sub-library . In activation assays with sub-libraries D and E , we noticed that many sequencing reads that were mapped with a small number of errors corresponded to fragments with a very large GFP standard deviation . For the activation assay with sub-libraries A and B , this was  for sub-library A and  for sub-library B . The same metrics for the activation assay with sub-libraries D and E was  for sub-library D and  for sub-library E . To define ADs across all TFs , at each protein position a mean Z-score was calculated from the Z-scores of all fragments overlapping that position . ADs were defined for all intervals of the protein that had a mean positional Z-score  greater than 3 . Starting with intervals that had the highest maximal MPZ score , the start and stop positions of the AD were defined by the full width half maximum; that is , the positions in the protein at which the MPZ fell below half of the maximal MPZ value in that interval . If the AD defined in this manner includes a new region with an MPZ score higher than the original maximal value , this indicated that the MPZ peak was only small relative to nearby peaks , so the AD was then excluded . We compared our ADs with the Induction Dynamics gene Expression Atlas   , which induced expression of every TF individually and measured ‘v_inter’ parameters that describe the resulting fold-change in the expression of all target genes . We then compared these proportions for TFs that had a strong AD  versus TFs without ADs . Because the goal was to quantify the total content of hydrophobic residues rather than the net hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity , hydrophobic content of a peptide is computed as the sum of the scores of only the hydrophobic residues  . ADs predicted by ADpred were defined using the authors’ criteria , namely sites with five or more contiguous residues with a score >= 0 . Alternatively , to compare ADpred predictions directly to our experimental measurements of activation , a representative ADpred score for each 53-aa TF tile in our library was calculated by taking the 80th percentile of ADpred scores of 30-aa tiles contained within the 53-aa tile . Baseline binding was defined using the 50 random protein control sequences in each library , except the sequences that were outliers in the activation assay were excluded . Specifically , random control outliers were iteratively removed if their activation was more than three standard deviations away from the mean  , resulting in the exclusion of random control #2 , 12 , 16 , 38 from sub-library A and #17 , 18 , 21 , 22 , 31 , 43 from sub-library B . A small number of highly positively-charged fragments bound in Med15 pull-downs when the mRNA display library was purified on a sucrose gradient but did not bind when the sucrose gradient was omitted . Med15-binding domains were annotated in the same manner as ADs using a mean positional Z-score , but with a cutoff of 2 . An AD was considered to bind Med15 or TFIID subcomplex if it overlapped a fragment that bound significantly  by at least 26 aa . A Med15-binding domain was considered to activate if it overlapped an AD . Because adjacent TF tiles have significant overlap in sequence , all tiles from each protein were placed into the same train or test split . From sub-library B , all mutants and homologs of the Pdr1 AD and all scramble mutants were held-out in the test set and the remaining sequences were distributed evenly across the training splits . Because secondary structure prediction was by far the slowest aspect of running PADDLE predictions , we trained a version of PADDLE called PADDLE-noSS which only used the one-hot sequence encoding for input , no secondary structure or disorder predictions . PADDLE-noSS was nearly as accurate as PADDLE  and was used for predictions of core ADs and mutant sequences in Figure 3E–G , Figure 3—figure supplement 1E–I , and Figure 4—figure supplement 1F . Within each human TF or vTR , predictions on 53-aa tiles at 1-aa resolution were generated using PADDLE and smoothed with a 9-aa moving average . High-strength ADs were defined as the union of at least 5 consecutive 53-aa tiles with a predicted Z-score greater than 6 . ADs defined in this way that overlapped by more than 26 aa were combined . Medium-strength ADs were defined similarly with a Z-score cutoff of 4 and were required to not overlap with high-strength ADs by more than 26 aa . For testing in a luciferase assay , 50 predicted high-strength ADs from human TFs were chosen at random and the tile with the strongest  predicted Z-score from each AD was used . Within each protein , predictions on 53-aa tiles at 1-aa resolution were generated using PADDLE and smoothed with a 9-aa moving average . The 53-aa tiles corresponding to the local maxima were included , starting from those with the largest predicted Z-score , unless they overlapped a previously-included tile by at least 15 aa . Analysis of experimentally-confirmed ADs focused on proteins that had experimental or high-throughput evidence for nuclear localization . To calculate enrichment of activating tiles in coactivator proteins , we generated a null model in which ‘activating’ tiles , equal in number to actual activating tiles discovered in our screen , were randomly selected from among non-TF nuclear proteins . To define core ADs , predictions of sequences shorter than 53 aa were done using PADDLE-noSS by embedding the shorter region in 100 different neutral sequences composed of AGSTNQV residues and averaging the predicted values . Predictions of all tiles 5–30 aa in length within every AD were computed in this manner , and used to define core ADs for Figure 3F–G , Figure 7A , and Figure 7—figure supplement 1B . Specifically , core ADs were defined as the shortest tiles with predicted Z-score greater than 3 . In Figure 3—figure supplement 1I , the 20-aa region within each AD with the highest predicted Z-score was included if it had Z-score greater than 3 . 09 , and the effects of single AA mutants in these 20-aa core ADs were predicted in the same manner using PADDLE-noSS . To generate structural models of binding , we took 28 core ADs peptides 13 residues in length and docked them to the ABDs using Rosetta3  , specifically its FlexPepDock ab initio pipeline  . Core ADs were used as the peptide , and activator-binding domain as the receptor . For ABD1 , the AD of Gcn4 was used to aid in placement . For each AD-ABD pair , a set of 50 , 000 structural models were generated and ranked by FlexPepDock’s reweighted_sc score . Additionally , larger runs with 500 , 000 structural models and clustering on the top 5000 models were run for six individual ADs for the KIX ABD . The full list of ABDs and ADs used is available in Figure 6—source data 1 . Residues are shown from all the 10 best models from different clusters for all core AD structures if the marked position is within 3 Angstroms of the KIX domain or ABD1 structure . "
