Cell-fate reprograming is the process by which cells change from one type of cell to another . For example , when a cell divides into two types of cells ,
Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that can cause a wide range of life-threatening infections , including pneumonia , sepsis and urinary tract infections ( Bengoa and Saeche Pessoa , 2019; Paczosa and Meas , 2016; European Centre for Disease
Plasmodium vivax is the most widely distributed species of malaria in the world , causing 80 to 300 million clinical episodes every year . The disease is transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito , one of the most common vectors of the disease .
The Amazon rainforest is one of the world’s largest storehouses of carbon , which is released into the atmosphere when trees are cut down to make way for agriculture and grazing . The carbon stored in the forests is then released into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide ( C ) , which is a greenhouse
The brain is made up of two regions : the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus and the lateral wall of the lateral ventricle .
Cells are constantly exposed to mechanical forces that occur in milliseconds . The rapid sensing of mechanical forces that occurs in milliseconds is achieved by force-gated ion channels that are gated into electrochemical signals . The degree to which forces are transduced homogeneously across the cell membrane likely depends not only on the dynamics
Decision-making is an important part of our daily lives . We make decisions about what to do , what to eat , what to do with our time , and what to do with our money .
In the tiny worm Caenorhabditis elegans , a protein called Calcineurin ( PP2B ) is a key regulator of the cell’s lifespan . Calcineurin is also a key regulator of the cell’s lifespan .
In the animal kingdom , animals engage in a variety of complex serial behaviors that are essential for survival , such as nest building , communication , courtship , and prey capture . Animals engage in a variety of complex serial behaviors that are essential for survival , such as nest building , communication
During the first round of meiotic division , chromosomes are separated into two groups . During the second round of meiotic division , chromosomes are separated into two groups . During the first round of meiotic division , chromosomes are separated into two groups . During the second round of
Neurons communicate with each other via a network of connections called synapses . During this process , the connections between neurons are called synapses . During this process , the connections between neurons are called synapses . During this process , the connections between neurons are called synapses . During
Morphogenesis is the process by which different types of cells in the body develop into different types of tissues and organs . For example , during the early stages of development , the brain and other parts of the body are formed from a single cell population . However , during the later stages of development
The brain encodes information into a set of objects called working memory . For example , the brain encodes information into a set of objects called working memory . For example , the brain encodes information into a set of objects called working memory . For example , the brain encodes information
Autophagy , a process that allows cells to recycle waste material into new cells , is essential for the survival of many organisms , including plants . However , the process can also be disrupted by pathogens , such as the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans .
When the heart is starved of oxygen and nutrients , it produces an inflammatory response that leads to tissue damage and death .
When a gene is expressed , it is transcribed into a protein called a nucleosome . The nucleosome is made up of two parts :
The nervous system is made up of a network of nerve cells called motoneurons , which communicate with each other to control the movement of the body . The nervous system is made up of a network of nerve cells called motoneurons , which communicate with each other to control the movement of the body
Tissues are made up of many different types of cells , but they all have one thing in common :
Huntington’s disease ( HD ) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the brain and spinal cord . The disease is caused by a mutation in a gene that encodes a protein called huntingtin , which is found in the brain and spinal cord .
Iron is essential for the survival of all organisms as it serves as a cofactor for a host of biochemical reactions required for the survival of all organisms . Iron is essential for the survival of all organisms as it serves as a cofactor for a host of biochemical reactions required for the survival of all organisms .
The prefrontal cortex ( PFC ) is central to higher-level cognition . Damage to the PFC produces severe deficits in goal-directed cognition ( Luria , 1966; Damasio and Anderson , 1993; Lhermitte , 1986 ) . Damage to the PFC produces severe deficits
The brain is made up of a network of cells called the neocortex , which fold together to form the cortex , the part of the brain responsible for learning and memory . During the evolution of the human brain , the neocortex expanded and folded to form the cortex , which is
In plants , the immune system must be tightly controlled to provide appropriate and timely resistance to threats . In plants , the immune system must be tightly controlled to provide appropriate and timely resistance to threats . In plants , the immune system must be tightly controlled to provide appropriate and timely resistance to threats
In plants , DNA is made up of two parts :
The brain is made up of two parts : the cortex , which is the part of the brain responsible for learning and memory , and the hippocampus , which is the part of the brain responsible for spatial memory .
Infectious diseases , such as malaria and dengue fever , are caused by a number of different viruses , bacteria , and parasites . Many of these viruses and bacteria are transmitted from person to person through sexual recombination .
The human pathogenic bacteria Shigella flexneri inactivates the host inflammatory Nf-B signaling , responsible for inducing inflammatory cytokine responses during pathogen invasion . In the early events of interleukin-dependent activation of Nf-B signaling , the Ub-conjugating enzyme UBC13
The cortex , the part of the brain that processes information , is made up of many different types of neurons , each of which has a specific role in the processing of information . For example , in the auditory cortex , the somatostatin-positive and parvalbumin-positive
The brain is made up of many interconnected networks , each of which is responsible for a specific task . For example , the right frontoparietal brain region supports working memory , while the left frontoparietal brain region supports learning and memory . The right frontoparietal brain region
All vertebrates , including birds , mammals , reptiles and amphibians , are able to give birth to twins . However , some species are able to give birth to twins , while others do not .
The sense of smell is one of the most fundamental senses in the animal world . It is important for animals to be able to detect and respond to changes in their environment . For example , the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , for example , is capable of orienting itself to a
In plants , fertilization of the two female gametes , egg cell and central cell by the two male sperm cells results in the development of the embryo and the endosperm , a tissue which supports embryo growth . In flowering plants , fertilization of the two female gametes , egg cell and
The bacterium Clostridium difficile , known as Clostridium difficile or Clostridium difficile , is a major cause of antibiotic-resistant infections . The bacterium causes infections in the urinary tract , which can be treated with antibiotics .
Congenital amusia is a rare condition characterized by impaired perception of and memory for pitch . Congenital amusia is a rare condition characterized by impaired perception of and memory for pitch ( Peretz et al .
Devil Facial Tumour 2 ( DFT2 ) is a recently discovered contagious cancer circulating in the Tasmanian devil ( Sarcophilus harrisii ) , a species which already harbours a more widespread contagious cancer , Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( DFT1 ) .
One of the most densely connected regions of the brain , the retrosplenial cortex ( RSG ) is among the most densely connected regions of the brain . The RSG is also among the most densely connected regions of the brain , integrating inputs from a bevy of cortical and subcortical
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a leading cause of disability worldwide . It can result from direct physical insults from rapid acceleration and deceleration of the brain , or from shock wave impacts such as pressure waves from explosive blasts
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI ) is one of the most powerful tools available to scientists to study the human brain . It can be used to study the structure and function of the brain , as well as the behaviour and lifestyle of individuals .
Muscles are made up of two types of cells :
The brain is one of the most complex systems in the body , with many different parts of the brain involved in learning , memory , language , and movement . One of the most important areas of the brain is the motor cortex , which is the part of the brain that controls movement
The visual cortex is one of the most important areas of the brain for processing information from the retina . It contains a network of over 30 extrastriate visual areas , which process information from the retina
The host innate immune system detects infection by directly recognizing molecular signatures associated with pathogens . However , such signatures include universal building blocks of all life , such as DNA and RNA ( Janeway and Medzhitov , 2002; Orzalli and Knipe , 2014; Paludan and Bowie
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases in humans . The plaques that form in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease are made up of proteins called amyloid plaques . In Alzheimer's disease , amyloid plaques build up in the brain and
The nervous system is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells in the brain , spinal cord , and other parts of the body
One of the great challenges of the post-ENCODE era has been to ascribe regulatory function to the biochemically active non-coding portion of genomes . This question is particularly pertinent to transposable elements ( TEs ) , which often display marks of regulatory activity in a species-specific manner
Plants use a chemical process called photosynthesis to remove carbon dioxide from the air and convert it into energy . The process is called C4 photosynthesis , and it is thought to have first evolved between 32 million years ago and 25 million years ago .
Nucleoside triphosphates ( NTPs ) are the main source of energy in a cell and are used to drive a variety of biochemical reactions . For example , adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) in general is the principal source of energy in a cell and is used by motor proteins to
The hypothalamus , the part of the brain responsible for regulating metabolism , is located in the hypothalamus region of the brain . The hypothalamus regulates the amount of energy that is stored in the hypothalamus , and the amount of energy that is consumed by the body . The hypothalamus also regulates the amount of energy
In plants , a receptor called FLS2 senses bacterial flagellin to activate the plant’s immune system . The receptor forms a complex with two other proteins , AGB1 and AGG1 , and a protein called BIK1
In plants , a 24-hour rhythm called the circadian clock regulates the activity of genes throughout the day and night . It is important for plants to be able to respond to changes in the environment , such as changes in light or temperature . For example , a 24-hour rhythm called the circadian clock
Hearing loss can be caused by a variety of factors , including age , age-related hearing loss , age-related hearing loss , age-related hearing loss , and age-related hearing loss . One of the most common causes of hearing loss is age-related hearing loss .
The retina is one of the most important structures in the human body , serving as a source of light and nutrients for the brain and eyes . The retina is made up of a network of tiny capillaries that carry blood and nutrients from the retina to the brain and other parts of the body . The capillaries
The symbiotic relationship between plants and bacteria , known as arbuscular mycorrhiza ( AM ) and rhizobia , is one of the most important ways in which plants can overcome food shortages . The symbiotic relationship between plants and bacteria , known as arbuscular myco
For many years , scientists have used advanced imaging technologies to study animal behaviour . However , many of these methods are time-consuming and error-prone , leading to concerns about the use of animals for research . These concerns have led to the development of automated methods for quantifying behavior using advanced imaging
Inflammation is an immune response that is required for an organized response to infection , injury , and stress . Innate immune cells such as macrophages have evolved sensors of pathogens and homeostatics which are activated in response to a diverse set of pathogen-associated patterns ( PAMPs ) .
Breast cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in women . It is caused by mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes .
Cell shape is a characteristic and hereditary feature that is crucial for existence and is a common challenge for organisms across all biological kingdoms . Cell shape is a characteristic and hereditary feature that is crucial for existence and is a common challenge for organisms across all biological kingdoms . Cell shape is a characteristic and hereditary feature that is
Flowering plants , such as Arabidopsis thaliana , have evolved to produce flowers with a number of petals . However , some species have evolved to produce flowers with fewer petals .
Type two diabetes is a condition in which the body does not produce enough insulin to meet the needs of the body . The lack of insulin causes the body to produce excessive amounts of fat , which can lead to weight gain , obesity , and other health problems . In type two diabetes ,
DNA is the genetic material that makes up most of the human body , and it contains many of the genes that make up most of the human genome . However , many of the genes that make up most of the human genome are
Neurons in the entorhinal cortex , the part of the brain responsible for spatial navigation , are known to be active during the exploration of images with eye-movements .
Neuroscience is a field that faces a reproducibility crisis , in which scientists are unable to share the results of their experiments with the public .
The digestive system is one of the most important parts of the body , but it is also one of the most vulnerable to injury and disease . Damage to the digestive system can lead to gastrointestinal ( GI ) diseases , such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis .
Fish communicate by producing a species-specific electric organ discharge ( EOD ) at variable interpulse intervals ( IPIs ) . The ability of some species to detect subtle variations in EOD waveforms is related to differences in the anatomy and physiology of peripheral sensory receptors called knollenorgans ( Hard
Viral proteins fall into three major structural classes . Capsid proteins of non-enveloped viruses fall into three major structural classes: the -jellyroll for its cement protein ( CP ) and HK97-like ( ‘Johnson’ ) for its major capsid protein ( MCP
Each year , millions of people around the world are infected with dengue fever , a mosquito-borne virus that causes severe dengue fever , a disease that can lead to severe brain damage and death .
The membrane of a cell contains a complex network of molecules that control the activity of the cell . One of these molecules is called Ras , and it plays a key role in regulating the activity of the cell .
In the early stages of development , cells in the nervous system , including the brain and spinal cord , divide into two distinct groups . These groups divide into two distinct groups , one of which is called the dorsoventral axis , and the other , the anterior wing disc
The lysosomal membrane is an important part of the cell membrane . The lysosomal membrane contains a dense layer of carbohydrates attached to proteins , nucleic acids and oligosaccharides .
A protein called kinesin is a member of a superfamily of molecular motors that use the energy of ATP hydrolysis to transport cargo along microtubules .
Mitochondria are the powerhouses of the cell and are responsible for transporting energy from the outside world to the inside of the cell . However , many of the proteins that make up the mitochondria are misfolded , causing them to lose their ability to transport energy to the inside of the cell . The
The epidermis , the outermost layer of the skin , contains many different types of cells , including skin cells , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , fibroblasts , and fibroblasts .
The 24-hour cycle , known as the 24-hour cycle , is one of the most important biological systems in nature . The 24-hour cycle , known as the 24-hour cycle , is one of the most important biological systems in nature . The 24-hour cycle , known as the 24-
Cardio-vascular diseases and sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) are together among the highest causes of mortality in the general population , and ventricular arrhythmias are identifiable in almost all cardiac diseases .
Bacteria , including Vibrio cholerae , are known for their ability to form complex structures , such as biofilms , on their surfaces .
Epileptic seizures , also known as epilepsy , occur when the brain is damaged by an injury , such as a brain tumour , stroke , or injury to the nervous system .
In the brain , sensory information is divided into two streams : the visual system and the auditory system . In the olfactory system , sensory information is divided into two streams : the visual system and the auditory system . In the olfactory system , sensory information is divided into two streams :
Allosteric receptors , also known as G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) , are a family of proteins that are involved in a variety of biological processes , including cell division , metabolism , and the formation of new cells . Allosteric receptors can be found in
DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are the most catastrophic form of DNA damage and pose great threat to genome stability . DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are the most catastrophic form of DNA damage and pose great threat to genome stability . DNA double-strand breaks are
T cells are a type of white blood cell that are able to detect and respond to a variety of antigens . T cells are able to detect and respond to a variety of antigens . T cells are a type of white blood cell that are able to detect and respond to a variety of antigens . T
Cancer is a disease that affects the body’s immune system and is caused by mutations in genes that control the body’s immune system .
Stress is a natural part of life for all species . It affects the nervous system , including the hypothalamus , the part of the brain that regulates the body’s response to stress
Hemoglobin ( Hb ) represents a model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates . Although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the former was thought to determine evolutionary adaptations of Hb .
The malaria parasite , Plasmodium sporozoites , infects the skin of the mammalian host and causes a blood-stage infection . The sporozoites are then carried by the blood flow to the liver , where they initiate a liver- and subsequently a blood-stage infection .
Cells are made up of many different parts , each with its own set of functions . For example , a cell can divide into two groups , each with its own set of instructions . For example , a cell can divide into two groups , each with its own set of instructions
Decision-making is an important part of our daily lives . For example , we make decisions about whether to buy or sell something . For example , we make decisions about whether to buy or sell something . For example , we make decisions about whether to buy or sell something . For
The circadian clock orchestrates daily rhythms in organisms , physiology and behavior that allow organisms to anticipate regular changes in their environment . The circadian clock orchestrates daily rhythms in metabolism , physiology and behavior that allow organisms to anticipate regular changes in their environment
Synaptic transmission relies on two distinct molecular pathways for neurotransmitter release: the preparation of neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicles to a docked state at the active-zone and action potential-driven opening of voltage-gated calcium channels causing rapid elevation of intracellular calcium in the vicinity of these vesicles .
The epidermis , the outermost layer of the skin of plants , is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells . These cells are called epidermis cells , and they form part of the epidermis .
Most human genes contain multiple introns , each of which is responsible for one of the most important functions of a gene :
Proteins are made up of a series of molecules that fold together to form a single molecule . This process is called folding , and many of the proteins involved in the folding process are also called membrane proteins .
Men and women have different ways of making decisions . For example , male and female mice have different ways of making decisions . For example , male and female mice have different ways of making decisions . For example , male and female mice have different ways of making decisions . For example
The endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) is a major site for protein folding and maturation in the endomembrane system of the cell . The endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) is a major site for protein folding and maturation in the endomembrane system of the cell . The endoplasmic re
The extracellular hedgehog ( Hh ) is one of the most common proteins in the animal kingdom . It is also one of the most common proteins in the human body . The extracellular hedgehog ( Hh ) is one of the most common proteins in the animal kingdom . It is also
Pain can be caused by a number of factors , including injury to the spinal cord , spinal cord injury , or a combination of both . Pain can be caused by a number of factors , including injury to the spinal cord , spinal cord injury , or a combination of both .
Craniosynostosis , also known as craniosynostosis , is a condition in which the skull is not properly formed , resulting in multiple defects , including polysyndactyly . Craniosynostosis , also known as craniosynostosis ,
Epigenetics is the study of how genes are expressed in the body . Epigenetics is the study of how genes are expressed in the body . Epigenetics is the study of how genes are expressed in the body . Epigenetics is the study of how genes are expressed in the body
In the cell , the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) processes the vast majority of newly secreted proteins destined for insertion into the cell membrane . However , protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum is a complex process that requires the help of a number of chaperones , which are
Plant diseases , such as those caused by viruses , are an important source of income for many countries around the world . However , many of the viruses that infect plants are flexible , which makes them difficult to study .
Cells are made up of many different types of proteins , and each one plays a key role in the body’s immune system . One of these proteins is called an antibody , and it binds to a specific protein on the surface of the cell .
The skin of vertebrates is one of the most complex structures in the animal kingdom . It contains many different layers of skin , each with its own set of cells and tissues .
One of the most important functions of the brain is to control the activity of other cells in the brain . For example , in the brain , there are two types of neurons :
Transcription factors ( TFs ) work in concert to specify the earliest lineages in the mammalian embryo . The transcription factors ( TFs ) Sox2 and Oct4 work in concert to specify the earliest lineages in the mammalian embryo . The transcription factors ( TFs ) Sox2 and Oct
Food contaminated with bacteria can cause serious health problems , including infections , infections , and even death . For example , food contaminated with Gram-negative bacteria can cause infections , infections , and even death . For example , food contaminated with Gram-negative bacteria can cause infections
T cells are an important part of the immune system . They are able to detect and respond to a wide range of antigens , including those that cause cancer , autoimmune diseases , and infectious diseases .
Proteins are the building blocks of life , and they are essential for the survival and growth of many different organisms .
Amyotrophic sclerosis ( ALS ) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by upper and lower motor neuron ( MN ) loss . However , whether early NMJ denervation arises from local branch-specific degeneration ( ‘dying-back hypothesis’ ) or is merely the manifestation of a
For more than 40 years , tamoxifen has been used to treat hormone-responsive breast cancers . This therapy has been associated with a variety of negative side effects , including increased risk for hot flashes , bone loss , and fatigue . In contrast to these benefits , tamoxifen therapy has been associated
Listeria monocytogenes is a food-borne pathogen that can cause meningitis and septicemia . In addition , in immunocompromised individuals it can cross the blood–brain barrier and in pregnant women the feto-placental barrier potentially leading to cases of meningitis and septicemia .
The structure and dynamics of biomolecules can be studied using a variety of techniques , including fluorescence microscopy , X-ray diffraction , and single-molecule Frster resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ) . Single-molecule Frster resonance energy transfer ( smFRET
One of the most important functions of a gene is to regulate the activity of other genes . For example , when a gene is expressed in a specific region of a cell , it is regulated by another gene that is expressed in another region of the cell . For example , when a gene is
The ribosome is one of the most important parts of the cell and plays a key role in the translation of genes into proteins . The ribosome is made up of a series of tiny structures called ribosomes , which are responsible for the translation of genes into proteins . The ribosome
Prolonged exposure to bright light can lead to poor visual acuity , especially if the eye is too short . Prolonged exposure to bright light can lead to poor visual acuity , especially if the eye is too short . Prolonged exposure to bright light can lead to poor visual acuity , especially if
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a human pathogen that can cause diseases such as pneumonia , otitis media and meningitis . Asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx is a prerequisite for disease , but variability in its duration is currently only understood at the serotype level . Here we developed a
The heart is one of the most complex structures in the body . It is made up of a network of cells called the -subunits . The -subunits are made up of two proteins , KC1 and KCNE1 . KC1 and KCNE1
The caudal fin of the zebrafish is one of the most complex structures in the animal kingdom , and it can regenerate many different types of tissue . The caudal fin of the zebrafish is one of the most complex structures in the animal kingdom , and it can regenerate many different types of tissue
Many processes in biological cells depend on interactions between macromolecules ( proteins and nucleic acids ) and nucleic acids . Many processes in biological cells depend on interactions between macromolecules ( proteins and nucleic acids ) and nucleic acids . Many processes in biological cells depend on interactions between macro
Invertebrates , including flatworms , are capable of regenerating tissue following injuries . Invertebrates such as Hydra are capable of whole-body regeneration from tissue fragments , and many vertebrates can regenerate appendages or repair damaged organs ( Snchez Alvarado , 2000 )
One of the most common forms of cancer , colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is the most common type of cancer in the United States . However , it is also one of the most common types of cancer in the world .
Cells are made up of many different types of cells , each of which has its own set of proteins . For example , the photoreceptors in our eyes are made up of two different types of proteins , one of which is called ‘heterodimer’ , and the other called ‘
The ribosome is a complex of proteins that forms part of the cell’s nucleus . The ribosome is made up of a series of proteins called ribosomes , which are made up of a series of
Being tall is one of the most heritable human traits ( Fisher , 1919; Lettre , 2011 ) . Although height is one of the most heritable human traits ( Fisher , 1919; Lettre , 2011 ) , cross-population differences are believed to be
Death from opioid overdose results from slow and shallow breathing , also known as opioid induced respiratory ( OIRD ) . Like humans , breathing in mice is severely depressed by opioids and this response is eliminated when the -Opioid receptor ( Oprm1 ) is globally deleted
The hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is one of the most common viruses in the world . About 2 billion people worldwide have been infected with the virus .
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition in which the body’s immune system overreacts to a bacterial infection . The infection causes the body’s immune system to produce excessive levels of cytokines , a type of inflammatory protein .
Human DNA is made up of a series of single-stranded DNA molecules called L1s . Most of the L1s that make up the human genome are
The eye is one of the most important structures in the human body , and its ability to adapt to changes in the environment , such as changes in light or shadow , is one of the most important functions of the eye . The eye’s ability to adapt to changes in light and shadow is
How do organisms sense the Earth’s magnetic field for the purpose of navigation ? There has been renewed interest recently in the effects of magnetic fields on biological cells . On the one hand we have the old puzzle of magnetosensation: How do organisms sense the Earth’s magnetic field for the purpose of
Stem cells are a type of cell that can differentiate into any type of cell in the body . Stem cells can self-renew , differentiate , or enter quiescence . Understanding how stem cells switch between these states is highly relevant for stem cell-based therapeutics .
HIV is an enveloped virus that carries its RNA genome and associated viral proteins within a protein shell called the capsid ( Welker et al . , 2000 ) . Upon engagement of CD4 and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 , the viral membrane fuses with the plasma membrane of the host
Breast cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in women . However , the causes of breast cancer remain unknown .
Cilia are tiny structures found on the surface of cells . These tiny structures are made up of hundreds of proteins and hundreds of lipids , which are
The myosin superfamily is a group of proteins that are involved in the development and maintenance of hair cells . Myo3 is one of these proteins , and it plays a key role in the development and maintenance of hair cells .
Cells use calcium channels to communicate with each other and with the outside world . However , calcium channels are not always able to communicate with each other .
Neuroplasticity is the ability of the brain to adapt both structurally and functionally to changing patterns of activity induced by the environment or intrinsic factors . Neuroplasticity is the ability of the brain to adapt both structurally and functionally to changing patterns of activity induced by the environment or intrinsic factors .
Neurons communicate with each other via a network of synapses , which connect the brain to the rest of the body . These connections are called ion channels , and they allow the brain to communicate with other parts of the body .
The gut is one of the most important organs in the body , but it is also one of the most difficult to study . For example , when a person is infected with helminth , which is a type of parasitic worm , it is difficult to isolate immune cells from the gut
Proteasomal protein degradation is a key determinant of protein half-life and hence of cellular processes ranging from basic metabolism to a host of immunological processes . Proteasomal protein degradation is a key determinant of protein half-life and hence of cellular processes ranging from basic metabolism to a host of immunological processes .
One of the most important functions of the brain is to communicate with other parts of the body , such as the eye and the brain . In this process , a chemical called histamine is used to send a signal from one neuron to another . This chemical is called a neurotransmitter ,
Most living animals undergo a physiological decline with age . Yet , despite decades of intense study , no consensus has emerged regarding the primary cause of this decline . One leading hypothesis is the free radical theory of aging , which postulates that aging is caused by an accumulation of oxidative damage to cellular macro
Proteins are made up of a series of molecules called amino acids . The amino acids are divided into two groups called D-aminoacyl-tRNAs and L-aminoacyl-tRNAs .
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator ( CFTR ) is a protein that regulates the activity of a number of genes , including those involved in cystic fibrosis .
The membranes of cells are made up of two layers of molecules called lipids . The first layer contains the molecules that make up the cell membrane . The second layer contains the molecules that make up the cell membrane . The first layer contains the molecules that make up the cell membrane . The second layer contains
The human brain is made up of hundreds or even thousands of neurons , each of which is responsible for a specific task . In order to understand how the brain works , scientists need to know how these neurons work . One way to do this is by studying the activity of neurons in the brain
The female genitalia of a cave insect , known as Neotrogla , is one of the largest genitalia in the insect world . Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen . Females have a penis-like
In the cell , neurotransmitters are released into the synapses , which are the junctions between the brain and the spinal cord . In the brain , neurotransmitters are released into the synapses , which are the junctions between the brain and the spinal cord . In the cell
The integrin adhesome contains more than hundred proteins with multiple binding sites for each other . Upon local signals , components of the integrin adhesome get self-assembled along the plasma membrane to form nascent adhesion sites and to further mature them to focal complexes and focal adhesions ( Zam
Arousal levels are low during sleep and high during anesthesia . Both sleep stages and anesthesia are characterized by a behaviorally similar state of reduced physical arousal . Both NREM sleep stage 3 ( also called slow-wave sleep ) and general anesthesia with propofol exhibit similar electrophysiological features
chloroplasts are the chloroplasts of plants , which are located inside the nucleus of the plant . The chloroplasts are responsible for transporting signals or macromolecules to the nucleus , which in turn transports them to other parts of the plant . Stroma-filled tubular structures called stromules
Proteins , which are the building blocks of life , interact with each other to form complex structures . For example , the proteins of bacteria , formate lyases , and
Eye movements are an important part of our daily lives , and they play an important role in our understanding of the world around us . For example , we use eye movements to identify objects in the world around us . For example , we use eye movements to identify objects in the world around us
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell is made up of thousands of tiny structures called nuclear pore complexes (NPCs ) . These pore complexes are located inside the cell’s nucleus and are responsible for transporting cargo across the nuclear envelope .
T cells are an important part of the immune system , and they play a key role in the body’s response to infections . T cells are a type of white blood cell that can differentiate into a variety of different types of cells , including T helper type 1 and T follicular helper cells
Helicobacter pylori is a bacterium that colonizes the human stomach and can cause stomach ulcers and gastric cancers . Helicobacter pylori is a helical Gram-negative bacterium that colonizes the human stomach and can cause stomach ulcers and gastric cancers .
Mitochondria , the cells that make up the body , are constantly undergoing fusion and fission events . For example , when the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) is damaged , it fuses with the late endosome , which
The occipital cortex is one of the most important parts of the brain for hearing and seeing . The occipital cortex is the part of the brain responsible for hearing and seeing .
One of the most extraordinary products of evolution are microorganisms that can manipulate animal behavior to their advantage . Some of the best characterized examples of this phenomenon are found within the entomopathogenic fungi , fungal species that parasitize insect hosts . The ability to precisely manipulate insect behavior has evolved independently multiple times within
RNAs are the building blocks of DNA , and are used by cells to make proteins and other molecules . RNAs are made up of two types of molecules :
Plants produce many metabolites that are essential for responding to environmental cues . Plants produce many metabolites that are essential for responding to environmental cues
Adult stem cells , also known as astrocytes , are a type of cell that can differentiate into many different types of cells , including neurons . Adult stem cells , also known as astrocytes , are a type of cell that can differentiate into many different types of cells ,
Microbial communities are critical drivers of nutrients and energy conversion process in natural and engineered ecosystems . However , the vast majority of microbes and viruses remain uncultivated and their diversity is extensive , so that model system-based measurements rarely reflect the network properties of natural microbial communities .
Cilia and flagella are hair-like microtubule-based organelles that protrude from the cell surface . Cilia and flagella are basically similar structures and are present in organisms as diverse as single-celled eukaryotes and humans .
Melanoma is one of the most deadly forms of skin cancer . Melanoma is a type of skin cancer that can spread to other parts of the body .
The nervous system is made up of a network of cells called neurons , which communicate with each other and with other parts of the body .
Early signs of autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) are often associated with a lack of social-communicative skills . This lack of social-communicative skills is known as social visual engagement difficulties . Social visual engagement difficulties often combine with a strong preference for and attention towards non-social stimuli .
Blood cells , also known as hematopoietic cells , are the cells that line the blood vessels of vertebrates . These cells are responsible for the production of red blood cells , white blood cells , and platelets . They are also responsible for the production of red blood cells , white blood
Aneuploidy is a condition in which two or more copies of the same chromosome are carried in a single cell . Aneuploidy is a condition in which two or more copies of the same chromosome are carried in a single cell . Aneuploidy is a condition in which two or more
Light is a key biological stimulus for most animals , and a rich diversity of photosensitive cells has evolved . These cells are responsible for the light-dependent chemical reactions in these cells , and all animal phyla , with the exception of sponges , employ photopigments composed of opsin-
Neuroblastoma , the most common cancer in humans , is caused by a mutation in a gene called Gsb , which encodes a protein called Gsb/Pax3
A protein called P2X , which is a member of the family of receptors known as trimeric ion channels , has been implicated in a wide range of diseases , including chronic and inflammatory pain .
Each cell in the body divides into two separate cells , called blastomere , at the end of the cell cycle . Each cell in the body divides into two separate cells , called blastomere , at the end of the cell cycle . Each cell in the body divides into two
The flagellar shaft of some bacteria , including several human pathogens , is encased in a membranous sheath of unknown function . While it has been hypothesized that the sheath may allow these bacteria to evade host responses to the immunogenic flagellin subunit , this unusual structural feature has remained
The genome of a plant is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells , each containing a single copy of DNA . Each cell contains a single copy of DNA , which is called a haploid or aneuploid . The genome of a plant is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells
The Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a virus that causes Epstein-Barr disease , a type of cancer that is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus infection . Epstein-Barr disease is a type of cancer that is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus infection . Epstein-Barr virus
A plant’s ability to adapt to changes in its environment depends on its ability to produce a wide array of metabolites , which are chemicals that help the plant to survive and grow .
Cancer is the most common form of cancer in the world . It is the most common form of cancer in humans . It is the most common form of cancer in animals . It is the most common form of cancer in humans . It is the most common form of cancer in animals
In our daily lives , we interact with others in a variety of ways . One of the most common ways we interact with others is through body gestures .
The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2 ) is a virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome in humans . Since its identification in 2019 , more than 135 million people have been infected , resulting in the deaths of more than 3 million people ( WHO , 2021
When a gene is mutated , it alters the phenotype of the cell . For example , when a gene is mutated , it alters the phenotype of the cell . For example , when a gene is mutated , it alters the phenotype of the cell . For example , when a
Heterostyly is a wide-spread floral adaptation to promote outbreeding , yet its genetic basis and evolutionary origin remain poorly understood . In Primula ( primroses ) , heterostyly is controlled by the S-locus supergene that determines the reciprocal arrangement of reproductive organs and
Cells in the hypothalamus , the part of the brain that controls the body’s hormones , release a hormone called GnRH , which is essential for normal reproductive function . In mammals , GnRH is released by neurons in the hypothalamus , the part of the brain that controls the
Pluripotency , the ability to develop into any type of cell in the body , is known as a pluripotent cell . However , it is not clear how the effects of pluripotency on mesoderm differentiation relate to its pro-pluripotency and anti-neural effects: are these
The centrosome in quiescent cells is composed of two structures called centrioles , which are made up of two different types of proteins . The two centrioles in quiescent cells differ in age , structure and function . The older of the two was assembled at least two cell cycles
In the developing brain , glial cells provide structural scaffolding and create physical barriers that compartmentalize synapses and limit diffusion of neurotransmitters . In the mature brain , glial cells provide structural scaffolding and create physical barriers that compartmentalize synapses and limit diffusion of neurotransmitters . In the
One of the most difficult forms of physical evidence to establish is the amount of time that has lapsed since death , the postmortem interval ( PMI ) . Establishing the PMI is critical to every death investigation because it facilitates the identification of victims and suspects , the acceptance or rejection of suspect alibis
Bilaterian animals , such as birds , mammals , and reptiles , are closely related to each other . However , many species of bilaterian animals are not closely related to each other .
The brain’s ability to learn and remember is dependent on the ability of neurons to communicate with each other . The brain’s ability to learn and remember is dependent on the ability of neurons to communicate with each other . The brain’s ability to learn and remember is dependent on the ability of neurons
Hypoxic conditions , such as stroke , heart attack and head trauma , can cause severe damage to the brain , which can lead to brain death .
Vector-borne diseases , such as malaria , dengue fever , and chikungunya , are transmitted by mosquitoes , birds , and other vertebrates . The most common species of mosquito , the Aedes aegypti , is found in tropical areas ,
The brain's ability to control the movement of the body , including the arms , legs , and hands , is closely linked to the activity of the motor cortex , the part of the brain that controls movement . The brain's ability to control the movement of the body ,
A protein called TRAF2 is an essential part of the immune system and plays a key role in the regulation of the body’s immune system . It is a member of a family of proteins called ubiquitin E3 . The ubiquitin E3 ligase is responsible for
In the brain , neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine and dopamine are released into the synapses between neurons . The neurotransmitters are stored in vesicles called synaptic vesicles ( SVs ) . These vesicles are made up of proteins called clathrin and clathrin
Levels of glucocorticoids , a hormone produced by the adrenal gland , have been linked to a number of health problems , including obesity , diabetes , and heart disease .
The protein kinase mammalian ( mTORC1 ) is one of the most important proteins in the cell . When amino acids are scarce , mTORC1 becomes inactive and this leads to a slow-down in protein synthesis and growth and an induction of autophagy , a process that generates nutrients from
The immune system is made up of a group of cells called T cells , which are able to recognize and respond to foreign antigens . The immune system is made up of a group of cells called T cells , which are able to recognize and respond to foreign antigens . The immune system is made up
One of the most common types of bacteria , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , uses a gene called acylhomoserinene ( T6SS) to control the activity of hundreds of genes . These genes control the activity of a number of other genes , such as the ability of bacteria to
The prefrontal cortex , the part of the brain responsible for learning and memory , and the hippocampus , the part of the brain responsible for spatial memory , are both located in the same region of the brain called the prefrontal cortex . The prefrontal cortex is located on the left side of the brain
RNA is the genetic material that makes up the DNA of all living organisms . It is made up of a sequence of molecules called RNA II , which contains the instructions for making proteins .
Skeletal muscle satellite cells , also known as myoblasts , are a type of stem cell that can differentiate into a variety of different types of cells , including muscle , bone , and fat cells . When a muscle is injured , these satellite cells die , leaving
Inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) is a disease that causes inflammation in the lining of the digestive system , which can lead to gastrointestinal problems , such as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis .
In many eukaryotes , small RNAs ( also known as piRNAs ) are the building blocks of many genes . These RNAs are the building blocks of many genes , including those involved in the production and translation of proteins . In many eukaryotes , small
Cerebellar neurons have long fascinated neuroscientists due to their elaborate dendritic arbors , and their high rates of spontaneous activity in vitro and in vivo . Being the sole output neuron of the cerebellar cortex , firing patterns of Purkinje neurons are functionally significant for motor co-ordination and motor
Cell membranes are made up of a layer of proteins called actin , which are attached to the surface of the cell membrane . The actin filaments are then stretched across the cell membrane to form a thin layer of proteins called thrin . The thrin-mediated endocytosis process ,
Macropinocytosis is a process that allows cells to take up large volumes of medium and extract nutrients and other useful molecules from it .
Cells divide into two distinct groups , called chromatids , which are made up of two separate sets of chromosomes . Each chromatid is made up of two identical twins , called chromatids , which are separated by a ring-shaped protein called cohesin . Cohesi
Being born late in the reproductive season may have important effects on growth and fattening , hence on winter survival and reproduction . For hibernators , being born late in the active season may have important effects on growth and fattening , hence on winter survival and reproduction .
The human brain is made up of hundreds of thousands of cells , each of which contains a unique set of genes that control the activity of the brain . One of these genes is called adenosine deaminases ( ADAR ) , and it is one of the most important genes in the brain
Influenza A viruses cause an infectious disease that constitutes an important public health problem and remains today an important cause of morbidity . These viruses cause an infectious disease that constitutes an important public health problem and remains today an important cause of morbidity .
Tissues change shape and form into a variety of different shapes and patterns as they grow and develop .
The backbone of a protein is made up of a chain of molecules called a heptad , which consists of at least two -helices , wound into superhelical bundles , and held together by a mostly hydrophobic core
The clathrin coat is a layer of protein that forms on the surface of the cell membrane . The clathrin coat is made up of a layer of proteins called clathrin-associated proteins ( SNAREs ) . These proteins help the clathrin coat to
Asthma is the most common non-communicable condition among children worldwide . In Africa , the prevalence of asthma appears to be increasing , particularly in urban areas , but the causes of this increase are not fully understood .
Adult zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) display a characteristic pattern of horizontal dark and light stripes on their bodies as well as on their anal fins and tailfins . Three types of pigment cells ( chromatophores ) are required to create this pattern . In the dark stripes of the
All living organisms detect chemicals in their environment , including bacteria , protozoans and fungi . All living organisms detect chemicals in their environment , including bacteria , protozoans and fungi . All living organisms detect chemicals in their environment , including bacteria , protozoans and fungi . All living
Asymptomatic malaria infections are not normally diagnosed or treated , posing a major hurdle for elimination efforts . One solution to this problem is mass drug administration ( MDA ) , with success depending on adequate population participation . Here , we present a detailed spatial and temporal analysis of malaria episodes and asymptomatic
Cell types have evolved over hundreds of millions of years , and have evolved in many different ways . For example , some species have evolved to produce different types of cells , while others have evolved to produce different types of tissues .
Human embryonic development is a highly orchestrated process that requires delicate coordination between organs that originate from different germ layers . As the two main organs within the chest cavity , the mesoderm-derived heart and endoderm-derived lung partake in have extensive mutual interaction that is essential for their proper morphogenesis ( Peng et
Bacteria , for example , are known for their ability to adapt to new and stressful environments . For example , the bacterium Escherichia coli , for example , is able to adapt to high levels of ethanol stress . However , it is also able to adapt to low levels of ethanol stress
All organisms need to be able to adapt to changes in their environment , such as climate change , to survive and thrive .
In the brain , there are two types of neurons : those that communicate with the outside world , and those that communicate with the outside world . These two types of neurons , called synapses , communicate with each other by sending signals from the outside world to the inside world . The
The enzyme Swi2/Snf2 is a member of a family of enzymes known as ATPases , which are responsible for a wide range of reactions in the cell , including the production of proteins .
Cyclic peptide natural products have evolved to exploit diverse protein targets , many of which control essential cellular processes . Cyclic peptide natural products have evolved to exploit diverse protein targets , many of which control essential cellular processes .
Cell membranes are made up of a layer of molecules called clathrin , which
One of the most common types of cancer in humans , colorectal cancer (CRC) is caused by mutations in a gene called Wnt ( Wnt/-catenin )
The initiation of movement from a stable posture is a central issue in neuroscience because of the need to overcome reflex-stabilizing mechanisms to enable motion . The initiation of movement from a stable posture is a central issue in neuroscience because of the need to overcome reflex-stabilizing mechanisms to enable motion ( von Holst and
Organisms across life have circadian clocks to temporally align biological activities with changes in the environment . Organisms across life have circadian clocks to temporally align biological activities with changes in the environment . Organisms across life have circadian clocks to temporally align biological activities with changes in the environment
Cells are able to adapt to changes in heavy-metal levels in the environment , such as the amount of copper , zinc , and cobalt they receive from the environment . The ability to adapt to changes in heavy-metal levels is described for all cells , as these elements are essential for a
Human cells are made up of many different types of cells , each with its own set of genes . For example , some of the most common human diseases , such as Alzheimer's disease , are caused by mutations in a single gene , while others , such as Parkinson's
A protein called ClpC is a member of a family of proteins called AAA+ ( ATPase associated with a variety of cellular activities ) . ClpC forms large two-helical assemblies that associate via head-to-head contacts between coiled-coil domains ( MDs ) .
Stem cells are a type of cell that can differentiate into many different types of cells , such as blood cells , skin cells , and muscle cells .
Neurons communicate with each other through a network of connections called the basal ganglia . The basal ganglia are made up of a network of neurons that work together to control the movement of the brain .
Microorganisms , including bacteria , fungi , and viruses , are a vital part of our daily lives . They help us to grow food , produce energy , and fight infections . However , many of these microbes do not grow well in laboratory conditions . For example ,
Tuberculous meningitis ( TBM ) is the most severe form of tuberculosis . Despite effective antimicrobial therapy , it results in 20–25% mortality in HIV-negative individuals and 40% mortality in HIV-positive individuals . A long-standing hypothesis that an excessive intracerebral inflammatory
In the brain , there are two types of cells called growth cones :
Hummingbirds , bats , and insects flap their wings to generate unsteady aerodynamic forces that lift their body into the air , which enables them to fly . Birds , bats , and insects flap their wings to generate unsteady aerodynamic forces that lift their body into the air , which enables them to
One of the most fundamental questions in evolutionary biology is whether the process of evolution is based on chance or contingency .
Genetic diversity is a common feature of human populations across the globe . It is important to understand the genetic basis of human phenotypes so that we can develop new ways to prevent and treat diseases .
Cell size varies widely among different organisms and cell types , and changes rapidly during early animal development when cell division occurs in the absence of growth
RNA molecules are the building blocks of DNA , and many of the genes that make up our DNA are regulated by molecules called riboswitches .
Excitatory glutamatergic synapses are the most common type of communication between neurons in the brain . Excitatory glutamatergic synapses are the most common type of communication between neurons in the brain . Excitatory glutamatergic synapses are the most common type of communication between neurons in
The human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( HIV-1 ) is one of the most common viruses in the world . The HIV-1 genome contains a large amount of genetic material , called RNA , which is the genetic material of the virus .
