elegans germline , reprograming germ cells into somatic cells requires chromatin perturbation . Here , we describe that such reprograming is facilitated by GLP-1/Notch signaling pathway . Through a combination of genetics , tissue-specific transcriptome analysis , and functional studies of candidate genes , we uncovered a possible explanation for this unexpected role of GLP-1/Notch . We propose that GLP-1/Notch promotes reprograming by activating specific genes , silenced by the Polycomb repressive complex 2  , and identify the conserved histone demethylase UTX-1 as a crucial GLP-1/Notch target facilitating reprograming . These findings have wide implications , ranging from development to diseases associated with abnormal Notch signaling . The Notch signaling pathway is a highly conserved and widespread signaling mechanism  , which has been implicated in key cell-fate decisions such as the decision between proliferation and differentiation  . Notch signaling has also been implicated in cellular reprograming . Upon inhibition of Notch signaling , the oncogenic genes KLF4 and cMyc become dispensable for the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells  from mouse and human keratinocytes  . In this setting , Notch inhibits reprograming . Conversely , Notch signaling promotes transdifferentiation of pancreatic acinar cells to ductal cells  , or the conversion of hepatocytes into biliary cells in liver primary malignancy intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma   . Notch signaling can also affect reprograming in normal development . elegans , signaling through the GLP-1 and LIN-12 Notch receptors impedes reprograming during embryogenesis and , during larval development , signaling through LIN-12 is required for the conversion of a rectal epithelial cell into a motorneuron  . In this model , germ cells can be directly reprogrammed into neurons by depleting specific chromatin modifiers such as LIN-53  or components of PRC2 , and by concomitant overexpression of the transcription factor CHE-1 , which induces glutamatergic neuronal fate in a process which we refer to as Germ cell Conversion   . Here , we identify the Notch signaling pathway as a critical player in this reprograming model . This was unanticipated , since signaling through the Notch receptor GLP-1  from the somatic gonadal niche is known to maintain germline stem cell/progenitor fate  . To understand this novel , reprograming-promoting role of GLP-1Notch , we combined genetics with tissue-specific expression profiling . We identified genes regulated by GLP-1Notch , including genes recently shown to maintain the germline stem/progenitor cells  . Additionally , and unexpectedly , we found that many genes activated by GLP-1Notch signaling were also repressed by the cell fate-stabilizing chromatin regulator PRC2 . We show that GLP-1Notch and PRC2 have an antagonistic effect on germ cell-fate decisions and demonstrate co-regulation of their common target , utx-1 . Importantly , UTX-1 is a histone demethylase known to erase the gene-silencing methylation of histone H3 dependent on PRC2  . Thus , we propose that the GLP-1Notch–dependent induction of UTX-1 facilitates reprograming by alleviating PRC2-mediated repression of alternative cell fates . Germ cells can be converted into neuronal cells in intact C . This GeCo phenotype can be followed in living animals by monitoring a reporter GFP expressed from the gcy-5 promoter , which otherwise is induced in glutamatergic ASE neurons  . In contrast to the spontaneous teratomatous differentiation of meiotic germ cells , observed in the absence of specific RNA-binding proteins  , GeCo is preferentially observed in the pre-meiotic , proliferating germ cells  . Consistently , removing the proliferating germ cells , by inhibiting GLP-1Notch signaling , prevents GeCo  . However , because the proliferating germ cells were eliminated , these experiments did not address a possible direct effect of GLP-1Notch signaling on GeCo . We began addressing this issue by examining the gonads of animals carrying the gain-of-function glp-1 allele   . These gonads are filled with proliferating germ cells and , upon depleting LIN-53 and overexpressing CHE-1 , we observed that significantly more germ cells converted to ASE neurons  . We refer to this enhanced GeCo as 'GeCo+' . Detailed quantification revealed that the GeCo+ gonads contained more than twice the number of converted cells  . To confirm that the GeCo enhancement depends on the canonical Notch signaling pathway , rather than an independent function of the GLP-1Notch receptor , we RNAi-depleted the transcriptional effector of GLP-1Notch signaling , LAG-1  . We exposed animals only after hatching to lag-1 RNAi in order to avoid sterility , which is caused when animals are subjected to lag-1 RNAi earlier  . RNAi-mediated knock-down of lag-1 strongly inhibited GeCo  . Importantly , under these experimental conditions , we did not observe any obvious reduction of germ cell numbers  , suggesting a proliferation-independent effect of GLP-1Notch signaling on cell-fate conversion . To investigate this further , we tested GeCo efficiency on germ cells proliferating independently of GLP-1Notch signaling . We took advantage of mutants in which , in the absence of two meiosis/differentiation-promoting factors GLD-1 and GLD-2 , germ cells proliferate independently of GLP-1Notch  . Specifically , we examined GeCo in the loss-of-function gld-1  gld-2  mutants , which carried either wild-type glp-1 or the loss-of-function glp-1  allele  . In contrast to efficient GeCo observed in the gld-1  gld-2  gonads , GeCo was strongly diminished in the gld-1  gld-2  ; glp-1  gonads , despite the ongoing germ cell proliferation  . Counting the number of germ cells in these gonads revealed only a slight difference  , suggesting that the strong enhancement of GeCo by GLP-1Notch signaling cannot be explained by the increased number of germ cells  . Since it has been proposed that dividing cells have a higher propensity for cellular reprograming  , we also tested whether blocking the cell cycle would affect the observed GeCo enhancement in glp-1  gonads . Blocking the cell cycle by HU did not diminish the GeCo+ phenotype  . Combined , these results suggest that GLP-1Notch enhances GeCo independently from its role in promoting germ cell proliferation . GLP-1Notch signaling promotes reprograming of germ cells . GLP-1Notch enhances germ cell conversion  into neuronal-like cells . glp-1  is a temperature-sensitive gain-of-function allele of the Notch receptor . Animals were subjected to either mock  or lin-53 RNAi . GeCo+ indicates animals that displayed a strongly enhanced GeCo phenotype . The cartoons depicting the GeCo and GeCo+ phenotypes are on the top right . The gonads are shaded in grey and GFP-positive converted germ cells are green . Fractions of animals displaying GeCo and GeCo+ are indicated below . The transcriptional effector of the GLP-1Notch signaling pathway , LAG-1 , is required for the GLP-1Notch–mediated enhancement of GeCo . GeCo is diminished upon the depletion of LAG-1 . GLP-1Notch signaling enhances GeCo independently from germ cell proliferation . Shown are DAPI-stained gonads of glp-1  animals , expressing CHE-1–induced nGFP , treated with either mock or lin-53 RNAi . Germ cells were counted from the DTC  to the turn of the gonad arm  . 15 gonad arms per condition were counted . While greatly inhibiting GeCo , lag-1 RNAi did not change the number of germ cells . GLP-1Notch enhances GeCo independently from proliferation . The first panel on the left shows a control , heterozygous  gld-1 gld-2/++; glp-1/+ animal . The other panels show the homozygous gld-1  gld-2  mutants , carrying either a loss-of-function  or a wild-type  allele of glp-1 . Despite proliferating , germ cells in the gld-1 gld-2; glp-1 gonads have lost the ability to undergo GeCo . Quantification of GeCo in glp-1  and lag-1 RNAi animals . Quantification of GeCo+ phenotype upon RNAi against lin-53 in glp-1  mutants . Quantification of GeCo dependency on LAG-1 . Quantification of germ cells in glp-1  gonads with our without lag-1 RNAi treatment . Quantification of GeCo in different genetic backgrounds with highly proliferative germlines upon RNAi against lin-53 . Figure 1—figure supplement 1A source data: Quantification of gfp-positive germ cells . Figure 1—figure supplement 2 source data: Quantification of germ cells in different genetic backgrounds with highly proliferative germlines . Figure 1—figure supplement 3A source data: Quantification of GeCo after cell cycle block with HU treatment . glp-1  gonads contain more than twice the number of converted cells which display neuronal characteristics . For the quantification of gcy-5::gfp-positive cells per gonadal arm only the GeCo category of wt vs . glp-1  was used because GeCo+ animals already show an extensive area of the gonad filled with gcy-5::gfp-positive cells with usually >100 cells/gonad making reliable counting impossible . Notably , animals with a seemingly similar extend of GeCo in wt vs . glp-1  show a clear increase of gcy-5::gfp-positive cells per gonadal arm from approx . 10 in wt to > 30 in glp-1  . n  = 75 gonaldal arms , n ( glp-1  ) = 221 gonadal arms . The background of the loss of function allele glp-1  leads to a significant decrease in GeCo as shown previously  . A magnified view of gcy-5::gfp-positive  cells , in a GeCo+ gonad from a glp-1  animal . Germ cell numbers are similar between gld-1 gld-2 double and gld-1 gld-2; glp-1 triple mutants . DAPI-stained gonads of gld-1  gld-2  or gld-1  gld-2  ; glp-1  mutants , carrying the hsp::che-1 and gcy-5::gfp transgenes . The gonads were imaged by fluorescent microscopy using Z-stack acquisitions . Germ cells from the DTCs  to the turn of the gonad arm  were counted . Below:15 gonad arms per condition of L4 animals were counted . The numbers of germ cells differ only slightly  in the double mutant vs . Blocking the cell cycle with hydroxyurea does not inhibit GeCo+ . We used hydroxyurea  treatment for 5 hr to chemically block the cell cycle , which makes germ cells arrest in the S phase of the cell cycle . This arrest does not diminish the GeCo+ phenotype in glp-1  gonads upon lin-53 RNAi and che-1  . The right panel shows examples of GeCo+ displaying animals based on gcy-5::gfp  for HU-untreated  and HU-treated  animals . The gonads were stained for EdU incorporation . Dashed lines outline gonads . Asterisks indicate distal tips of gonads . The gonads of glp-1  gf animals , which were treated with HU for 12 hr and stained with DAPI and H3Ser10ph  antibody . After 12 hr of HU treatment , the gonads contained , as expected , enlargement nuclei   . Asterisks indicate distal tips of gonads , dashed lines outline gonad . 007 To understand the effects of GLP-1Notch on GeCo , we set out to identify genes regulated by GLP-1Notch signaling in germ cells . To conduct the analysis in morphologically similar tissue , we again took advantage of the gld-1 gld-2 double mutants that , combined with either loss-of-function or gain-of-function glp-1 alleles , have morphologically similar gonads , filled with proliferating , undifferentiated germ cells   . We combined gld-1  gld-2  mutations with either the temperature-sensitive loss-of-function  glp-1 allele  , or the temperature-sensitive gain-of-function  glp-1 allele   . Because GLD-1 and GLD-2 regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level only , we expected that transcriptionally regulated GLP-1Notch targets could be identified in this background . To analyze gene expression , gonads were dissected from animals grown at the restrictive temperature in two independent experiments , and transcripts were analyzed with tiling arrays  . We identified around 100 transcripts that were differentially expressed between the gld-1 gld-2; glp-1   and gld-1 gld-2; glp-1   gonads  . Most differentially expressed transcripts were upregulated in the ‘Notch ON’ gonads , indicating a predominantly activating role of GLP-1Notch in germ cells . For simplicity , we will refer to the transcripts upregulated at least two fold in the Notch ON gonads as ‘Notch–activated’ . Some Notch-activated genes , such as sel-8/Mastermind , lst-1 , and epn-1/Epsin , have been implicated in Notch signaling in other cell types  . However , it remains possible that , rather than being direct GLP-1Notch targets , some of the Notch-activated genes were upregulated as an indirect consequence of increased GLP-1Notch signaling . GLP-1Notch and PRC2 regulate common targets and are functionally connected . Notch-activated genes are biased for the sex chromosome linkage . Left: Changes in transcript abundance in the ‘Notch ON’ versus ‘OFF’ dissected gonads  were analyzed by microarrays . Transcripts upregulated at least 2-fold in the ‘Notch ON’ gonads are marked in red , those downregulated at least 2-fold in blue . Right: 5426 genes can be considered expressed in the gonad , based on the bimodal distribution of expression values . In contrast , nearly half  of the expressed and Notch-activated transcripts are X-linked  . GLP-1Notch and PRC2 interact genetically . Left: DAPI-stained gonads from animals of the indicated genotypes . The mes-2  M+Z- single mutant gonads have wild-type appearance at 20°C . The glp-1  gain-of-function mutants have an almost wild-type appearance at this temperature , except for an extended proliferative zone in the gonad , referred to as 'distal tumor' . At the same temperature , mes-2  M+Z-; glp-1  double mutants developed germline tumors in 32/32 of the examined gonads . However , while the single mutants contain oocytes with characteristically condensed chromosomes in the proximal gonads  , the proximal gonads of the double mutants harbor proliferative germ cells  . GLP-1Notch and PRC2 target the same genes on the X chromosomes . Notch-activated genes  are marked in red . The overlap between transcripts upregulated by GLP-1Notch and transcripts upregulated by the loss of CePRC2 is highly significant , particularly for the X-linked genes . The significance of the correlation was measured by hypergeometric distribution; X-linked Notch-activated vs . 31e-31; X-linked Notch-activated vs . 41e-25; autosomal Notch-activated vs . 47e-22; autosomal Notch-activated vs . Microarray results of differentially expressed genes in Notch ON/OFF gonads . Figure 2—figure supplement 3 source data: Quantification of germlines with wild-type morphology versus germlines with tumors upon germline-autonomous RNAi against genetic interactors of PRC2 . Examining transcriptional effects of GLP-1Notch signaling . GLP-1Notch signaling counteracts the meiosis-promoting activity of several RNA binding proteins , of which GLD-1 and -2 are indicated . Mutants that were used in this study: while the loss-of-function  alleles of glp-1 cause the loss of germ cells , gain-of-function  alleles result in a constitutive proliferation of germ cells . However , in the absence of the meiosis-promoting GLD-1 and GLD-2 proteins , germ cells continue to proliferate in the absence of GLP-1Notch activity . Three representative gonads of Notch ON: gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1  and Notch OFF: gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1  animals are shown after dissection and DAPI staining . The central planes of the gonads were imaged . For each genetic background , germ cells in the entire gonad of 10 dissected gonads were counted . The quantification below revealed that the numbers of germ cells in both backgrounds are not changed . Analysis of Notch-activated genes . Colors correspond to fold-changes detected by microarrays  , by RT-qPCR on genetically identical gonads  , or by RT-qPCR on gonads with a different loss-of-function glp-1 allele , q175  . The table displays the numbers and fractions of genes on the different chromosomes , and the distributions of the Notch-activated genes . The cutoff between 'not expressed' and 'expressed' genes was set according to the bimodal distribution of expression values in the Notch ON and OFF arrays . The PRC2 component MES-6 and most enhancers/suppressors of glp-1  induced tumors appear to interact genetically with GLP-1Notch signaling in a germline-autonomous manner . 'n' indicates the number of DAPI-stained gonads scored for each column . We observed that , for an unknown reason , the rrf-1  ; glp-1  double mutants were less likely to produce tumors at the semi-permissive temperature of 20°C . Nonetheless , the double mutant strain reacts to enhancers , suppressors , and depletion of PRC2 components in a similar manner as the glp-1  single mutant strain , with the exception of mbk-1 and B0416 . 5 RNAi . Global levels of H3K27me3 are unaffected by neither loss-of-function nor gain-of-function mutations in glp-1 . Stainings of wild-type , gain-of-function glp-1  , Notch ON ( gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1  ) and Notch OFF ( gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1  ) gonads with antibodies against H3K27me3 performed on whole worms  or dissected gonads  . Asterisks indicate distal tips of gonads , dashed lines outline gonad . 013 To demonstrate that Notch-activated genes are functionally relevant for germ cell proliferation , we performed RNAi knockdown of Notch-activated genes  on animals carrying the gain-of-function glp-1  allele , and screened for enhancement or suppression of the tumorous gonad phenotype  . Knocking down some of the Notch-activated genes suppressed the tumorous phenotype , which agrees with predominantly proliferation-promoting role of GLP-1Notch . Interestingly , knocking down a smaller subset of the Notch-activated genes enhanced the tumor  , suggesting that some of the Notch-activated genes may counteract proliferation . To test this , we RNAi-depleted selected candidates in the rrf-1  mutant background , which is permissive for RNAi in the germline but deficient in RNAi in many  somatic tissues  . Strikingly , we noticed that Notch-activated genes were enriched on the X-chromosome , the C . 45% of the Notch-activated genes were X-linked , which is four-fold more than expected by chance  . When analyzing only genes with higher than baseline germline expression values , the disproportional X-linkage of Notch-activated genes was even more striking ( fifteen times more than expected by chance  . elegans PRC2  . Thus , the X chromosome bias among Notch-activated genes suggested a possible antagonistic relationship between GLP-1Notch and PRC2 . elegans PRC2 consists of MES-2 , -3 , and -6  and levels of the corresponding transcripts were essentially not altered by GLP-1Notch signaling ( mes-2: absolute fold change  -1 . 3747; mes-3: fc 1 . 003; mes-6: fc 1 . To test for a functional relationship between GLP-1Notch and PRC2 , we examined genetic interactions between GLP-1 and PRC2 mutants . At 20°C , both the temperature-sensitive gain-of-function glp-1  and the homozygous loss-of-function mes-2  mutants , derived from heterozygous mothers providing maternal MES-2  , were viable and produced gonads with nearly wild-type appearance . The double mes-2 M+Z-; glp-1  mutants , however , displayed distal and proximal tumors at the same temperature  . PRC2 and GLP-1Notch thus interact functionally , and they appear to do so in a germ cell autonomous manner  . Given the striking enrichment of Notch-activated genes on the X chromosome , and the genetic interaction between PRC2 and GLP-1Notch , we speculated that GLP-1Notch and PRC2 act on similar genes . To determine whether Notch-activated genes are also PRC2-repressed , we first determined putative PRC2 targets by expression analyses on isolated wild-type , M+Z- mes-2 or mes-6 mutant gonads  . Consistent with the joint function of MES-2 and MES-6 in the PRC2 complex , a very similar set of genes was upregulated upon the loss of either protein ( Figure 2C; Figure 2—source data 1; henceforth ‘PRC2 repressed’ genes; also see  . Indeed , those PRC2-repressed genes overlapped strongly with Notch-activated genes , particularly those linked to the X chromosome . Nearly all of the X-linked Notch-activated genes were also derepressed upon the loss of PRC2  . This is consistent with the observed genetic interaction and suggests that increased GLP-1Notch signaling can induce expression of specific PRC2-repressed genes . This activation of the PRC2-repressed genes is not due to a global loss of the repressive tri-methylation of Histone H3 at lysine residue 27  , since , upon examining gonads of different GLP-1Notch mutants , we observed no global loss of H3K27me3 in the germline  . Germ cell conversion to neurons can be triggered not only by LIN-53 depletion but also by the depletion of PRC2  . Potentially , the depletion of LIN-53 could facilitate reprograming by inhibiting PRC2 , since the depletion of LIN-53 results in a global loss of H3K27me3 in the germline  . Considering the antagonistic relation between GLP-1Notch and PRC2 on cell proliferation and gene regulation , we wondered whether GeCo triggered by the depletion of PRC2 would be sensitive to Notch signaling . Indeed , GeCo was strongly enhanced in PRC2-depleted  animals , when they also carried the gain-of-function glp-1  allele  . Moreover , similar to the LIN-53–depleted gld-1  gld-2  ; glp-1  gonads  , the loss of GLP-1 effectively prevented GeCo in PRC2–depleted gld-1  gld-2  ; glp-1  gonads  . Together , these results suggest that GLP-1Notch stimulates GeCo in PRC2-compromised gonads . GLP-1Notch enhances reprograming upon the depletion of PRC2 . Notch and PRC2 genetically interact in GeCo . Left: Fluorescent micrographs of glp-1  gain-of-function mutants expressing CHE-1–induced neuronal GFP . The animals were subjected to control RNAi or RNAi against PRC2 components  , as indicated . Increased GLP-1Notch signaling enhanced the GeCo+ phenotype upon PRC2 depletion . Control RNAi  for each genetic background did not result in any GeCo  . GLP-1Notch is required for GeCo in PRC2-depleted animals independently from proliferation . The animals were subjected to RNAi as indicated on the left . The first column shows heterozygous , the other two homozygous animals carrying the loss of function alleles gld-1  , gld-2  and , in the central panels , glp-1  . The animals were subjected to control RNAi or RNAi against PRC2 components  . In the absence of GLP-1Notch , depletion of PRC2 components did not induce GeCo . Quantification of GeCo upon PRC2 depletion . Quantification of GeCo+ phenotype upon RNAi against PRC2 subunits in glp-1  mutants . Quantification of GeCo in different genetic backgrounds with highly proliferative germlines upon RNAi against PRC2 subunits . 015 To determine how GLP-1Notch might counteract PRC2 , we depleted candidate Notch-activated genes  , and examined GeCo efficiency  . The strongest suppression of the GeCo+ and GeCo phenotype was observed upon the depletion of utx-1 , which also suppressed mes-3 RNAi-mediated GeCo+ in glp-1  gonads  . 6 and the aldolase ortholog aldo-1 , also suppressed GeCo+ , albeit less efficiently  . Because UTX-1 was suggested to effect gonadal development by functioning in the somatic gonad  , we re-examined GeCo efficiency upon utx-1 RNAi in the rrf-1  background . Importantly , in rrf-1 mutants , RNAi is impaired in the somatic gonad , including the distal tip cell  , which constitutes the germline stem cell niche  . Because the suppression of GeCo+ upon utx-1 RNAi was observed also in the rrf-1 background , UTX-1 does not seem to enhance GeCo by functioning in the somatic gonad  . Furthermore , different genetic backgrounds and RNAi agains utx-1 do not affect the expression levels of CHE-1 in the germline  . The H3K27 demethylase UTX-1 is required for GeCo enhancement . UTX-1 is critical for GeCo enhancement . Candidate Notch-activated genes , selected from Supplementary file 2 with available RNAi clones , were assayed for a role in GeCo in glp-1  animals , expressing CHE-1–induced nGFP and treated with lin-53 RNAi . While the additional depletion of utx-1 had the strongest impact on GeCo+ and GeCo , the depletion of C07G1 . White dashed line outline the animal body , yellow lines outline gonadal areas with GeCo . P-values for GeCo+ were calculated using Student's t-test: p1=0 , 000013; p2=0 , 026; p3=0 , 021; p4>0 , 1 . As in A , but RNAi was performed against jmjd-1 . 2  ; jmjd-3 . 1 , jmjd-3 . 2 , and jmjd-3 . 3 ,  ; and jmjd-2  . Only RNAi against jmjd-1 . 2 suppresses GeCo+ , though to a lesser degree compared to utx-1 RNAi . P-values for GeCo+ were calculated using Student's t-test: p1=0 , 0042; p2=0 , 035; p3>0 , 2 . Quantification of GeCo upon double RNAi against lin-53 and Notch-activated genes . Quantification of GeCo+ upon RNAi against lin-53 and Notch-activated genes . Quantification of GeCo+ upon RNAi against lin-53 and Histone demethylases . Figure 4—figure supplement 1A source data: Quantification of GeCo+ upon RNAi against lin-53 and utx-1 with and without rrf-1  background . UTX-1 is required for the GeCo+ enhancement upon the depletion of PRC2 . Adult glp-1  animals treated with lin-53 or mes-3 RNAi were additionally subjected to either control or utx-1 RNAi . Depletion of utx-1 strongly suppressed the GeCo+ phenotype . Suppression upon utx-1 co-depletion with lin-53 is also detectable in the rrf-1  background which is permissive for RNAi in the germline but not in the somatic gonad and the DTC . Right: quantification: n = 715 were scored for lin-53; utx-1 RNAi; n = 500 for mes-3; utx-1 RNAi and n = 270 were scored for lin-53; utx-1 RNAi in rrf-1  . anti-HA antibody staining for the 3xHA-tagged CHE-1 protein , which is being induced after heat-shock treatment in the different genetic backgrounds: glp-1  ; otIs305  ntIs1  treated with our without RNAi against lin-53 and utx-1 . 018 Importantly , utx-1 encodes a conserved H3K27me3 demethylase , an enzyme erasing the repressive mark deposited by PRC2  , potentially explaining how its depletion impairs GeCo efficiency . elegans , which prompted us to test whether depletion of these demethylases might have an effect on GeCo in the glp-1  gonads . We RNAi-depleted jmjd-1 . 1 , jmjd-3 . 2 , and jmjd-3 . Only the depletion of JMJD-1 . 2 suppressed GeCo+ significantly , though to a lesser degree than the depletion of UTX-1  . The suppression of GeCo by the depletion of UTX-1 or JMJD-1 . 2 stresses the importance of counteracting PRC2 in reprograming . However , only the expression of utx-1 is activated by the GLP-1Notch signaling , suggesting that it is the activity of UTX-1 which is key for the reprograming dependent on GLP-1Notch signaling . The inhibition of GeCo enhancement upon utx-1 RNAi in the rrf-1 background suggested that UTX-1 functions in the germline . To test the potential expression of utx-1 in the germline , we constructed a strain expressing single copy-integrated , FLAG and GFP-tagged , functional UTX-1  . To examine the potential transcriptional regulation of utx-1 expression by GLP-1Notch and PRC2 , we also created a strain expressing GFP-tagged histone H2B from the utx-1 promoter  , under the control of an unregulated  3’UTR . With both the UTX-1 fusion protein and the putx-1 reporter , we expected expression patterns similar to that of other reported GLP-1Notch target genes  . Among these , lst-1 and sygl-1 account for the role of GLP-1Notch in stem cell maintenance , and both genes are expressed in the distal-most stem cells/progenitors  . By contrast , both the UTX-1 fusion protein and the putx-1 reporter were little or not expressed in the distal-most , proliferative part of the germline  . Concomitantly with progression through meiosis , their expression increased toward the proximal end of the gonad  . When examining the existing mRNA hybridization patterns of Notch-activated and PRC2-repressed genes  , we noticed that half of these  are similarly expressed in the medial and/or proximal , but not the distal-most , gonads  , arguing against direct transcriptional activation of these genes by GLP-1Notch in the wild type . Nevertheless , in agreement with the expression analyses , we observed increased expression of the putx-1 reporter in PRC2-depleted gonads; this increase occurred throughout the gonad , including the distal-most region  . In situ hybridization for the endogenous utx-1 transcript also showed increased expression throughout the gonad in the absence of PRC2  . Moreover , expression of the putx-1 reporter was higher upon increased GLP-1Notch activity in glp-1  mutants , including the distal-most region where , in the wild type , utx-1 is little or not expressed  . Importantly , we found that the activation of the utx-1 promoter by Notch signaling was depended on the putative LAG-1/CSL binding sites within the promoter  , as deleting those sites reduced reporter expression by approximately one-fourth  . The interaction between LAG-1 and utx-1 was also tested by chromatin immunoprecipitation  , performed on a strain expressing FLAG-tagged LAG-1 in either wild-type or glp-1  background  ; the previously identified GLP-1Notch targets , lst-1 and sygl-1  , served as positive controls for the ChIP . Expectedly , we observed the enhanced binding of LAG-1 to the utx-1 promoter , indicating that utx-1 is a transcriptional target of GLP-1Notch signaling . Summarizing , based on the observations in mutant backgrounds , PRC2 and GLP-1Notch signaling have antagonistic effects on utx-1 transcription . However , in wild type , the endogenous levels of GLP-1Notch signaling are apparently insufficient to overcome PRC2-mediated repression of utx-1 in the distal-most part of the gonad . UTX-1 is regulated by GLP-1Notch and PRC2 . Expression of utx-1 is regulated by PRC2 and GLP-1Notch . Top: dissected gonads expressing a GFP reporter , driven from the utx-1 promoter  , subjected to the indicated RNAi  , crossed into the indicated genetic background  or carrying the indicated mutations in the reporter gene  . The numbers of analyzed gonads were as follows: n = 44 for wild-type reporter; n = 36 for glp-1  ; n = 55 for wild-type reporter on control RNAi; n = 48 for mes-2  ; n = 15 for mes-3  ; n = 29 for mes-6  , and n = 20 for the LAG-1 binding sites deleted reporter . The putx-1::GFP reporter is repressed by PRC2 . In all mes-depleted gonads , the reporter was de-repressed in proliferating cells  as well as in more proximal gonadal regions  . The putx-1::GFP reporter is upregulated by GLP-1Notch . In the gain-of-function glp-1  mutant , the reporter was strongly derepressed in the proliferating cells in the distal-most gonad  . LAG-1 binds the utx-1 promoter . Lysates of animals expressing FLAG-tagged LAG-1  , either in wild-type or glp-1  background , were subjected to ChIP-qPCR analysis of the indicated genes . Interestingly , LAG-1 binding in the glp-1  gain-of-function background is stronger to the utx-1 promoter than to the reported GLP-1Notch targets lst-1 and sygl-1 . The functional utx-1 transgene is expressed in the same pattern as a GFP reporter coupled to the utx-1 promoter . Shown is an adult with an outlined gonad . The full-length GFP-tagged functional UTX-1  is repressed in the distal , proliferative part . This expression pattern is identical with the pattern seen in the utx-1 promoter reporter strains  . The endogenous utx-1 mRNA is upregulated in the absence of the PRC2-component MES-6 . Shown are representative in-situ hybridisations against endogenous utx-1 mRNA in dissected gonads . In M+Z- mes-6  mutants , utx-1 is upregulated throughout the gonads compared to the control wild-type gonads . As negative control , lysate N2 or glp-1  worm lysates , which do not express the recombinant target protein , were used . Lysates of worms expressing the recombinant target protein in N2 or glp-1  background were incubated with specific  and unspecific  antibodies coupled to µMACS beads . elegans germline , GLP-1Notch signaling is essential for maintaining a pool of undifferentiated stem cells/progenitors . Here , we report an unexpected role of GLP-1Notch signaling in promoting cell fate reprograming . To understand this phenomenon , we identified genes activated upon increased GLP-1Notch signaling . While the identified genes include the physiological GLP-1Notch targets , sygl-1 and lst-1 , many other genes , including utx-1 , appear to be only weakly or not expressed in the distal-most region of the wild-type gonad , where both sygl-1 and lst-1 are induced by GLP-1Notch  . Thus , the wild-type levels of GLP-1Notch signaling are either insufficient to induce expression of many potential target genes  , or their expression is controlled by additional mechanisms , perhaps similarly to lip-1 mRNA , which , while induced by GLP-1Notch , is post-transcriptionally degraded in the distal-most gonad  . In addition to its major proliferation-promoting function , GLP-1Notch has been suggested to have a lesser role in promoting germ cell differentiation  . Some of the identified Notch-activated genes appear to promote germ cell differentiation , potentially explaining the proposed differentiation-promoting function of GLP-1Notch . However , whether these genes are activated by GLP-1Notch and promote differentiation under physiological conditions remains to be determined . Many of the Notch-activated genes are repressed by PRC2 , suggesting that the expression of these genes is determined by the crosstalk between the extrinsic intercellular signaling pathway , Notch , and the intrinsic chromatin modifier PRC2 . Indeed , at least in the case of utx-1 , PRC2 appears to prevent its inappropriate expression in the distal-most gonad , which , nevertheless , can be overcome upon increased GLP-1Notch signaling . Our findings suggest that GLP-1Notch antagonizes PRC2 , at least in part , by stimulating expression of the H3K27 demethylase UTX-1 , which is essential for the enhancement of cellular reprograming . Previously , it was suggested that UTX-1 influences the germline by functioning in the somatic gonad  . However , by using the rrf-1 background , which displays defective RNAi in the somatic gonad , including the DTC  , we found that the reprograming-promoting role of UTX-1 is unlikely to depend on its function in the somatic gonad . Although we cannot fully exclude the possibility that the reprograming-facilitating role of UTX-1 depends on its expression in another somatic tissue  , the germline expression of UTX-1 reported here suggests a germline-autonomous function . Consistent with this hypothesis , manipulating either PRC2 or GLP-1Notch affected the germline expression of utx-1 . 2  , is required for enhanced reprograming . Similar to UTX-1 , JMJD-1 . The reprograming-promoting role of JMJD-1 . UTX-1 orthologs in other species contribute to tissue-specific chromatin signatures , for example during myogenesis or in cardiac development  , and have been implicated in germ-cell and somatic reprograming  . Together with our data , these findings underscore the importance of UTX-1 in cellular reprograming . Here , we suggest that one way the activity of UTX-1 may be stimulated to promote reprograming is through its Notch signaling-dependent transcriptional activation . Interestingly , an antagonistic relationship between Notch and PRC2 has also been observed in T-cell leukemia  . The enhancer-suppressor screen on Notch targets was performed by feeding the animals with bacteria containing RNAi clones from the Ahringer and Vidal RNAi libraries . The percentage of adult animals with the germline tumor phenotype was scored . To test germ-cell autonomy , RNAi clones that induced significant suppression or enhancement in either setting were re-tested in a strain carrying the glp-1   allele and , additionally the rrf-1   mutation , which impairs RNAi primarily in the soma  . Progeny was scored for enhancement or suppression of the germline tumorous phenotype at the young adult stage by DAPI staining of dissected gonads and scoring gonads as either wild-type , as containing a proximal or distal tumor but still some eggs , or as completely tumorous . Reprograming experiments were carried out as F1-RNAi . Used RNAi clones are described in the Supplementary file 3B . The genotype of the worms used for germ cell reprograming assays is BAT28  . To induce the Glp phenotype in glp-1  , the animals were shifted to room temperature 9 hrs before the heat-shock . The RNAi screen was performed as described above . Fifty gonads per analyzed genotype in triplicates were dissected in M9 containing levamisole . In the case of the Notch ON/OFF dataset quantile normalization was performed on the level of transcripts . Counting of germ cells within the range from the DTC to the turn of gonadal arms of glp-1  ; hsp::che-1; gcy-5::gfp animals treated with either mock or lin-53 RNAi was performed using the Z-stacks . Micromanager was used to control the Z-stack levels and the ImageJ plugin for cell counting for scoring the number of germ cells . Germ cell counts in gonads of Notch ON: gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1  and Notch OFF: gld-2  gld-1  ; glp-1   and germline tumor phenotype in glp-1  and glp-1  ; rrf-1  were scored after dissection , formaldehyde fixation and DAPI staining . For Notch ON and Notch OFF mutants , the central plane of the gonads was imaged and germ cells in the entire dissected gonad were counted using the CellCounter plugin with ImageJ . For each of the two strains , germ cells in the entire gonad of 15 dissected gonads were counted . Stainings for H3K27me3 on dissected gonads were performed using anti-H3K27me3 from Millipore  on dissected gonads . The transcriptional reporter gene putx-1::gfp-h2b  was constructed from the 1302 bp putative promoter region of the gene utx-1 ( human UTX  homolog - 1 ) fused to sequences encoding for GFP-H2B and the ubiquitously expressed tbb-2 3’UTR using the Gateway Reporter Cloning System  . The reporter gene putx-1::gfp-h2b  was constructed with the following primers: putx-attB4: GGGGACAACTTTGTATAGAAAAGTTGGGATTTTATCTTCATCGGACCTG putx-attB1 : GGGGACTGCTTTTTTGTACAAACTTGTGGCGGTGTGAGAAGCGATAC The full-length functional transgene putx-1::flag-gfp-utx-1::utx-1 3’UTR  was constructed with the following primers: utx-1+3UTR+attB2 L ggggacagctttcttgtacaaagtggACGACGAATCAGAACCTCTGCCGGAGGAGCGTCATgtaag utx-1+3UTR+attB3 R ggggacaactttgtataataaagttgaatgcggatactgccttctc The functional UTX-1 transgene putx-1::flag-gfp-tev::utx-1::utx-1 3’utr  contains the same promoter as the transcriptional reporter , the full-length utx-1 genomic sequence as well as the endogenous 3’UTR , and was equipped with N-terminal GFP , FLAG , and TEV tags . The rrrSi189 transgene is functional , as it rescues the utx-1 mutant  . For GFP quantification , gonads were dissected from live animals in M9 buffer containing levamisole and mounted to glass microscopy slides  . GFP intensities were normalized to the picture background and corrected with the average autofluorescences measured in wild type  gonads at the corresponding temperatures . The numbers of analyzed gonads were as follows: n = 44 for wild-type reporter; n = 36 for glp-1  ; n = 55 for wild-type reporter on control RNAi; n = 48 for mes-2  ; n = 15 for mes-3  ; n = 29 for mes-6  , and n = 20 for LAG-1 binding sites deleted reporter . Alleles used were glp-1  and mes-2  . Worms were grown at the semi-permissive temperature of 20°C and gonads were dissected and DAPI-stained shortly after the L4-young adult transition . 
We show that the adaptor protein , SKAP2 , is required for protection against K . pneumoniae  pulmonary infections . Skap2-/- mice had 100-fold higher bacterial burden when compared to wild-type and burden was controlled by SKAP2 expression in innate immune cells . Skap2-/- neutrophils and monocytes were present in infected lungs , and the neutrophils degranulated normally in response to K . pneumoniae infection in mice; however , K . pneumoniae-induced neutrophil ROS response required the activity of SFKs , Syk , Btk , PLCγ2 , and PKC . The loss of SKAP2 significantly hindered the K . pneumoniae-induced phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 implicating SKAP2 as proximal to their activation in pathogen-signaling pathways . In conclusion , SKAP2-dependent signaling in neutrophils is essential for K . pneumoniae-activated ROS production and for promoting bacterial clearance during infection . pneumoniae contributes to 7 . pneumoniae  . pneumoniae 43816 strain robustly infects lungs eliciting a strong innate immune response through rapid and concurrent recruitment of neutrophils and iMOs to the infected lungs  . pneumoniae against the host neutrophil response  . pneumoniae  . pneumoniae lung infection  . pneumoniae infection  . pneumoniae triggering ROS production . Prior studies have indicated a critical role for Src Kinase Associated Phosphoprotein-2 , SKAP2  downstream of integrin , and GPCRs in neutrophils and macrophages  . In resting cells , SKAP2 is thought to exist in an autoinhibitory conformation as a homodimer that is constitutively bound to PRAM-1 in neutrophils  , or its homolog , ADAP , in other immune cells  . pneumoniae 43816 infection , we characterized the role of SKAP2 in pulmonary host defense against K . pneumoniae in this study . We demonstrate that SKAP2-expressing neutrophils contributed to the pulmonary containment of K . pneumoniae in lungs independent of inflammatory monocytes . Using murine neutrophils , we show that K . pneumoniae-induced ROS production requires SKAP2 , SFKs , Syk , PLCγ , Btk , and PKC , and that SKAP2 is required for maximal K . pneumoniae-activated phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinases SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 . To examine the role of SKAP2 in the pathogenesis of pneumonic K . pneumoniae infection , we intranasally infected wild-type  BALB/c or BALB/c Skap2-/- mice with a streptomycin-resistant derivative of K . pneumoniae reached on average 106 cfu with a 5-fold increase in neutrophil presence in the infected lungs  . pneumoniae infection . The increase in bacterial burden did not appear to be due to differences in the numbers of neutrophils  because neutrophils were detected at comparable levels in WT and Skap2-/- lungs , bone marrow as well as bronchoalveolar lavage of infected mice  . pneumoniae-infected WT and Skap2-/- mice  . To evaluate whether SKAP2-dependent control of K . pneumoniae  . In general , comparable numbers of neutrophils and inflammatory monocytes were detected in all three strains  although the percent of neutrophils recovered in C57Bl/6 Skap2-/- mice was higher  In summary , although leukocytes are present in the Skap2-/- lungs at comparable or slightly higher level to wild-type lungs , Skap2-/- mice were more susceptible to K . pneumoniae infection suggesting that their antimicrobial functions are compromised . pneumoniae infection , we generated bone marrow  chimeric mice by transplanting WT or Skap2-/- BM cells into either WT or Skap2-/- mice  . WT recipient mice reconstituted with Skap2-/- BM had significantly more K . pneumoniae in contrast to WT mice transplanted with WT BM  . Conversely , Skap2-/- recipients with WT BM cells had significantly decreased K . pneumoniae in their lungs as compared to Skap2-/- hosts that received Skap2-/- BM cells  . pneumoniae growth during lung infection , and that Skap2 expression in cells that are not derived from the marrow do not contribute to this phenotype . The contribution of neutrophils and iMOs to host defense against K . pneumoniae infection is dependent on the bacterial strain used with K . pneumoniae ATCC 43816 being more susceptible to neutrophils  . To determine the role of neutrophils and iMOs in the increased susceptibility of Skap2-/- mice to K . pneumoniae , WT and Skap2-/- mice were treated with the α-Ly6G  to deplete neutrophils , or the MC-21 antibody , which targets CCR2+ cells to deplete iMOs  . pneumoniae burden in iMOs-depleted WT mice was similar to vehicle-treated mice , significantly more bacteria were recovered from the lungs of neutrophil-depleted WT mice  confirming the importance of neutrophils in host defense  . The neutrophil-depleted WT mice had similarly high bacterial burdens as Skap2-/- mice  , and the depletion of Skap2-/- mice of neutrophils or iMOs did not increase their bacterial burden suggesting that protection against K . pneumoniae infection is SKAP2-dependent  . To assess the contribution of Skap2 expression in BM-derived iMOs and neutrophils in limiting K . pneumoniae infection , iMOs and neutrophils were depleted from irradiated Skap2-/- mice that had been reconstituted with WT BM cells  . As expected , reconstitution of Skap2-/- mice with WT BM resulted in a significant reduction in bacterial burden compared to Skap2-/- mice that received Skap2-/- BM cells  . Skap2-/- mice that received WT BM and were then depleted of neutrophils with α-Ly6G showed an increase in bacterial load and that burden was similar to those in Skap2-/- mice that received Skap2-/- neutrophils  . pneumoniae 43816 infection in the absence of SKAP2 in the hematopoietic compartment . As Skap2-/- neutrophils are present in infected tissues  , the uncontrolled K . pneumoniae growth may occur because of defects in the antimicrobial functions of Skap2-/- neutrophils at the site of infection . Neutrophils have multiple antimicrobial mechanisms to limit bacterial growth during infection  . Fully differentiated cells are referred to as differentiated in vitro  neutrophils . Like BM-derived neutrophils , DIV neutrophils expressed polymorphonuclear morphology and are cKit- CD11b+ Ly6G+  . When plated onto surfaces coated with poly-RGD , an engineered polypeptide containing multiple copies of the integrin binding motif , WT BM and DIV neutrophils released superoxide , while Skap2-/- BM and DIV neutrophils did not  . This is consistent with previously published data in C57BL/6J and Skap2-/- BM neutrophils  . By contrast , after stimulation of Fcγ receptors by IgG immune complexes  , WT and Skap2-/- BM and DIV neutrophils robustly produced ROS  . Skap2-/- BM and DIV neutrophils consistently released 60–80% as much ROS as compared to levels seen in comparable WT neutrophils . This indicates IC-stimulated ROS is partially dependent on SKAP2 . Combined , these results indicate WT and Skap2-/- DIVs phenocopy primary BM neutrophils both morphologically and functionally and are a useful tool to investigate how SKAP2 modulates K . pneumoniae-induced neutrophil responses . Furthermore , these data suggest that a functional NADPH complex can assemble in Skap2-/- neutrophils and that SKAP2 is required for receptor-activated signaling pathways downstream of integrin receptors , but not Fcγ receptors . pneumoniae infection  . To examine whether Skap2-/- neutrophils degranulated as efficiently as WT neutrophils during K . pneumoniae infection , we measured levels of released MMP-9 and neutrophil elastase  , proteins found in tertiary and primary granules , respectively  . Supernatants from WT and Skap2-/- K . pneumoniae-infected lungs had equivalent levels of MMP-9 and ELA2 in Skap2-/- at 16 and 24 hpi as detected by ELISA  . This suggests that the increased in susceptibility of Skap2-/- mice was not due to defects in degranulation . To determine the role of SKAP2 in phagocytosis of K . pneumoniae , phagocytosis was initially measured using microscopy . pneumoniae and counterstained with Alexa594-conjugated polyvalent α-K . pneumoniae 43816 was recovered on average at less than 0 . 01% in WT and Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils , while a non-encapsulated  K . pneumoniae strain was recovered at approximately 0 . This low level was not due to a defect in phagocytosis of DIV neutrophils as WT and Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils were able to phagocytose Yersinia pseudotuberculosis YPIII ΔyscNU strain , a strain that is susceptible to phagocytosis  . WT and Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils phagocytosed 20% and 10% of ΔyscNU , respectively  , suggesting that phagocytosis of this Y . pseudotuberculosis strain is partially dependent on SKAP2 . pneumoniae 43816 , the SKAP2-mediated defect in phagocytosis might be more prominent when challenged with other K . pneumoniae isolates . pneumoniae 43816 strain is resistant to neutrophil phagocytosis regardless of SKAP2 expression , but can elicit SKAP2-independent degranulation during infection . pneumoniae infection and had a significant increase in bacterial burden in their lungs  . To test whether SKAP2 deficiency resulted in a defect in neutrophil ROS production after K . pneumoniae infection , an isoluminol-amplified chemiluminiscence assay was used . In contrast to WT BM and DIV neutrophils , neither Skap2-/- BM nor DIV neutrophils produced ROS following exposure to K . pneumoniae  . pneumoniae-stimulated ROS production was not due to a defect in bacterial-binding as WT and Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils bound GFP-labeled K . In summary , Skap2-/- neutrophils are defective in triggering the signaling cascade  required for ROS after K . pneumoniae binding to surface receptors . To investigate how SKAP2 mediates K . pneumoniae infection . The DIV neutrophils were then infected with K . pneumoniae . pneumoniae infection compared to vehicle-pretreated neutrophils  . pneumoniae- and PMA-induced ROS  . pneumoniae-activated ROS production . Next , we assessed whether SKAP2 mediates K . pneumoniae-induced ROS production by influencing tyrosine phosphorylated-dependent functions of SFKs and Syk . pneumoniae infection , western blots of lysates from K . pneumoniae-infected WT DIV neutrophils were probed with phospho-specific antibodies . pneumoniae induced phosphorylation of SFKs  and Syk  to levels 2–5-fold higher than in unstimulated neutrophils  . pneumoniae-activated ROS  . pneumoniae stimulation  . pneumoniae . To determine if SKAP2 is required for phosphorylation of these tyrosine kinases , the levels of pSFKs , pSyk , and pPyk2 were assessed in Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils following K . pneumoniae exposure . While SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 phosphorylation were all slightly induced in Skap2-/- neutrophils , the level of induction was often significantly reduced as compared to WT neutrophils  . To determine if the reduction in phosphorylation was due to decreased cell viability , Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils were also stimulated with IC as a control . Stimulation of FcγRs resulted in the phosphorylation for SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 to similar levels in both WT and Skap2-/- DIV neutrophils  . pneumoniae-stimulated ROS production , and that the loss of SKAP2 prevents full phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 after K . pneumoniae stimulation such that neutrophils are unable to generate ROS production . pneumoniae 43816 in pulmonary infections in a murine lung model of infection . SKAP2 was indispensable for K . pneumoniae-stimulated neutrophil ROS production , but not degranulation or phagocytosis , suggesting that the increased bacterial burden in the Skap2-/- mice is affected by the loss of ROS . In murine neutrophils , SKAP2 was required for full phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 , demonstrating a critical role in K . pneumoniae-induced signaling pathways that are required for ROS production . pneumoniae 43816 was resistant to internalization indicating that phagocytosis is most likely not the primary protective mechanism provided by neutrophils to this strain . pneumoniae in mice  . pneumoniae burden in the absence of ROS , indicating that neutrophil ROS and degranulation may cooperate in containing K . pneumoniae infection . Since degranulation occurred normally in Skap2-/- lungs , the pathways of ROS production are distinct from signaling pathways regulating degranulation in murine neutrophils after K . pneumoniae infection . Neutrophils and ROS contribute to the defense against other pathogens such as Y . The immunological mechanisms of SKAP2-mediated neutrophil responses to other pathogens are under investigation . pneumoniae in mice based our findings and work of others  . pneumoniae infection in murine neutrophils in vitro . SKAP2 may impact the carboxy-terminus of Pyk2 in murine neutrophils , but not activation of other domains . Skap2-/- mice have normal levels of circulating neutrophils and Skap2-/- neutrophils were present in K . pneumoniae-infected lungs at a similar , and sometimes higher , levels as WT neutrophils  and  . However , prior studies revealed that Skap2-/- myeloid cells , including neutrophils , have impaired recruitment and migration into tissues during sterile inflammation  . Syk is required for neutrophil migration in an inflammatory model but not during bacterial infection  . Alternatively , it is possible that Skap2-/- neutrophils may have a reduced migration level in K . pneumoniae-infected lungs but this is balanced by significantly higher rate of neutrophil survival and these two factors result in a net neutrophil level that is equivalent to or higher than that observed in WT mice . Thus , to date it is unknown if SKAP2 plays a role in mediating the human neutrophil response to K . pneumoniae infection . It would be interesting to explore if the SKAP2-mediated K . pneumoniae-stimulated responses occur in human neutrophils , and whether neutrophils  from individuals carrying specific Skap2 variants respond differently K . pneumoniae 43816 infection . pneumoniae 43816 will be found with other K2 strains or strains of other serotypes . pneumoniae strains to probe the role of SKAP2 in neutrophils as well as other hematopoietic cells during K . pneumoniae infections . In summary , neutrophils and their production of ROS play a dual role in host health in many disease states from acute infections to autoimmune diseases to cancer  , and the crucial function of SKAP2-mediated ROS in murine neutrophils suggests that further analysis of the role of SKAP2 in human health warrants investigation . Generation of Skap2-/- mice in the BALB/c background was previously described  . pneumoniae ATCC43816 strain was used for all infections  . pneumoniae in 40 μl of sterile PBS , or with PBS  alone . pneumoniae 4–5 weeks later . pneumoniae-infected mice were scored per genotype . Mouse BM neutrophils were isolated as previously described  with the following modifications . At this point , cells were differentiated and termed DIV neutrophils . DAPI staining and flow cytometry were performed to confirm that >90% of cells were neutrophils . Neutrophils  and green fluorescent protein  -labeled K . pneumoniae-associated neutrophils was determined by flow cytometry using uninfected neutrophils as control . pneumoniae and Y . To evaluate whether Skap2-/- neutrophils generated ROS after infection with another species of bacteria , a Y . pneumoniae  were then added to wells at a MOI of 2 . pneumoniae was added at MOI 40 and spun at 250 x g for 2 min . 
Plasmodium vivax relapse infections occur following activation of latent liver-stages parasites  causing new blood-stage infections weeks to months after the initial infection . We develop a within-host mathematical model of liver-stage hypnozoites , and validate it against data from tropical strains of P . vivax . vivax transmission model to demonstrate the build-up of the hypnozoite reservoir following new infections and its depletion through hypnozoite activation and death . The hypnozoite reservoir is predicted to be over-dispersed with many individuals having few or no hypnozoites , and some having intensely infected livers . Individuals with more hypnozoites are predicted to experience more relapses and contribute more to onwards P . vivax transmission . vivax transmission as individuals with the most hypnozoites are more likely to relapse and be targeted for treatment . vivax malaria has been comparatively neglected . vivax  . In natural transmission settings relapses are often undistinguishable from re-infections from new mosquito bites or recrudescences of existing blood-stage infections . vivax infection is unknown , it can be classified as a recurrent infection  . vivax transmission models as a state to denote hypnozoite infection  or as up to two broods of hypnozoites  . Relapse patterns and their implications for transmission have also been investigated using statistical distributions for the time to first relapse  . Here we advance on existing work by considering how the number of hypnozoites in the liver contributes to patterns of relapse infections and the epidemiology and control of P . vivax . Hypnozoites will lie dormant in the liver for weeks to years before activating to initiate new blood-stage infections . The biological mechanisms regulating the activation of hypnozoites remain unknown  , although a number of triggers for relapses have been proposed , including fever caused by other pathogens such as P . vivax relapse infections , with strains from tropical areas having an average time to first relapse of 3–6 weeks and long-latency strains from temperate areas relapsing within 6–9 months  . Beyond the first relapse , periodic patterns in multiple relapses from a single mosquito bite have been observed  . vivax the time until next relapse has been observed to increase with each successive relapse  . In contrast , temperate strains are associated with a long latency period until first relapse  followed by short intervals between successive relapses  . vivax relapses will thus require estimation of three key quantities:  the time to first relapse ,  the number of relapses per primary infection , and  the duration of hypnozoite carriage . In this manuscript , a within-host model of hypnozoites in liver hepatocytes is developed to demonstrate that many of the epidemiological patterns of relapse infections can be explained by making the assumption that hypnozoites activate and die at a constant rate . This model is integrated into the existing theory of Ross-Macdonald models to account for the relapse infections characteristic of P . vivax malaria . We use this model to provide qualitative insights into the relative contribution of relapses to P . vivax transmission and illustrate the consequences for controlling P . vivax with vector control and anti-malarial drugs . Figure 1 shows the best fit within-host relapse model to data on time to first relapse infection from three ecological zones with tropical strains of P . In each ecological zone , the number of hypnozoites N and the hypnozoite activation rate α were correlated  . For example , a short time to relapse could be explained by a single fast activating hypnozoite or a large number of slow activating hypnozoites . Longitudinal data where multiple relapses are observed in individuals would allow better estimation of the number of hypnozoites in the liver and the duration of hypnozoite carriage . Time to first relapse infection from the within-host model fitted to data from three ecological zones with tropical strains of P . vivax  . 004 The within-host model can be used to simulate beyond the first relapse infection . Figure 2 shows some sample relapse patterns from the within-host models for tropical and temperate strains of P . vivax . This model predicts notable dose-dependency with increased numbers of hypnozoites associated with a greater number of relapses and shorter time to first relapse . Following the long latency to first relapse in temperate strains , the interval between subsequent relapses is considerably shorter . The within-host model assumes that hypnozoites act independently of each other , and hence the time to next relapsing hypnozoite is exponentially distributed . In particular we do not predict periodicity between relapsing hypnozoites  . If the simulated data are censored such that relapses occurring within 14 days of a previous relapse remain undetected  then there is an apparent periodicity in detected relapses . The periodicity in detected relapses is most evident for large numbers of hypnozoites with the period being determined by the assumed duration of prophylactic protection  . However , as has been previously argued , periodicity in relapses could also be attributable to a cycle of fevers initiating hypnozoite activation which in turn cause new blood-stage infections and malaria-associated fevers  . Sample relapse patterns for tropical and temperate strains of P . vivax . A relapse is assumed to be undetected if it occurs within 14 days of a detected relapse . Both tropical and temperate phenotypes exhibit dose dependency , with a larger number of hypnozoites giving rise to a greater number of relapses and shorter times to first relapse . For larger numbers of hypnozoites  , periodicity in detected relapses is observed . The appearance of this periodicity is due to the undetected relapses . Expected time between consecutive relapses . For the tropical phenotype the time between relapses was calculated as the mean duration between consecutive relapses over the first 6 months based on 10 , 000 stochastic simulations . For the temperate phenotype the time between relapses was calculated as the mean duration between consecutive relapses over the first 12 months based on 10 , 000 stochastic simulations . The red curves denote the time between detected relapses: it is assumed that within 14 days of a detected relapse some activating hypnozoites can go undetected due to anti-malarial prophylaxis or the presence of blood-stage parasites . The grey curve denotes the expected time between all consecutively activating hypnozoites . 006 Figure 3 shows the predicted number of relapsing hypnozoites in a population exposed to P . vivax in the absence of new infections . For tropical strains the mean number of hypnozoites in the liver is expected to decrease exponentially , but the proportion of individuals carrying hypnozoites is expected to decrease at a slower rate as an individual can relapse even if they have just one hypnozoite  . For temperate strains the mean number of hypnozoites in the liver decreases slowly , as hypnozoites remain in the long-latency phase for approximately 6 months  . The model allows estimation of time to second , third and consecutive relapses in addition to estimates of time to first relapse obtainable via survival analysis of patient data   . The expected number of relapsing hypnozoites per individual is expected to follow an approximately exponential distribution  in agreement with empirical observations  . Predicted relapse infections following primary P . vivax infection . Duration of hypnozoite carriage  and expected number of hypnozoites in the liver  . For the temperate strain , the dashed blue line shows the number of hypnozoites in the relapsing phase . Survival time until nth relapsing hypnozoite . Only the curves for the first five relapses are shown . Proportion of individuals with at least n relapsing hypnozoites following primary infection . The proportion of people infected with hypnozoites is predicted to be higher than the proportion infected with P . vivax blood-stage parasites . vivax blood-stage prevalence is predicted to be higher than P . falciparum prevalence as a single mosquito bite can give rise to multiple blood-stage infections . vivax hypnozoite rate , these quantities can be measured in epidemiological field studies  . Within-host model for tropical relapses embedded in a P . vivax transmission model . vivax and P . The number of hypnozoites per person is expected to increase with transmission intensity . The black line denotes the median number of hypnozoites , and the shaded areas denote the 50% and 95% ranges . The distribution of the hypnozoite reservoir when PvPR = 50% . The grey bar represents individuals with zero hypnozoites . 008 Figure 4B shows how the median number of hypnozoites increases with increasing P . vivax transmission . Figure 4C shows the distribution in the number of hypnozoites when PvPR = 50% . The number of hypnozoites per individual is predicted to be over-dispersed following a negative binomial distribution . Thus some individuals will harbour a large number of hypnozoites while some will have none . vivax . vivax  . Simulated effect of first-line treatment with a combined regimen of blood-stage anti-malarials and primaquine to remove liver-stage hypnozoites . Transmission model incorporating treatment of new infections with blood-stage anti-malarials . vivax gametocytes  are present in the blood very early on in the infection . Following treatment , individuals progress to a period of prophylactic protection Pi , during which they are not susceptible to new blood-stage infections but may still acquire hypnozoites from new bites from infectious mosquitoes . Transmission model incorporating treatment of new infections with blood-stage anti-malarials and primaquine . The incorporation of primaquine into first-line treatment regimens is accounted for by assuming that treatment clears all hypnozoites from the liver as well as clearing blood-stage infections . A 14 day daily dosing regimen of primaquine which has proven efficacy at preventing relapses . In particular we assume treatment eliminates all hypnozoites , so that treated individuals move to compartment P0  . The 14 day treatment regimen is assumed to provide a period of prophylactic protection against new hypnozoite infection , that is , new hypnozoites cannot be acquired while primaquine is being administered . vivax . vivax hypnozoite rate is slow as the hypnozoite reservoir is not directly targeted . The hypnozoite reservoir can be directly targeted using a drug such as primaquine that can eliminate hypnozoites from the liver  . vivax parasite rate and hypnozoite rate  , as individuals being treated for blood-stage P . vivax infections will also have their hypnozoites removed . A consequence of this strategy is that the hypnozoite reservoir can be targeted efficiently , as individuals with the most hypnozoites are most likely to relapse and potentially be detected by health systems . Figure 6 shows how the inclusion of primaquine in first-line treatment regimens preferentially targets the most intense infections , with the greatest reductions observed in individuals with the most hypnozoites . Targeting the hypnozoite reservoir . Proportion of the population infected with 1–2 , 3–9 or 10+ hypnozoites following the introduction of a first-line treatment regimen with blood-stage anti-malarial drugs and primaquine . Individuals with large numbers of hypnozoites are more likely to experience new blood-stage infections and hence become targeted for treatment and have their hypnozoites removed . 012 Relapse infections arising from the activation of hypnozoites in the human liver have important consequences for the transmission dynamics of P . vivax . Hypnozoites in the liver constitute a third malaria parasite reservoir , in addition to the reservoirs in the blood circulation and mosquito also present for P . falciparum . Relapses can be incorporated into Ross-Macdonald models of malaria transmission through the addition of a state to represent the hypnozoite reservoir  , or as demonstrated here , through consideration of the number of hypnozoites in the liver . This allows the intensity of hypnozoite infection to be estimated which is crucial for understanding patterns of relapse infections  and evaluating the effect of interventions such as primaquine treatment that directly target the hypnozoite reservoir . vivax relapses  . A key assumption in the proposed model is the constant activation of hypnozoites . This implies that relapses can occur immediately after primary P . vivax infection , in contrast to suggestions that the first relapse does not occur until 2–3 weeks later . vivax are followed for recurrent infection for 42 days  . falciparum  . vivax and P . falciparum transmission , the model predicts PvPR to be greater than PfPR due to the additional blood-stage infections arising from relapses . vivax  the low detectability of P . vivax blood-stage infections  , and the longer durations of P . falciparum blood-stage infection  not captured in the model . vivax parasite reservoir in the liver means that PfPR and PvPR are not directly comparable metrics . vivax transmission than to reduce P . falciparum transmission because of the additional infections emerging from the hypnozoite reservoir . The model described here allows the proportion of individuals harbouring hypnozoites to be estimated given metrics such as PvPR . The number of hypnozoites per person is predicted to be over-dispersed with some individuals with intensely infected livers and most carrying few or no hypnozoites  . vivax and P . falciparum transmission . vivax transmission can be maintained with fewer mosquito bites . vivax . vivax  . vivax blood-stage prevalence , as individuals with the most intense hypnozoite infections are more likely to relapse and be targeted for treatment and hence have their hypnozoites eliminated . vivax parasites' robust transmission into its Achilles' heel . vivax and P . vivax relapses  . vivax transmission . vivax blood-stage infections but rapid recurrence of infection was observed during follow-up—most likely due to relapses . vivax relapses can provide valuable insights into the impact of malaria control interventions on the parasite's reservoirs in the vector , the blood and the liver . Following infection with a tropical strain of P . vivax , the population dynamics of hypnozoites in the liver can be described by a within-host model where each hypnozoite is subject to two processes:  activation leading to relapse infection; and  death , either of the hypnozoite itself or the host hepatocyte  . The long latency of temperate strains before first relapse can be accounted for by assuming a period of dormancy during which hypnozoites must wait before they can activate . Within-host model schematic of relapsing hypnozoites in the liver . Hypnozoites from tropical strains of P . vivax will progress to the relapsing phase where they are subject to two processes: death and activation leading to relapse . Hypnozoites from temperate strains will begin in a temperate long-latency phase where they must wait before progressing to the relapsing phase . Detailed model schematic of the within-host relapse model . Green compartments denote the relapsing phase . Superscript N denotes that the infection began with N hypnozoites . In the relapsing phase , subscript i denotes the number of hypnozoites . An individual infected with N hypnozoites of a tropical strain begins in the HNN compartment and progresses to HN0 as hypnozoites activate or die . After passing through the M compartments for the long-latency phase , infections will enter the relapsing phase where relapse can occur . 015 The tropical relapse model is assumed to begin with an initial population of N hypnozoites , each of which can either activate at rate α , or die at rate µ , independently of each other . The number of hypnozoites in the liver will decay exponentially with an expected Ne−  t hypnozoites at time t . Let HiN  denote the probability that i of N hypnozoites remain in the liver after time t . This can be calculated as follows: if i hypnozoites remain in the liver , then N − i have either activated or died . The probability of each hypnozoite activating is αμ+α . The probability that j of N − i hypnozoites have activated can thus be calculated from a binomial distribution . If the mean number of hypnozoites is N , then the probability of k hypnozoites is  k1N+1 . Assuming a geometrically distributed number of hypnozoites , the three quantities describing the epidemiology of relapses can be estimated in terms of the within-host parameters . The expected number of relapsing hypnozoites is:  h=∑k=0∞  k1N+1︸probability of k initial hypnozoites k αα+μ︸probability of each hypnozoite relapsing=Nαμ+α The mean duration of hypnozoite carriage is:  1γ=∑k=0∞  k1N+1︸probability of k initial hypnozoites∑i=1k1i1μ+α︸duration of k hypnozoites=log  μ+α The expected time to first relapse is:  1f=∑k=1∞︸probability of k initial hypnozoites∑i=1k︸probability of hypnozoite i being first to relapse∑j=0k−i1k−j1μ+α︸time to relapse The within-host relapse model describes a baseline scenario in the absence of potential external triggers for relapse such as fever  . Underlying assumptions of this model are:  each hypnozoite acts independently of other hypnozoites , for example , hypnozoites will not activate in batches due to mechanisms such as quorum sensing; and ,  hypnozoite death occurs at a constant rate , due to either death of the hypnozoite within the hepatocyte or death of the hepatocyte itself  . The activation of a hypnozoite may not directly correspond to a detected relapse . For example , an infection arising from two hypnozoites activating within a day of each other is likely to be classified as a single relapse . vivax . During this period hypnozoites are subject to death at rate µ . Following a primary infection where N hypnozoites of a temperate phenotype develop in the liver , we define Li , jN as the probability that i of N hypnozoites are waiting in long-latency compartment number j , then the number of dormant and potentially active hypnozoites can be described by the following system of differential equations . vivax . In the model implemented here , it is assumed that all hypnozoites in an infection must undergo some waiting period before any of them can activate , and that during the long-latency phase hypnozoites are at risk of death due to natural hepatocyte death . We next embedded the within-host model for tropical relapses in a model for the transmission of P . vivax between humans and mosquitoes  . The transmission dynamics are driven by two processes:  transmission of parasites through mosquito bites; and  relapsing of liver-stage hypnozoites to cause new blood-stage infections . We assume that people can be susceptible  or infected with blood-stage parasites  , where i denotes the number of hypnozoites in the liver . Within-host model for tropical relapses embedded in a transmission model . Si denotes the proportion of humans susceptible to blood-stage infection with i hypnozoites . Ii denotes the proportion of humans with blood-stage infections carrying i hypnozoites . Individuals in all compartments are exposed to primary infections at rate λ , following which they will move down the flow diagram to a compartment representing blood-stage infection and carrying a greater number of hypnozoites . 017ParameterDescriptionValueReferenceWithin-host Nnumber of hypnozoites per infection8 . 5  rrate of clearance of blood-stage infections1/60 day−1  frelapse frequency  1/76 day−1Equation 6 hexpected number of relapses4 . The increase in hypnozoites in the liver is determined by the force of infection λ and the number of hypnozoites per infection N , and the decrease is due to hypnozoite activation α and death µ . In the absence of super-infection , the recovery from blood-stage infection is ρi=r . The within-host model for tropical relapses was fitted in a Bayesian framework to data on time to first relapse infection from three ecological zones with tropical strains of P . vivax infection  and mostly followed up in the absence of exposure to new infections  . The likelihood of the tropical relapse model can be evaluated by applying the model to the data on time to first relapse infection . The first detected relapse will occur after clearance of parasites from the primary infection and after the period of prophylactic protection from anti-malarial drugs . Define QN  to be the probability that at least 1 of N hypnozoites has relapsed by time t . vivax infection will either relapse  or avoid infection  . 
Emissions are then counterbalanced by forest regrowth . We highlight the key role of survivors in the forest regrowth and elaborate a comprehensive map of post-disturbance C recovery potential in Amazonia . Among those disturbances , selective logging , i . Logged forests may recover their aboveground carbon stocks  via enhanced growth of survivors and recruited trees  . Full recovery of pre-disturbance ACS in logged stands reportedly requires up to 125 years , depending primarily on disturbance intensity  . In particular , northeast-southwest gradients have been reported for ACS  , net primary productivity  , wood density  , and floristic composition  . Here we partition the contributions to post-disturbance ACS gain  and ACS loss  of survivors and recruited trees to detect the main drivers and patterns of ACS recovery in forests disturbed by selective logging across Amazonia sensu lato  . Based on long-term  inventory data from 13 experimentally-disturbed sites  across Amazonia  , 133 permanent forest plots  that cover a large gradient of disturbance intensities  were used to model the trajectory of those post-disturbance ACS changes  in a comprehensive Bayesian framework . We quantify the effect of pre-disturbance ecosystem characteristics  , disturbance intensity  , and interactions with the environment   on the rates at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state  . With global maps of ACS  , climatic conditions  and soil bulk density  , we up-scale our results to Amazonia  and elaborate predictive maps of potential ACS changes over 10 years under the hypothesis of a 40% ACS loss , which is a common disturbance intensity after conventional logging in Amazonia  . Summing these ACS changes over time gives the net post-disturbance rate of ACS accumulation . Disentangling ACS recovery into demographic processes and cohorts is essential to reveal mechanisms underlying ACS responses to disturbance and to make more robust predictions of ACS recovery compared to an all-in-one approach  . Post-disturbance annual ACS changes of survivors and recruits in 133 Amazonian selectively logged plots . Data is available between the year of minimum ACS  and t=30 years . ACS changes are: recruits’ ACS growth  , recruits’ ACS loss  , new recruits’ ACS  , survivors’ ACS growth  and survivors’ ACS loss  . New recruits’ ACS , recruits’ ACS growth , and recruits’ ACS loss converge over time to constant values . A dynamic equilibrium is then reached: ACS gain from recruitment and recruits’ growth compensate ACS loss from recruits’ mortality . Survivors’ ACS growth and loss . decline over time and tend to zero when all initial survivors have died . Effect of covariates on the rate at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state  . Covariates are : disturbance intensity  , i . the proportion of initial ACS loss; mean site’s ACS  , and relative forest maturity , i . pre-logging plot ACS as a % of a⁢c⁢s⁢0  ; annual precipitation  ; seasonality of precipitation  , soil bulk density  . Survivors’ ACS growth . New recruits’ ACS . Recruits’ ACS growth . Survivors’ ACS loss . Recruits’ ACS loss . Fitted vs observed values of cumulative ACS changes  . Survivors’ cumulative ACS growth . New recruits’ cumulative ACS . Recruits’ cumulative ACS growth;  Survivors’ cumulative ACS loss;  Recruits’ cumulative ACS loss . Because mortality is a stochastic event , ACS loss has poorer predictions than ACS gain which is a more continuous process . 007 At a given site , variations of post-logging ACS changes are explained with the disturbance intensity  and the relative forest maturity  . At high disturbance intensity  as well as in relatively immature forests  , ACS gain from recruits is high: recruitment decreases slowly  and recruits’ growth increases rapidly  . In the same conditions of high disturbance intensity , survivors’ ACS growth is lower in the first years following logging than for low disturbance intensities , but declines slowly  . Disturbance intensity and relative forest maturity have a weak effect on ACS loss from both survivors and recruits  . Overall , net ACS change stays high longer at high disturbance intensity  . Predicted effect of disturbance intensity on ACS changes along time in an Amazonian-average plot . Survivors’ ACS growth . New recruits’ ACS . Recruits’ ACS growth . Survivors’ ACS loss . Recruits’ ACS loss . Net ACS change . The net ACS change is the sum of all five ACS changes . ACS changes were calculated with all parameters set to their maximum-likelihood value and covariates  set to 0 . Time since minimum ACS varies from 0 to 30 year  and disturbance intensity ranges between 5% and 60% of initial ACS loss . 008 Variations of post-logging ACS changes between sites are explained with the mean ACS of each site  , climatic conditions  and the soil bulk density  . Contribution of survivors’ growth to ACS recovery declined slowly in sites with low a⁢c⁢s⁢0 and high water stress   . Survivors’ ACS loss showed the opposite pattern  except in apparent response to high seasonality of precipitation  that slowed the post-disturbance rates of decline of both ACS growth and loss . Despite slower recruits’ ACS growth in sites with high pre-logging ACS  , no other regional covariate had significant effects on recruits’ ACS changes  . While no significant environmental effects were detected for recruits’ ACS changes  , the survivors showed a highly structured regional gradient:  ACS gain from survivors’ ACS growth is high in the west and in the Guiana Shield , but low in the south  , whereas  survivors’ ACS loss is low in the south and in the Guiana Shield but high in the west  . To illustrate how these regional differences will be critical for future ACS across Amazonia , we developed a map of net ACS recovery over the first 10 years after a 40% ACS loss by integrating the sum of ACS change predictions through time  . Across the region , net ACS recovery over the first ten years after a 40% ACS loss is predicted to be 17 ± 7 Mg C ha-1 , with higher values in the west and in the Guiana Shield  . Predicted cumulative ACS changes  over the first 10 year after losing 40% of ACS . Cumulative ACS changes are obtained by integrating annual ACS changes through time . Top graphs are ACS gain and bottom graphs are ACS loss . ACS gain from survivors’ growth . ACS gain from new recruits . ACS gain from recruits’ growth . ACS loss from survivors’ mortality . ACS loss from recruits’ mortality . Survivors’ ACS changes  show strong regional variations unlike to recruits’ ACS changes  . Predicted net ACS recovery over the first 10 year after losing 40% of pre-logging ACS . Four areas were arbitrarily chosen to illustrate four different geographical behaviours:  the Guiana Shield and  northwestern Amazonia are two areas with high ACS recovery; the Guiana Shield has higher initial ACS and slower ACS dynamics whereas northwestern Amazonia has lower initial ACS and faster ACS dynamics . central Amazonia has intermediate ACS recovery . southern Amazonia has low ACS recovery . 010 Four areas  were selected to represent four contrasted cases of net ACS recovery in time  : two areas , northwestern Amazonia and the Guiana Shield , with high ACS accumulation  , one intermediate area , central Amazonia  and one area with low ACS accumulation , southern Amazonia  . Survivors’ contribution to the sum of ACS gains  over the first 10 years after disturbance was 71 ± 4% in the Guiana Shield , 71 ± 2% in the west; 63 ± 4% in central Amazonia and 55 ± 6% in the south . Predicted net ACS recovery  and survivors’ ACS growth  are highly correlated: ρ=0 . Predicted contribution of annual ACS changes in ACS recovery in four regions of Amazonia  . The white line is the net annual ACS recovery , i . the sum of all annual ACS changes . Survivors’  and recruits’  contribution are positive for ACS gains  and negative for survivors’ and recruits’ ACS loss . In the Guiana Shield and in nothwestern Amazonia , high levels of net ACS recovery are explained by large ACS gain from survivors’ growth . 011 Contrasting post-disturbance ACS dynamics were detected among the western Amazon , Guiana Shield , and southern Amazon  . Such conditions of low stress and high disturbance tend to favor fast-growing species with rapid life cycles  , which results in fast ACS gain and loss from survivors even after the logging disturbance  . Yet post-disturbance ACS loss from survivors’ mortality decreases slowly in the Guiana Shield  . In the southern Amazon , high seasonal water stress is the main constraint on ACS recovery  . Stress-tolerant trees are generally poor competitors  and this may explain the slow ACS changes of survivors in this region  . Across Amazonia , survivors contribute most to post-disturbance ACS recovery . In regions where survivors’ ACS gain is high  , net ACS recovery is also high: annual ACS recovery is between 1 and 3 Mg C ha-1 yr-1 in the first 10 year after logging  , lower than in Amazonian secondary forests  . Recruits , for their part , have very low geographical variations in post-logging ACS changes: 10 years after the disturbance they are predicted to store similar amounts of ACS almost everywhere in Amazonia . The 10–20 cm DBH size class contains as much as 14% of total ACS and may be highly dynamic in some Amazonian forests  . At the stand level , high disturbance intensities reduce survivors’ ACS: survivors’ ACS growth is consequently lower  , resulting in lower net ACS change during the first 10 years of the recovery period  . High disturbance intensities as well as relatively low forest maturity alleviate competition , and this is probably why ACS contributions from recruits remain high for longer  in such enhanced growth conditions  . In the first years after logging , net ACS recovery depends little on disturbance intensity  , but recovery is predicted to last longer in heavily logged forests . In immature forests , intense self-thinning  may explain fast ACS losses from survivors’ mortality  . Our results reveal that lower disturbance intensities , as a direct consequence of the employment of RIL techniques , could increase survivors’ ACS growth and slow down their ACS loss . In this study , we focus on one type of disturbance: selective logging . We nevertheless believe that our study gives clues on the regional differences in Amazonian forests response to large ACS losses induced by other disturbances  that are expected to increase in frequency with ongoing global changes  . The ACS of every tree i was then computed as follows:  ACSi^=exp ( −1 . The ACS changes data that was generated is available at Dryad Digital Repository  . After logging , plot ACS decreases rapidly until it reaches its minimum value  a few years later . a⁢c⁢s⁢m⁢i⁢n was estimated as the minimum ACS in the 4 years following logging activities . Because our focus is on post-logging ACS recovery , we did not include in our analysis plots where the minimum ACS value was not reached within the 4 years after logging , either because the logging activity did not affect the plot or because there were other sources of disturbance long after logging  . For each plot j and census k , with tk the time since the beginning of the recovery period t0 , we define 5 ACS changes : new recruits’ ACS  is the ACS of all trees <20 cm DBH at tk-1 and ≥20 cm DBH at tk; recruits’ ACS growth  is the ACS increment of living recruits between tk-1 and tk ; recruits’ ACS loss  is the C in recruits that die between tk-1 and tk; survivors’ ACS growth  is the ACS increment of living survivors between tk-1 and tk; survivors’ ACS loss  is the ACS of survivors that die between tk-1 and tk . ACS gains  are positive and ACS losses  are negative . Instantaneous ACS changes are subject to stochastic variation over time: because we are less interested in year-to-year variations than in long-term ACS trajectories , we modelled cumulative ACS changes instead of annual ACS changes . Cumulative ACS changes  were defined as follows:  c⁢C⁢h⁢a⁢n⁢g⁢ej , k=∑m=0kC⁢h⁢a⁢n⁢g⁢ej , m where j is the plot , tk the time since t0  and C⁢h⁢a⁢n⁢g⁢e is the annual ACS change  , either recruits’ ACS  , recruits’ ACS growth  , recruits’ ACS loss  , survivors’ ACS growth  , or survivors’ ACS loss  . To model ACS changes , we chose six covariates :  l⁢o⁢s⁢s disturbance intensity , i . percentage of initial ACS loss;  a⁢c⁢s⁢0 mean ACS of the site;  d⁢a⁢c⁢s relative ACS of the plot , as a % of a⁢c⁢s⁢0;  p⁢r⁢e⁢c annual precipitation;  s⁢e⁢a⁢s precipitation seasonality;  b⁢d topsoil bulk density . The uncertainty associated with ACS covariates  is less than 10%  . Survivors’ cumulative ACS changes are null at t=0  . When all survivors are dead , their ACS changes stop: annual ACS changes become null and cumulative ACS changes reach a constant/finite limit . We decided to model survivors’ cumulative ACS growth c⁢S⁢g and ACS loss c⁢S⁢l as:  c⁢Si , j , k∼𝒩⁢ ( αjS× ( 1-e⁢x⁢p⁢  ) ,  2 ) where j is the plot , tk is the time since t0 , S is either S⁢g or Sl . αjS is the finite limit of the cumulative ACS change and βjS the rate at which the cumulative ACS change converges to this limit . By choosing an exponential kernel , we assume that survivors’ ACS change at tk is proportional to survivors’ ACS change at tk-1 . Because αjS values are expected to vary among plots , they are modelled with the following distribution:  αjS∼𝒩⁢ ( α0S ,  2 ) Parameter βjS is the rate at which survivors’ ACS change  on plot j converges to a finite limit after the disturbance: it reflects the response rapidity of survivors’ ACS changes to disturbance . Covariates are centred and standardized and are  l⁢o⁢s⁢s : disturbance intensity , i . percentage of initial ACS loss;  a⁢c⁢s⁢0 : mean ACS of the site;  d⁢a⁢c⁢s relative ACS of the plot , as a % of a⁢c⁢s⁢0;  p⁢r⁢e⁢c annual precipitation;  s⁢e⁢a⁢s precipitation seasonality;  b⁢d topsoil bulk density . When all survivors in plot j are dead , all the C gained by their growth  plus their initial ACS  will have been lost  . We thus added the following constraint to each plot j:  αjS⁢l+αjS⁢g+a⁢c⁢s⁢m⁢i⁢nj=0 with αjS⁢g , αjS⁢l the finite limits of survivors’ cumulative ACS growth and ACS loss respectively , and a⁢c⁢s⁢m⁢i⁢nj the ACS of the plot j at tm⁢i⁢n=t0 . When survivors are all dead , recruits will constitute the new forest . We made the assumption that the ACS of this new forest will reach a dynamic equilibrium: recruits’ annual ACS changes are expected to converge to constant values  , with ACS gains compensating ACS losses . Because there are no recruits yet at t0 , recruits’ annual ACS growth  and ACS loss  are zero , and progressively increase to reach their asymptotic values . Recruits’ annual ACS growth and ACS loss can be thus modelled with the function:  f⁢  =α× ( 1-e⁢x⁢p⁢  ) where t is the time since the beginning of the recovery period . In the same logic as survivors’ cumulative ACS change , α is the asymptotic value of recruits’ annual ACS change  , and β is the rate at which this asymptotic value is reached . Contrary to recruits’ annual ACS growth and ACS loss , the ACS of new recruits  is high at t0 because of the competition drop induced by logging , but then progressively decreases to reach its asymptotic value . The parameter η was added to allow annual recruited ACS to be higher than α at t0 . As stated before , we chose to model cumulative ACS changes instead of annual ACS changes . The general model for recruits’ cumulative ACS changes is deduced by integrating annual ACS changes from t0 to tk:  cRi , j , k∼𝒩 ( αiR× ( tk+η×1−exp  βjR ) ,  2 ) where i is the site , j is the plot , tk is the time since t0 R is either Rr , Rg or R⁢l . Once the forest reaches a new dynamic equilibrium , recruits’ annual ACS changes should depend mostly on each site’s characteristics: we expect there to be more inter-site than intra-site variation in recruits’ asymptotic ACS changes αR . This is why we use one value αiR per site i , and model it as follows:  αiR∼𝒩⁢ ( α0R;  2 ) When the dynamic equilibrium is reached , annual ACS gain  compensates annual ACS loss  . List of priors used to infer ACS changes in a Bayesian framework . Models are :  survivors’ ACS growth ,  survivors’ ACS loss ,  new recruits’ ACS ,  recruits’ ACS growth ,  recruits’ ACS loss . 012ModelParameterPriorJustificationS⁢gαjS⁢g𝒰⁢On average 100 survivors/ha storing 0 . 95=ln  β is the time when the ACS change has reached 95% of its asymptotic value . for pre-disturbance aboveground carbon stocks  ; WorldClim   for annual precipitation and seasonality of precipitation , and the Harmonized World Soil database  for topsoil bulk density;  disturbance intensity is set to 40% of pre-logging ACS loss , which is a common value for disturbance intensity after conventional logging in Amazonia  , and the relative forest maturity d⁢a⁢c⁢s is set to zero;  parameters are drawn from their previously calibrated distribution;  to simulate random effects , all five parameters  are taken from their distribution 𝒩⁢  ;  for every pixel , we estimate the five cumulative ACS changes  10 years after the 40% ACS loss , given the parameters value and the pixel covariates values extracted from global rasters . 
In contrast , pre-GEPCOT cells were quiescent , expressed higher Glast , and lower EGFR and PlexinB2 . Pre-GEPCOT cells could not form neurospheres but expressed the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreERT , GFAP-CreERT2 , Sox2CreERT2 , and Gli1CreERT2 and were long-lived in vivo . While GEPCOT NICs were ablated by temozolomide , pre-GEPCOT cells survived and repopulated the SVZ . Conditional deletion of the Bmi-1 polycomb protein depleted pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells , though pre-GEPCOT cells were more dependent upon Bmi-1 for Cdkn2a  repression . SVZ NICs have been enriched by flow cytometry based on CD15 expression  or ROS levels  . In contrast , it has been suggested that nearly all GFAP-GFP+CD133+ cells are NICs and that these cells are the qNSCs in the SVZ  . Thus , it has not been possible to test whether Bmi-1 is autonomously required by NSCs in the adult brain or whether NSCs differ from NICs in their dependence upon Bmi-1 . Here we report the prospective identification of two phenotypically and functionally distinct populations of cells in the SVZ: GEPCOT cells and pre-GEPCOT cells . These cells accounted for 3 . Based on fate-mapping these cells were short-lived in the SVZ . We enzymatically dissociated adult mouse SVZ cells then sorted cells by flow cytometry into non-adherent cultures at clonal density  . 4% of SVZ cells formed neurospheres  and 75% of those neurospheres underwent multilineage differentiation  . We found 17 markers that enriched NICs relative to unfractionated SVZ cells  . A screen of antibodies identified cell surface markers of NICs in the adult mouse SVZ . Flow cytometric gating strategy to isolate GEPCOT cells  that represent 3 . 7% of young adult mouse SVZ cells . Frequency of all neurospheres  and multipotent neurospheres formed by unfractionated SVZ cells  , GEPCOT cells , and remaining live SVZ cells outside of the GEPCOT population  . Frequency of BrdU+ SVZ cells or GEPCOT cells after BrdU pulses in vivo  . GEPCOT cells efficiently formed multipotent neurospheres in vitro and were mitotically active in vivo . Isolating GEPCOT cells by flow cytometry . The sixth gate  is drawn using the ‘live SVZ cells’ population as a guide . Most NICs and multipotent NICs were contained in the GEPCOT population , which was 20-fold enriched for NICs relative to unfractionated SVZ cells . The remaining non-GEPCOT cells were threefold depleted for NICs relative to unfractionated SVZ cells . We refer to these GlastmidEGFRhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− cells as GEPCOT cells  . GEPCOTs accounted for 3 . 7% of all SVZ cells  . On average , 36 ± 6% of GEPCOT cells formed neurospheres  and 74% of those neurospheres underwent multilineage differentiation  . Most NICs from the SVZ were contained within this GEPCOT population  . Given that individual NICs are unlikely to form colonies with 100% efficiency after dissociation and flow cytometry , most GEPCOT cells likely have the potential to form neurospheres . After just a 2 hour pulse of BrdU , 35 ± 2% of GEPCOTs were already BrdU+ as compared to only 11 ± 4% of unfractionated SVZ cells  . Longer pulses of BrdU progressively increased the labeling of the GEPCOT cells . After a 24-hr pulse of BrdU , 89 ± 4% of GEPCOTs were BrdU+ as compared to 47 ± 9% of unfractionated SVZ cells  . GEPCOTs are thus highly mitotically active and enriched for dividing cells relative to unfractionated SVZ cells . We found that Dlx1CreERT2  , Ascl1CreERT2  , Gli1CreERT2  , Slc1a3-CreERT  , and Sox2CreERT2  labeled 11–94% of NICs 2 days after tamoxifen administration  . With each Cre allele and at earch time point , the frequency of tdTomato+ GEPCOTs was statistically indistinguishable from the frequency of tdTomato+ neurospheres that arose in culture from unfractionated SVZ cells  . This independently confirms that GEPCOT markers reliably identify uncultured cells with the ability to form neurospheres . Individual NICs persist only transiently within the SVZ in vivo but are constantly replenished by more primitive neural stem cells . Mice bearing inducible Cre alleles and the Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato conditional reporter were induced with 5 consecutive days of tamoxifen injections  then chased for 2 to 60 days before analysis of the percentage of labeled SVZ cells or GEPCOT cells in vivo or the percentage of labeled neurospheres  in culture . Cells marked by recombination of Dlx1CreERT2  , Ascl1CreERT2  , Gli1CreERT2  , Slc1a3-CreERT  , or Sox2CreERT2  . 005 To assess the persistence of NICs in vivo we quantified the frequencies of all SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and neurospheres that were tdTomato+ at 2 , 7 , 28 , or 60 days after tamoxifen treatment . In the absence of tamoxifen we detected no tdTomato expression in SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , or cultured neurospheres in Dlx1CreERT2 mice  . 2 days after tamoxifen treatment , Dlx1CreERT2 labeled 51 ± 6% of SVZ cells , 15 ± 6% of GEPCOTs , and 11 ± 4% of neurospheres  . 7 days after tamoxifen this significantly  declined to 8 ± 5% of SVZ cells , 0 . 9% of GEPCOTs , and 0 . 9 ± 1% of neurospheres  . 28 days after tamoxifen only rare SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and neurospheres were labeled  . Dlx1CreERT2-expressing NICs thus persist in vivo for less than 7 days . Ascl1CreERT2 labeled most GEPCOTs and neurospheres . In the absence of tamoxifen , only 0 . 02% of SVZ cells , and no GEPCOTs or neurospheres , were tdTomato+  . 2 days after tamoxifen , Ascl1CreERT2 labeled 34 ± 7% of SVZ cells , 63 ± 8% of GEPCOTs , and 64 ± 6% of neurospheres  . 7 days after tamoxifen a similar fraction of SVZ cells remained tdTomato+  but the fraction of labeled GEPCOTs and neurospheres significantly  declined to 40 ± 4% and 45 ± 3% , respectively  . 28 days after tamoxifen only 16 ± 0 . 9% of SVZ cells , 16 ± 0 . 6% of GEPCOTs , and 19 ± 1 . 0% of neurospheres were labeled . 2% of SVZ cells , 12 ± 0 . 8% of GEPCOTs , and 8 ± 3% of neurospheres at 60 days after tamoxifen  . This demonstrates that most Ascl1CreERT2-expressing NICs persist in vivo for less than 28 days . In contrast to cells labeled with Dlx1CreERT2 or Ascl1CreERT2 , cells labeled with Gli1CreERT2 , Slc1a3-CreERT , or Sox2CreERT2 exhibited a sustained contribution to the pools of SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and NICs for at least 60 days after tamoxifen administration  . This suggested the existence of a long-lived NSC population in the SVZ that replenishes NICs and is marked by Gli1CreERT2 , Slc1a3-CreERT , and Sox2CreERT2 expression  . To test whether there is an earlier stem cell population in the SVZ we sought a CreERT2 allele that recombines in long-lived NSCs but not in NICs . Since prior studies have implicated GFAP as a marker of type B cells and NSCs in the adult SVZ  we performed lineage-tracing experiments with GFAP-CreERT2  . In the absence of tamoxifen , only 0 . 02% of SVZ cells , and no GEPCOTs or neurospheres , were tdTomato+  . 2 days after tamoxifen treatment , GFAP-CreERT2 labeled only 5 ± 0 . 6% of SVZ cells , 7 ± 2% of GEPCOTs , and 8 ± 0 . 9% of neurospheres  . 3% of SVZ cells , 19 ± 5 . 5% of GEPCOTs , and 18 ± 6 . 1% of neurospheres  . By 28 days after tamoxifen this further increased to 26 ± 3 . 7% of SVZ cells , 32 ± 4 . 7% of GEPCOTs , and 35 ± 7 . 2% of neurospheres  . At 60 days after tamoxifen we observed 23 ± 2 . 6% of SVZ cells , 34 ± 8 . 0% of GEPCOTs , and 37 ± 4 . 2% of neurospheres labeled  . GFAP-CreERT2-expressing NSCs thus make a sustained and growing contribution to the SVZ , in contrast to NICs labeled by Dlx1CreERT2 or Ascl1CreERT2 . Identification of a pre-GEPCOT population that gives rise to GEPCOT NICs in vivo . GFAP-CreERT2; Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato mice were induced with tamoxifen for 5 days , chased for 2 to 60 days without tamoxifen , then conditional reporter expression was analyzed in all SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and cultured neurospheres  . GFAP-CreERT2; Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato mice were analyzed by flow cytometry to quantify reporter expression in SVZ cells without tamoxifen  , at 2 days  or 28 days  after tamoxifen treatment . Without tamoxifen , virtually no SVZ cells expressed the reporter . 2 days after tamoxifen , the tdTomato+ cells labeled by recombination by the GFAP-CreERT2 stem cell marker were GlasthighEgfr−/lowPlexinB2midCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/Cd45−  , which we describe as ‘pre-GEPCOT’ cells . By 28 days after tamoxifen , GlastmidEgfrhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− GEPCOT cells were also labeled . The gating strategy to identify the GFAP-expressing pre-GEPCOT population that comprises 6 ± 3% of SVZ cells . 006 To better characterize the GFAP-CreERT2-expressing SVZ cells we examined the surface markers expressed by tdTomato+ cells 2 days after tamoxifen treatment of GFAP-CreERT2; Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato mice . These cells differed from GEPCOT cells in that they exhibited higher levels of Glast and lower levels of EGFR and PlexinB2 expression . pre-GEPCOT cells made up only 6 ± 3% of all SVZ cells  and yet , based on GFAP-CreERT2 lineage tracing , gave rise to many SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and NICs within 28 days of tamoxifen treatment  . The GFAP-CreERT2-expressing pre-GEPCOTs therefore included NSCs with a much greater capacity to contribute to the SVZ than Ascl1CreERT2-expressing NICs . To confirm this we sorted pre-GEPCOT cells to test whether they stain with an anti-GFAP antibody . GFAP expression was heterogeneous within the pre-GEPCOT population , with 21 ± 7% being GFAPhigh and 33 ± 2% being GFAPlow  . This suggests that the pre-GEPCOT population is much more highly enriched for NSCs as compared to unfractionated SVZ cells , which contained only 2 ± 1% GFAPhigh cells and 6 ± 3% GFAPlow cells  . GFAP-expressing pre-GEPCOT cells are quiescent in vivo but make an enduring contribution to the SVZ . Antibody staining for GFAP among SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and pre-GEPCOTs   . The frequencies of neurospheres >50 μm , multipotent neurospheres , adherent colonies , and multipotent adherent colonies  formed by unfractionated live SVZ cells , GEPCOTs , and pre-GEPCOTs . Frequency of BrdU+ SVZ cells or pre-GEPCOT cells after BrdU pulses in vivo  . Conditional reporter expression in pre-GEPCOT cells at varying times after recombination with the indicated Cre alleles . Cre alleles that only transiently contributed to the SVZ  did not recombine in pre-GEPCOT cells , while Cre alleles that gave enduring contributions to the SVZ  did recombine in pre-GEPCOT cells . The frequencies and numbers of labeled pre-GEPCOT cells , GEPCOT cells , neuroblasts , and other SVZ cells at varying times after recombination by GFAP-CreERT2  . Markers that distinguish pre-GEPCOT from GEPCOT cells . Statistical significance of differences between SVZ and pre-GEPCOT cells in C was assessed with two-tailed student's t tests . 007 Whereas GEPCOTs were highly enriched for multipotent NICs  , pre-GEPCOTs were unable to form neurospheres . We sorted unfractionated SVZ cells into culture and found that 1 . 5% of the cells formed neurospheres and 2 . In contrast , only very rare pre-GEPCOT cells formed neurospheres  and only 0 . To assess whether pre-GEPCOT cells are quiescent or frequently dividing in vivo , we administered pulses of BrdU . Although 47 ± 9% of SVZ cells and 89 ± 4% of GEPCOT cells  incorporated a 24-hr pulse of BrdU in these experiments , only 3 ± 3% of pre-GEPCOT cells incorporated BrdU in the same mice  . Similarly , 60 ± 6% of SVZ cells and 91 ± 3% of GEPCOT cells  incorporated a 2-week pulse of BrdU in these experiments , but only 4 ± 2% of pre-GEPCOT cells incorporated BrdU  . These data indicate that pre-GEPCOT cells are quiescent in the SVZ . To assess whether fate-mapping with CreERT2 alleles is consistent with the existence of a pre-GEPCOT qNSC population we assessed whether they recombined in pre-GEPCOT cells . Dlx1CreERT2 , which labeled 51 ± 6% of all SVZ cells and 15 ± 6% of GEPCOTs at 2 days after tamoxifen treatment  , did not label any pre-GEPCOT cells at 2 , 7 , or 28 days after tamoxifen treatment  . Ascl1CreERT2 , which labeled 34 ± 7% of all SVZ cells and 63 ± 8% of GEPCOTs at 2 days after tamoxifen  , labeled fewer than 1% of pre-GEPCOT cells at 2 , 7 , 28 , and 60 days after tamoxifen  . Thus , both of the CreERT2 alleles that exhibited declining contributions to the SVZ upon fate-mapping labeled GEPCOTs but not pre-GEPCOTs . Neither the Dlx1CreERT2-expressing GEPCOT NICs nor the Ascl1CreERT2-expressing GEPCOT NICs gave rise to significant numbers of pre-GEPCOT qNSCs in vivo , at least under steady-state conditions . To assess whether pre-GEPCOTs contain qNSCs we tested whether the CreERT2 alleles that sustainably contributed to the SVZ over time  labeled pre-GEPCOT cells . Gli1CreERT2 , which sustainably labeled 8–19% of all SVZ cells and 26–40% of GEPCOTs for 60 days after tamoxifen treatment  , also sustainably labeled 7–13% of pre-GEPCOT cells at 2 to 60 days after tamoxifen treatment  . Slc1a3-CreERT , which sustainably labeled 21–48% of all SVZ cells and 61–72% of GEPCOTs for 60 days after tamoxifen  , also labeled 31–36% of pre-GEPCOT cells 2 to 60 days after tamoxifen  . Sox2CreERT2 , which sustainably labeled 49–65% of all SVZ cells and 92–97% of GEPCOTs for 60 days after tamoxifen  , also sustainably labeled 87–93% of pre-GEPCOT cells 2 to 60 days after tamoxifen  . Thus all of the CreERT2 alleles that gave a sustained contribution to NIC and SVZ labeling also labeled pre-GEPCOTs , consistent with the suggestion that pre-GEPCOT cells contain qNSCs . Moreover , every CreERT2 allele that labeled pre-GEPCOT cells exhibited sustained labeling of not only pre-GEPCOT cells but also GEPCOTs , NICs , and unfractionated SVZ cells . We tested whether the GFAP-CreERT2 recombination pattern was consistent with pre-GEPCOT qNSCs giving rise to GEPCOT NICs in vivo . 2 days after tamoxifen administration to GFAP-CreERT2; Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato mice , the tdTomato label was present mainly in pre-GEPCOT cells . On average , 29 ± 7% of pre-GEPCOT cells were tdTomato+ whereas only 6 . 9% of GEPCOT cells , 2 . 8% of other SVZ cells were labeled  . These data indicate that GFAP-CreERT2 recombines efficiently in pre-GEPCOTs but not GEPCOT NICs in vivo . 28 days after tamoxifen treatment , the percentage of labeled pre-GEPCOT cells increased to 44 ± 5 . 8% of cells  . The percentages of labeled GEPCOTs , neuroblasts , and other SVZ cells also increased significantly  by 28 days–32 ± 4 . At 60 days after tamoxifen , we continued to observe strong labeling in pre-GEPCOTs , GEPCOTs , and neuroblasts  . These data suggest GFAP-CreERT2-expressing pre-GEPCOT cells include qNSCs that give rise to NICs , neuroblasts , and other SVZ cells  . We examined the localization of pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells in whole mount stains of the SVZ . Since many pre-GEPCOTs recombined with GFAP-CreERT2 but virtually no GEPCOTs did  , these data indicate that many pre-GEPCOT cells have the morphology and position of type B1 cells in the SVZ . Since all GEPCOT cells express high levels of EGFR  while pre-GEPCOT cells have low levels of EGFR  , these data suggest that many GEPCOT cells have the morphology and position of type C cells . Our observation that pre-GEPCOT cells include qNSCs raised the question of whether pre-GEPCOT cells are resistant to anti-mitotic agents . 3 days after TMZ we observed an 80% reduction in the number of dividing SVZ cells , based on BrdU incorporation  . The number of dividing SVZ cells slowly increased over time , recovering to 50% of normal by 90 days after TMZ treatment  . 3 days after TMZ only 0 . Treatment with temozolomide does not affect the frequency of pre-GEPCOT cells but ablates GEPCOT NICs . At each time point after TMZ treatment the panels show the total number of cells isolated per SVZ  , the number of SVZ cells per section that incorporated a 2 hr pulse of BrdU  , the number of multipotent neurospheres that arose in culture per SVZ  , the number of GEPCOTs per SVZ  , and the number of pre-GEPCOTs per SVZ  . The numbers of labeled GEPCOTs were measured after recombination with Ascl1CreERT2  , Slc1a3-CreERT  , or GFAP-CreERT2  . 008 Consistent with the effects of TMZ on NICs , TMZ treatment also eliminated nearly all GEPCOT cells . The numbers of pre-GEPCOT cells in the SVZ were not affected by TMZ treatment  . If pre-GEPCOT qNSCs regenerate NICs after TMZ treatment then serial TMZ treatment might be expected to deplete pre-GEPCOT cells . Under these circumstances , pre-GEPCOT cells were not depleted 3 days after the second round of TMZ treatment but they were depleted by 90 days after the second round of TMZ  . Consistent with the observation that pre-GEPCOT cells were sensitive to serial TMZ treatment , we detected little recovery of dividing SVZ cells  , NICs  , or GEPCOTs  after serial TMZ treatment . These data suggest that GEPCOT NICs are replenished after ablation by pre-GEPCOT qNSCs . To directly test whether GEPCOTs arise from pre-GEPCOT cells during SVZ regeneration we performed lineage tracing using multiple Cre alleles by first labeling cells with tamoxifen and then treating with TMZ  . After recombination of a conditional reporter with the GEPCOT marker Ascl1CreERT2 , the number of unlabeled GEPCOTs per SVZ increased from 120 ± 50 at 3 days after TMZ to 640 ± 210 at 35 days after TMZ  but Ascl1CreERT2-labeled GEPCOTs did not significantly change  . The GEPCOTs , NICs , and neuroblasts that regenerated after TMZ treatment thus did not arise from Ascl1CreERT2-labeled GEPCOTs  . In contrast , after recombination of a conditional reporter with the pre-GEPCOT markers Slc1a3-CreERT and GFAP-CreERT2 we observed significant  increases in the frequencies of labeled GEPCOT cells , NICs , and neuroblasts between 3 and 35 days after TMZ treatment  . These results strongly suggest that pre-GEPCOT cells give rise to GEPCOTs , NICs , and neuroblasts during SVZ regeneration . pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs expressed similar levels of Bmi-1 by qRT-PCR  . To study the molecular mechanisms that regulate the maintenance of pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs in vivo we generated a floxed allele of Bmi-1  and conditionally deleted Bmi-1 using Nestin-Cre  . Consistent with this , Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice exhibited a loss of Bmi-1 protein in the cortex and SVZ by western blot  and a loss of Bmi-1 transcripts in SVZ cells , GEPCOT cells , and pre-GEPCOT cells by qRT-PCR  . Reduced neurogenesis , SVZ cell proliferation , GEPCOT frequency , and pre-GEPCOT frequency in Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl adult mice . Bmi-1 transcript levels in GEPCOT and pre-GEPCOT cells , normalized to β-actin and shown relative to SVZ cells  . Western blot of SVZ cells and cortical  cells from adult Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl  mice and Bmi-1fl/fl  controls . PCR analysis of genomic DNA from SVZ cells , GEPCOT cells , and pre-GEPCOT cells  as compared to controls  . A faint non-specific band is visible in Δ/Δ GEPCOT cells . The number of BrdU+ SVZ cells per section after a 2-hr pulse of BrdU  . The frequency of SVZ cells that formed multipotent neurospheres  . The frequency of  pre-GEPCOT cells ,  GEPCOT cells and  neuroblasts in the SVZ of 4- and 12-month-old mice  . Cdkn2a  mRNA expression normalized to β-actin in SVZ , pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells  . Cdkn2a  was undetectable in all Bmi-1fl/fl samples . In Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mutants Cdkn2a  was detected in SVZ cells  and pre-GEPCOT cells  but usually not in GEPCOT cells  . In C–E and G–O , WT is Bmi-1fl/fl and Δ/Δ is Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl adult mice , and times are ages of mice . Body mass  and brain mass  of Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls . Representative images from different regions of the brains of Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls . Representative images from the cortex of Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls stained for GFAP and DAPI  . Fraction of mice that exhibited detectable Bmi-1 transcript levels by RT-PCR in SVZ , pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells from 4 month old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls  . 010 Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice were modestly but significantly smaller than littermate controls  . Unlike germline Bmi-1 deficient mice , which generally die within a month after birth  , we were able to age Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice for up to 2 years . However , the survival of Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice throughout adulthood made it possible for the first time to test whether Bmi-1 is autonomously required by qNSCs or NICs in the adult brain . Consistent with the phenotype of germline Bmi-1 deficient mice  , brain morphology appeared relatively normal in Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . The cerebellums from Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice were smaller than in control mice and had significantly thinner molecular layers  . We also observed unusually prominent GFAP staining throughout the cortex of adult Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . We observed complete Bmi-1 recombination in sorted SVZ cells , GEPCOT cells , and pre-GEPCOT cells isolated from adult Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . 12 month-old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice exhibited a significantly reduced number of SVZ cells that incorporated a 2-hr pulse of BrdU  . We measured the rate of neurogenesis in Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls by administering BrdU for 7 days  followed by a 4-week chase without BrdU . Neurospheres formed by Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl SVZ cells were significantly smaller than control neurospheres  , were unable to undergo multilineage differentiation  , and could not be passaged  . To assess whether Bmi-1 deficiency affected pre-GEPCOT qNSCs or GEPCOT NICs in vivo we assessed the frequencies of these cells in SVZs from 4 and 12 month old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and littermate controls . The frequency of pre-GEPCOT cells was significantly reduced at 4 months of age  . We observed no significant effects on the frequencies of GEPCOT cells  or neuroblasts  at 4 months of age . However , each of these populations was significantly depleted in 12 month old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . Bmi-1 is thus required for the maintenance of normal numbers of pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs in the adult brain . Nonetheless , some pre-GEPCOT cells , GEPCOT cells , and neurogenesis did persist for at least a year in adult mice , demonstrating that NSCs are not absolutely dependent upon Bmi-1 for their maintenance in the adult brain . We were unable to detect Cdkn2a  transcripts in wild-type SVZ cells , pre-GEPCOT qNSCs , or GEPCOT NICs in 4-month-old  or 12 month old  mice  . In contrast , 4-month old Bmi-1-deficient SVZ cells  and pre-GEPCOT cells  did express Cdkn2a  and the level of Cdkn2a  expression significantly increased between 4 and 12 months of age  . Low level Cdkn2a  expression was detected in GEPCOT cells from two of five 4 month-old Bmi-1-deficient mice and in GEPCOT cells from one of five 12 month old Bmi-1-deficient mice  . Bmi-1 is thus required to repress Cdkn2a  expression in pre-GEPCOT qNSCs . To conditionally delete Bmi-1 in the adult brain we used Nestin-CreERT2 , which deletes broadly throughout the SVZ , including within qNSCs that give rise to SVZ cells after AraC treatment  . We observed significantly lower levels of Nestin transcripts within pre-GEPCOT qNSCs as compared to GEPCOT NICs  and only 9 . 5% of GEPCOTs and 39 . 3% of SVZ cells  . We also observed higher levels of Nestin transgene expression in GEPCOT cells as compared to pre-GEPCOT cells , including Nestin-mCherry and Nestin-GFP  . 1% of GEPCOT cells and 96 ± 1 . 9% of pre-GEPCOT cells  . Therefore , although endogenous Nestin is expressed at lower levels in qNSCs as compared to NICs , Nestin second intronic enhancer transgenes are variably expressed in both pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs , and Nestin-CreERT2 gives nearly complete recombination in both cell populations . We administered tamoxifen in the chow of Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and littermate controls for 30 days beginning at 6 weeks of age and assessed recombination efficiency 2 weeks after completing tamoxifen treatment  . By PCR analysis of genomic DNA we observed near complete recombination in unfractionated SVZ cells and complete recombination in pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells isolated from adult Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . Reduced neurogenesis , gliogenesis , SVZ cell proliferation , and GEPCOT NICs in adult Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice relative to littermate controls . Wild-type and germline Bmi-1−/− bone marrow  cells are shown as controls . PCR analysis of genomic DNA from SVZ cells , GEPCOT cells , and pre-GEPCOT cells 1 day after tamoxifen treatment as compared to controls   . The frequency  or number  of BrdU+ SVZ cells per section after a 2-hr pulse of BrdU  . The frequencies of SVZ cells that formed neurospheres  , or multipotent neurospheres  . The frequency of pre-GEPCOT cells  or GEPCOT cells  in the SVZ  . qRT-PCR analysis of Cdkn2a  transcript levels expression normalized to β-actin in SVZ , pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells  . In A and C–R , WT is Bmi-1fl/fl and Δ/Δ is Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl adult mice , and timepoints are times after tamoxifen induction beginning at 6 weeks of age . Nestin expression in GEPCOT and pre-GEPCOT cells . Frequency of cells within each cell population that stained positively for Nestin protein  . Representative histograms of Nestin-mCherry  and Nestin-GFP  transgene expression in SVZ cells , GEPCOT cells , and pre-GEPCOT cells . Nestin-CreERT2; Rosa26-loxp-tdTomato mice were treated with 5 consecutive days of tamoxifen injections  then chased for 2 days  . The frequency of tdTomato+ cells in each cell population is shown . Adult Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice show Bmi-1 recombination in pre-GEPCOT qNSCs . PCR of genomic DNA from individual neurospheres cultured from Bmi-1fl/fl control  or Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl  mice 2 weeks after tamoxifen treatment . In this experiment all Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl neurospheres with successful PCR product amplification showed complete excision of the floxed allele . Body mass of Bmi-1fl/fl control  and Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl  mice 6 months after tamoxifen treatment  . Thickness of the molecular and granular layers of cerebellum from Bmi-1fl/fl control and Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice 10–14 months after tamoxifen treatment  . The number of Mcm2+  and Ki67+  SVZ cells per section  . Representative images of SVZ sections from 6- and 12-month old Bmi-1fl/fl control  and Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl  mice . RT-PCR was performed on pre-GEPCOT cells isolated from wild type  , Bmi-1fl/fl  , or Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  6 months after tamoxifen treatment to assess Cdkn2a  transcript levels . 013 Body mass  , brain histology  , and cerebellum size  were all grossly normal in Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice six months after tamoxifen treatment . To assess the consequences of Bmi-1 deletion from adult neural stem/progenitor cells , we measured the rate of neurogenesis in Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and Bmi-1fl/fl controls by administering BrdU for 7 days  followed by a 4-week chase without BrdU . The frequency of newborn olfactory bulb BrdU+S100β+ astrocytes appeared normal 6 months after tamoxifen treatment but was significantly reduced 12 months after tamoxifen in Bmi-1 mutant mice  . We quantified the frequency of SVZ cells that incorporated a 2-hr pulse of BrdU . Bmi-1 mutant mice had significant reductions in the frequencies of BrdU+ SVZ cells at 2 weeks  , 6 months  and 12 months  after tamoxifen treatment  . Bmi-1 mutant mice also had significant  reductions in the frequencies of Mcm2+  and Ki67+  SVZ cells . To assess whether Bmi-1 is required by adult NICs we plated SVZ cells from tamoxifen-treated Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl and control mice in non-adherent cultures and assessed GEPCOT cell frequency . 2 weeks after tamoxifen treatment the frequencies of NICs  and GEPCOTs  were unchanged in Bmi-1 mutant mice as compared to littermate controls . At 6 and 12 months after tamoxifen treatment , Bmi-1 deficient SVZ cells formed virtually no neurospheres  . Consistent with this , Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice also had significantly lower frequencies of GEPCOTs than control mice at 6 months and 12 months after tamoxifen treatment , and the magnitude of the depletion increased over time  . Virtually no GEPCOTs could be found in Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice 12 months after tamoxifen treatment  . These data demonstrate that GEPCOT NICs require Bmi-1 in vivo for their maintenance in the adult SVZ , though the cells are able to persist for several months after Bmi-1 deletion before they are completely eliminated . To test whether qNSCs depend upon Bmi-1 for their maintenance in vivo we examined the frequency of pre-GEPCOT cells in tamoxifen-treated Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice and littermate controls . pre-GEPCOT cells were not depleted at 2 weeks or 6 months after tamoxifen treatment  . We observed a clear trend toward reduced pre-GEPCOT cell frequency in Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice 12 months after tamoxifen treatment but the effect was not statistically significant . To test whether there was a loss of Bmi-1 function in these cells we performed qRT-PCR to assess Cdkn2a  expression in cells from Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice . We did not detect Cdkn2a  transcripts in wild-type SVZ cells , pre-GEPCOT qNSCs , or GEPCOT NICs 2 weeks  , 3 months  , or 8 months  after tamoxifen treatment  . We rarely detected Cdkn2a  transcripts in SVZ cells or GEPCOT cells from Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice 2 weeks  , 3 months  or 8 months  after tamoxifen treatment . Cdkn2a  transcripts were rarely detected in pre-GEPCOT cells from Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice 2 weeks  or 3 months  after tamoxifen treatment . However , 8 months after tamoxifen treatment Cdkn2a  expression was detected in pre-GEPCOT cells from seven of nine Nestin-CreERT2; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . These data demonstrate that Bmi-1 is required during adulthood to negatively regulate Cdkn2a  expression in pre-GEPCOT qNSCs but that these cells are depleted more slowly than GEPCOT NICs in the adult SVZ . Although high levels of Cdkn2a  expression are associated with cellular senescence , we were unable to detect any increase in senescence associated β-galactosidase activity in pre-GEPCOT cells from 14 month old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice or in cultured neural stem/progenitor cells from Bmi-1 germline deficient mice  . GEPCOT cells were highly enriched for NICs  and highly mitotically active in vivo  but persisted only transiently in the SVZ based on fate mapping with Ascl1CreERT2 or Dlx1CreERT2  . In contrast , pre-GEPCOT cells lacked the ability to form neurospheres or adherent colonies in culture  , and were quiescent in vivo  but were long-lived in the SVZ based on fate mapping with the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreERT  , GFAP-CreERT2  , Sox2CreERT2  , and Gli1CreERT2   . In contrast to GEPCOT NICs , pre-GEPCOT cells were resistant to TMZ  . Although TMZ eliminated virtually all NICs from the SVZ  , the dividing cells , NICs , and GEPCOTs regenerated within a month of TMZ treatment  . The persistence of pre-GEPCOT cells after TMZ  , and the regeneration of GEPCOTs from a precursor that expresses Slc1a3-CreERT and GFAP-CreERT2 but not Ascl1CreERT2  suggest that the SVZ regenerates from pre-GEPCOT qNSCs . Phenotypically and functionally distinct populations of pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs . GlasthighEGFR−/lowPlexinB2midCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− pre-GEPCOT cells are a quiescent , TMZ resistant population containing qNSCs that give rise to GlastmidEGFRhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− GEPCOT cells that are highly mitotically active in vivo and enriched for NICs . pre-GEPCOT cells include Type B1 cells , GEPCOT cells include Type C cells , and neuroblasts make up Type A SVZ cells  . 014 The conclusion that pre-GEPCOT cells include qNSCs is also supported by the sustained contribution of GFAP-CreERT2 marked cells to the SVZ , as GFAP-CreERT2 labeled many pre-GEPCOT cells but few GEPCOT cells or NICs immediately after tamoxifen treatment  . Thus , our data demonstrate that GFAP-CreERT2 recombination is a marker of qNSCs that survive treatment with anti-mitotic agents and contribute to an increasing proportion of pre-GEPCOT cells , GEPCOT cells , and neuroblasts over time  . Although pre-GEPCOT cells accounted for 6 ± 3% of SVZ cells , this population is likely to be heterogeneous , consistent with its heterogeneous GFAP expression  . Thus , the actual frequency of qNSCs in the SVZ may be lower than 6% . An interesting question for future studies will be whether there are regional differences in the distributions or properties of pre-GEPCOT qNSCs or GEPCOT NICs within the SVZ , corresponding to regional differences in stem/progenitor cell properties  . Germline deficiency for the polycomb family member Bmi-1 eliminates multipotent NICs and reduces proliferation and neurogenesis in the SVZ  . Conditional deletion of Bmi-1 from the fetal and adult SVZ using Nestin-Cre  and Nestin-CreERT2  demonstrated that pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs require Bmi-1 to be maintained in normal numbers in the adult forebrain , but the depletion of these cells and the loss of neurogenesis occurred much more gradually than expected . Even when Bmi-1 was completely deleted in neural stem/progenitor cells during fetal development , normal or near-normal numbers of pre-GEPCOT cells , GEPCOT cells , and SVZ neuroblasts were found in the SVZ of 4 month old Nestin-Cre; Bmi-1fl/fl mice  . This demonstrates that pre-GEPCOT qNSCs and GEPCOT NICs can persist throughout fetal and postnatal development , and into adulthood , in the absence of Bmi-1 . This suggests that qNSCs and NICs are less acutely dependent upon Bmi-1 for their maintenance than expected based on studies of Bmi-1 germline knockout mice  . First , the phenotype in Bmi-1 germline knockout mice may indeed be more severe as non-cell-autonomous effects of Bmi-1 deficient stroma contribute to stem cell deficits in these mice  . Consistent with the gradual depletion of pre-GEPCOT cells , GEPCOT cells , and neurogenesis during adulthood after conditional Bmi-1 deletion , we also observed a gradual increase in Cdkn2a  expression in pre-GEPCOT cells but not in GEPCOT cells  . Ascl1CreERT2  mice were housed in the Johnson laboratory . Targeting vectors to generate Bmi1fl mice  were constructed by recombineering  . Markers that stained SVZ cells heterogeneously were used to separate SVZ cells by flow cytometry into different fractions then sorted into non-adherent cultures to measure the frequency of NICs . To stain SVZ cells with the combination of markers used to isolate GEPCOT or pre-GEPCOT cells , dissociated SVZ cells were centrifuged  and resuspended in 100 μl staining medium per brain . 
Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel involved in sensing forces in various cell types and tissues . Cryo-electron microscopy has revealed that the Piezo1 structure is bowl-shaped and capable of inducing membrane curvature via its extended footprint , which indirectly suggests that Piezo1 ion channels may bias each other’s spatial distribution and interact functionally . Here , we use cell-attached patch-clamp electrophysiology and pressure-clamp stimulation to functionally examine large numbers of membrane patches from cells expressing Piezo1 endogenously at low levels and cells overexpressing Piezo1 at high levels . Our data , together with stochastic simulations of Piezo1 spatial distributions , show that both at endogenous densities  , and at non-physiological densities  predicted to cause substantial footprint overlap , Piezo1 density has no effect on its pressure sensitivity or open probability in the nominal absence of membrane tension . The results suggest that Piezo channels , at densities likely to be physiologically relevant , inherently behave as independent mechanotransducers . For example , Piezo1 is a mechanically gated cation channel that directly senses membrane tension  with high sensitivity  . Therefore , theoretically , any mechanical disturbance of the cell membrane may lead to changes in Piezo1 channel open probability  . However , the propagation of membrane tension away from its source has been shown to be relatively slow  , poising Piezo channels with the ability to efficiently and rapidly transduce only mechanical forces that are nearby  . Indeed , there is recent experimental evidence suggesting that Piezo1 channels may be non-uniformly distributed . TIRF imaging of Piezo1 channels revealed their free diffusion over the surface of live neural stem/progenitor cells , indirectly suggesting channels are not tethered to other static structures and that random membrane distribution may be possible . However , in the same cells , Piezo1-related activity was spatially enriched , which could arise from non-uniform distribution of Piezo1 channels , variable membrane tension , or both  . STORM imaging of HEK293 cells stably expressing GFP-tagged Piezo1 also suggested a non-homogenous spatial distribution , but at channel densities that are likely not physiological  . Additional studies have proposed the existence of clusters with varying numbers of channels  , and that Piezo1 may be concentrated at focal adhesions  and at wound edges in keratinocytes  . A compelling theoretical framework predicting spatial and functional interactions between nearby Piezo channels has been constructed based on cryo-electron microscopy structures of Piezo1 , which revealed its large and extremely curved dome-shaped structure  . Theoretical calculations based on these structures suggest that Piezo1 can both sense and curve the proximal membrane with a characteristic decay length extending ~14 nm beyond the channel . The energetic cost of this membrane curvature implies that Piezo1 channels that are within ~3 decay lengths  may influence each other via multiple mechanisms: opposing curvature may cause nearby Piezo1 channels to repel each other , as well as influence each other’s gating properties  . Indeed , imaging of vesicles containing reconstituted Piezo1 has demonstrated the ability of Piezo1 to curve the membrane locally and suggested that flattening of the channel dome may directly couple to channel opening , but the precise effects of membrane energetics on gating have yet to be explored experimentally  . Here , we set out to quantify the spatial distribution and potential functional interactions of Piezo1 ion channels across multiple orders of channel densities . To simultaneously measure and thus directly correlate Piezo1 channel density with its gating properties , we performed cell-attached patch-clamp electrophysiology on Neuro2A cells , which natively express Piezo1  . We then designed a novel stimulation protocol that we optimized to assess Piezo1 single-channel conductance  , pressure sensitivity  , and number of channels  in each patch with high accuracy . Consistent with this idea , the same pressure step caused a similarly small current in patches from Neuro2A-Piezo1ko cells , which have been CRISPR-engineered to lack Piezo1 channels  . We are confident that these slow changes in current are unrelated to Piezo gating , as currents clearly saturated after leak subtraction  . Additionally , we never observed channel openings during the ramp phase of the protocol in 15 patches from Neuro2A-Piezo1ko cells  . Next , we focused on titrating the sizes of our patch pipettes such that a substantial fraction of patches had zero channels  . Finally , in order to obtain good representations of the spatial distribution and function of Piezo1 channels , we executed this protocol on patches from a very large number of individual Neuro2A cells  . The remaining patches  were classified as having zero channels  . We next used the mean single-channel current from all patches with one channel  to calculate the precise number of channels  in all other patches . Ultimately , we obtained a continuous , bell-shaped distribution of Piezo1 channel numbers per patch  . We estimated the dome size of membrane patches inside patch pipettes from imaging experiments to be 2 µm  and used this value to calculate the average density of Piezo1 channels to be 1–2 channels/µm2 . Next , we used two different approaches to assess if the density of Piezo1 channels affects their sensitivity to membrane tension: First , we calculated P50 values , measured from sigmoidal fits to the ramp phase of the current , and plotted them as a function of channel number  . Altogether , the results show that , for patches containing 1–14 channels , average P50 values do not vary substantially with channel number  . We therefore conclude from both analyses that at densities of up to 2 channels/µm2 , Piezo1 channels do not influence each other’s mechanosensitivity . Multiple mechanisms may explain our above result that Piezo1 pressure sensitivity does not vary with channel density . First , Piezo1 channels may be randomly distributed and therefore spatially too distant to functionally interact via their membrane footprints . Alternatively , Piezo1 channels may indeed tend to localize in close spatial proximity  , but this localization may have no effect on their pressure sensitivity . First , we simulated a distribution of randomly dispersed Piezo1 channels . In order to challenge this interpretation , we next simulated a random distribution of Piezo1 clusters in which individual Piezo channels are distributed across a 2D-Gaussian distribution with a standard deviation of 50 nm , which is the estimated size of the Piezo channel footprint  , all while holding the overall channel density constant . 6 Piezo1 channels  interact over 50 nm also describes the experimental data well . However , simulating larger channel clusters  fails to reproduce the experimental distribution , specifically the probability of capturing patches without any channels  . Thus , our experimental data are most parsimoniously explained by either a random spatial distribution or a weak propensity for Piezo channels to spatially localize in groups of 2–3 . Interestingly , the two distributions differ significantly in the predicted fraction of channels that are within one footprint of at least one other channel: in a truly random distribution , the mean nearest-neighbor distance is ~390 nm , and only ~5% of channels are within 100 nm of another channel , whereas if channels tend to cluster in groups of 2–3 , the mean nearest-neighbor distance is reduced to 225 nm and almost 50% of channels are within 100 nm of another channel  . Our above results do not answer if , in principle , Piezo1 channels have the ability to functionally interact . We therefore decided next to examine Piezo1 function using a heterologous overexpression system , in which channel densities are much higher . For these experiments , we chose Neuro2A-Piezo1ko cells , in order to retain the same cellular background , but avoid heterogeneity from endogenous and overexpressed Piezo1 , especially given that there are known splice variants of Piezo1  . While the step protocol still produces a 2–3 pA background current at high pressures , owing to changes in leak and/or capacitance , here , this error is very minor compared to the large Piezo-mediated currents  , especially for patches with many channels . The low channel activity during the prepulse allowed us to measure the single-channel current of each individual patch at both –80and +60 mV  and therefore to precisely calculate the minimal number of channels  . Importantly , there was no correlation between number of channels and single-channel current , suggesting that unitary conductance of Piezo1 is not modulated by channel density  . The number of channels per patch was well described by a Gaussian distribution with 89 . 8 channels per patch  , which we estimate corresponds to a Piezo1 density of ~45 channels/µm2  . The most extreme current amplitude we observed  corresponds to a maximal density of ~100 channels/µm2 . At this maximal density , if Piezo channels were randomly distributed in the membrane , their mean next-neighbor distance would be ~50 nm  . Two groups had previously predicted that nearby Piezo1 channels may influence each other’s gating , even in the absence of membrane tension  . Most notably however , we found that Piezo1 open probability did not increase with channel density; rather , open probability slightly decreased , from 0 . 4% for patches with 1–10 channels  to 0 . 1% for patches with >200 channels   . As an alternative test , we measured the effect of channel number on pressure sensitivity . However , patches with small ensembles of channels  yielded imprecise estimates of P50 and slope values for two reasons: First , for patches with few channels , the stochastic nature of channel gating generates highly variable individual pressure-response curves . The results again show that pressure-response curves and sensitivity  are independent of channel numbers  . In these experiments , we were able to independently calculate channel density for each individual patch by dividing the number of channels in each patch by its visualized surface area at 0 mmHg  . Importantly , we found no correlation between either the tension of half-maximal activation  or the slope  and channel density in the range of 10–70 channels/µm2  , again supporting that Piezo1 channels do not influence each other’s tension sensitivity . Altogether , we conclude that at low and high densities , Piezo1 channels show no positive cooperativity in the presence or in the nominal absence of membrane tension . We sought to characterize the inherent ability of Piezo channels to spatially localize and modulate each other’s function . Consequently , our statistical approach of counting channels within membrane patches works best when the spatial distance between Piezo1 channels is comparable to the size of the membrane dome inside the patch pipette . The fact that ~15% of patches in wild-type Neuro2A cells contained no Piezo1 channels  is therefore an extremely important quality benchmark for adequate spatial resolution . Certainly , when overexpressing Piezo1 the variability in Piezo1 membrane levels is high , in part due to variable expression levels among cells . However , none of the above statistical errors , or others we did not consider and that skew channel number distributions , affect our ability to correlate Piezo1 channel number with its function . Neither endogenous Piezo1 in Neuro2A cells or overexpression of Piezo1 in Neuro2A-P1ko cells are perfect model systems for investigating how Piezo1 channels function when they are directly contacting each other: experimental channel densities do not reach the theoretical limit of a tightly packed 2D hexagonal lattice . However , the maximal densities we obtained are certainly sufficient for Piezo1 membrane footprints to geometrically overlap: for example , at the highest density we measured  , the centers of randomly spaced Piezo1 domes are on average 50 nm from their nearest-neighbor , which results in a substantial number of channels having overlapping membrane footprints  . In any case , two distinct analyses show that at densities of 1–2 channels/µm2  and 10–100 channels/µm2  , Piezo1 pressure and tension sensitivity are not modulated by channel numbers . This is consistent with Haselwandter and MacKinnon’s prediction that the Piezo structure favors channels to repel each other . However , the result does not mean that Piezo1 channels in close proximity can never be found . At native expression levels , a mild tendency for clustering predicts 20% of all Piezo1 channels will be within 50 nm of each other  , which is fully consistent with studies that have captured images of neighboring Piezo1 channels  , but 80% of all Piezo1 channels are outside this range . In other words , in wild-type Neuro2A cells , most Piezo1 channels are too far apart to ‘feel’ each other . This result is important , because it shows that Piezo1 channels have no strong intrinsic tendency to spatially concentrate and functionally modulate each other’s mechanical sensitivity . Still , does the Piezo1 membrane footprint allow for the possibility of cooperativity among nearby channels ? Our experiments at high channel densities  reveal no change in Piezo1 pressure sensitivity with increasing channel numbers . Surprisingly , our data do suggest that in the nominal absence of membrane tension Piezo1 open probability is slightly  reduced with channel number but overall , very low  at all channel densities we probed . This is notable , because the opposite result was recently obtained by simulations of Piezo1 that are in extreme proximity to each other  . Moreover , any cooperativity need not arise via membrane footprint interactions: for example , calcium permeating through Piezo1 may influence the resting open probability of nearby channels . However , we fully expect that specific cell types may concentrate Piezo channels into locations that are dedicated to detecting forces . For example , it is plausible that in sensory neurons Piezo2 channels may be highly concentrated in free nerve endings as compared to the cell soma . Only one patch was made from each cell; in some cases , two protocols were run on each patch  . The number of channels in each patch was calculated by dividing Imax by the mean single-channel current from all patches with precisely one channel  or from single-channel openings during the +60 mV prepulse  . To generate idealized currents  , the number of channels  in each patch , as well as the time of openings , were manually identified . The open probability at a given time was taken as the fraction of total channels in the patch that were open . Patches with larger numbers of channels  are underrepresented due to the increased difficulty in identifying discrete openings . A model for spatial distribution of Piezo1 ion channels was built using a Thomas point process in IGOR Pro 8 . To further account for variability in transmembrane potentials as a source of noise , we translated channel counts into current amplitudes using our experimentally obtained normal distribution of single-channel currents , which yielded a mean single-channel current of 0 . Current amplitudes were then reverted into channel counts and used to generate a channel count histogram . The characteristic decay length  of membrane deformation induced by the large curved dome of Piezo1 is estimated to be 14 nm  . 8 µm , which was used for simulation of Piezo1 spatial distribution in the Thomas point process model . For native expression in Neuro2A cells , our average channel count was 3 . 5 channels , which corresponds to an average density of 1 . 75 channels/µm2 . For overexpression of Piezo1 in Neuro2A-p1ko cells , our average channel count was ~100 channels , which corresponds to an average density of 50 channels/µm2 . For the maximal channel number we observed  , with an estimated in-plane area of 400 nm2  , an estimated footprint of 7800 nm2  and a patch dome surface area of 2 µm2 , approximately 4% of the membrane surface would be covered by Piezo channels and 78% of the surface covered by Piezos + corresponding footprints if channels were evenly distributed  . 
Many decisions are thought to arise via the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound . In perception , the mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength , characterized by signal-to-noise ratio , on decision speed , accuracy and confidence . An increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence . For both humans and monkeys , increasing the noise induced faster decisions and greater confidence over a range of stimuli for which accuracy was minimally impaired . Second , there is the time it takes to reach a decision , which determines reaction-time  . RT furnishes a powerful constraint on models of decision-making , and is a defining element of the trade-off between speed and accuracy that characterizes most decisions . Third , decisions are often accompanied by a graded degree of belief in the accuracy or appropriateness of the choice . This belief , referred to as decision confidence , influences many aspects of behavior: how we learn from our mistakes , plan subsequent decisions , and communicate our decisions to others . A model of the decision process ought to explain not just choices but all three of these observables in a quantitative fashion . These models depict the decision process as a race between competing accumulators , each of which integrates momentary evidence for one alternative and against the others . The decision terminates when the accumulated evidence for one alternative , termed a decision variable  , reaches a threshold or bound , thereby determining both the choice and the decision time . Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the DV and the probability that a decision based on this DV will be correct . The mapping is thought to incorporate the decision time or the state of the competing  accumulator  , or both  . The noisiness of the momentary evidence causes the DV to wander from its starting point , as in Brownian motion or diffusion , whereas the expectation  of the momentary evidence increments or decrements the DV deterministically . Noise is the main determinant of both RT and confidence when signal-to-noise is low , that is when choices are more stochastic  . If the bounded accumulation of noisy evidence underlies choice accuracy , RT and confidence , then a selective manipulation of the noise should produce quantitatively consistent effects on all three measures . Specifically , were it possible to leave unchanged the expectation of each sample of momentary evidence while boosting the noise associated with it , then the bounded accumulation of the noisier samples should lead to  lower accuracy when the expectation of the momentary evidence is strong ,  faster reaction times when the momentary evidence is weak , and  increased confidence when the momentary evidence is weak . The basic insight behind the latter two predictions is that with greater volatility , the DV tends to diffuse more quickly away from the starting point to achieve levels nearer the termination bound which are ordinarily associated with stronger evidence and thus greater confidence  . Predicted influence of volatility on reaction time and confidence under bounded evidence accumulation . ev1  and ev2  represent the time course of momentary evidence , for stimuli of low and high volatility , respectively . In bounded accumulation models , momentary evidence is integrated over time , until the accumulated evidence  crosses one of two bounds , here at ± B . Illustration of the effect of volatility on the distribution of decision times , for two bounded accumulation models that have the same drifts and bound heights but different diffusion coefficients . As in the single trial example , higher variance leads to faster responses . Heat map depicting the association between the state of accumulated evidence and the probability that a decision rendered on this evidence is correct . Because the volatility of the stimulus is not explicitly represented in this map , higher volatility would lead to greater confidence , because the decision variable diffuses more quickly from the starting point , leading paradoxically to states that are normally associated with more reliable sources . A dissociation between accuracy and confidence led Rahnev et al . to conclude that cortical microstimulation  might affect both the mean and the variance of the representation of motion by neurons in the extrastriate visual cortex  . We achieved this with a manipulation of the motion information in a random dot motion  display , by adding a second level of randomness which increased its volatility but was unbiased with respect to the strength and direction of motion evidence . Neurons in these areas are known to represent the momentary evidence in tasks identical to those in our study  . We then used the volatility manipulation to test the influence of noise on the three observables of choice behavior—accuracy , RT and confidence—in monkeys and humans . The standard RDM stimulus is itself stochastic , meaning that a particular movie  is an instantiation of a random process that conforms to an expected motion strength and direction . The determination of displacement versus replacement is in accordance with a flip of a biased coin , and the magnitude of this bias confers the motion strength , which we refer to as a motion coherence  . The randomly replaced dots fall in the neighborhood of other dots  and thus contribute random motion in both directions . In the standard RDM , the coherence , c , is fixed for the duration of an experimental trial  . We will refer to trials that employ this doubly stochastic RDM as the 'high volatility' condition and those that use the standard RDM as 'low volatility' . Doubly stochastic random dot motion selectively influences the variance of evidence . Low and high volatility conditions are indicated by blue and red , respectively , in all panels . Motion strength as a function of time for example stimuli with low and high volatility . Left: the coherence parameter is 0 . 128 for both stimuli , but in the high volatility condition this is the mean of a Gaussian distribution  that is sampled on every video frame  . Right: motion energy in favor of the positive direction . Both volatility conditions yield variation in the motion information , but the red curve exhibits more variation . Mean and variance of the motion energy in support of the true direction of motion , computed separately for trials of low and high volatility  . For all motion strengths , the mean  is not affected by the volatility manipulation , whereas the variance is larger in the high volatility condition . Mean and variance of the neuronal response from direction selective neurons in areas MT/MST  . The volatility manipulation produced a small increase in the average firing rate at the low coherences  . This increase is likely due to the rectification of the noise by the nonlinear response of the neuron to motion in the preferred and anti-preferred directions , as sketched in the inset . The variance parallels the mean , but volatility has a more marked effect on variance at weak motion strengths . The mean of the difference variable  is similar for both volatility conditions  , whereas the variance of the difference variable  is greater under high volatility  . The correlation is negative because the opposing pools respond oppositely to fluctuations in the motion stimulus . Mean and variance of the neuronal response and of a difference variable between pools of neurons with opposite direction preferences . Variance of the momentary evidence from model fits . In addition to the estimate of variance from neural recordings , we used a 3-parameter characterization of the noise as a function of volatility and motion strength . The example is from the fit to behavioral data from monkey W in the reaction-time task . 006 This description explains how the stimulus is generated , but it does not explain what effect it should have on perception or on the neural processing of motion . The right panel of Figure 2A applies an established motion filter  to the example movies parameterized by the low and high volatility traces shown in the left panel  . The example highlights the subtlety of the volatility manipulation by reminding us that the standard RDM is itself volatile  such that the overall contour of both traces is similar . Example motion stimuli . The movie shows the low and high volatility examples depicted in Figure 2A . For illustration purposes , before showing the moving dots we indicate the coherence , volatility and direction of motion . 007 A more systematic analysis of the motion energy , displayed in Figure 2B , reveals that the mean is identical for low and high volatility stimuli , for all motion strengths  , whereas the variance is larger for the high volatility stimuli  . The linear relationship between the mean motion energy and c is known  , but the dependency of variance of the motion energy on c is less well characterized . For the low volatility condition  , the motion energy variance is dominated by the variance in the number of coherently displaced dots , which obeys a binomial distribution , hence the monotonic increase over the range of |c| = 0 to 0 . For the high volatility condition  , the overall increase in variance is not surprising , because we have added a second layer of variability . Note that the effect is strongest at the low coherences , where the distribution of c in the high volatility condition spans both positive and negative values . These observations characterize the volatility present in the visual stimulus , but we are mainly interested in the noisy signals that the brain accumulates to form a decision . We therefore measured the impact of volatility on the response of direction selective neurons in cortical areas MT/MST  . These neurons represent the momentary evidence used by monkeys to guide their choice , reaction time and confidence  in motion discrimination tasks . As previously shown  , the firing rate of MT neurons increases linearly , on average , as a function of motion strength in the neuron’s preferred direction  . The firing rate decreases linearly , but less steeply , as a function of motion strength in the anti-preferred direction  , giving rise to a bilinear function . These features are preserved under high volatility  , but there is a subtle increase in firing rate at the low coherences , which is explained by the rectification of neural responses when the distribution of c spans positive and negative values  . The high volatility condition adds to the variance in a manner that is exaggerated at the low motion strengths , consistent with the motion energy analysis above . We are now ready to consider the mean and variance of the quantity that is integrated toward a decision . We assume that the momentary evidence is the difference between the average firing rates from two pools of neurons with direction preferences for the two opposite directions   . The expectation of this signal can be estimated empirically by subtracting the mean firing rates of single neurons to motion in their preferred versus anti-preferred directions  . Second , the variance of the MT population comprises contributions from the variance in motion energy , described above , as well as a component that is independent of stimulus fluctuations . For a given coherence c and volatility v , the variance of the difference in neuronal response between a pair of populations selective to the preferred and anti-preferred directions is given by:  σΔ|c , v2=r  , where σc , v2 and σ−c , v2 are the variance of the spike counts for motion in the preferred and anti-preferred directions , r is the average pairwise correlation for neurons within the same pool , and ρ is the correlation between the two pools with opposite direction preferences . Under the low volatility condition , the variance of the difference variable increases slightly as a function of motion strength . More importantly , the doubly stochastic stimuli lead to a marked increase in σΔ2 , especially in the low coherence range where the impact on motion energy is greatest . From these complementary analyses of stimulus and neural response , we conclude that the volatility manipulation has negligible effects on the expectation of momentary evidence and more substantial effects on the variance , especially at weak motion strengths . In what follows we attempt to ascertain whether a change in the variance of the momentary evidence , introduced by our volatility manipulation , affects decision speed , accuracy , and confidence in accordance with the predictions of bounded evidence accumulation . One monkey  and three humans were required to decide between two possible directions of motion and , when ready , to indicate their decision by looking to one of two targets  . For both high and low volatility conditions , stronger motion led to faster and more accurate choices . The main effect of high volatility was to decrease RTs , particularly at the weakest motion strengths  . However , there was a significant effect of volatility on accuracy when pooling data across subjects and including data from the confidence tasks described below  . Effect of volatility on accuracy and reaction time . Choice-reaction time task . One monkey and three humans were required to make a decision about the net direction of motion in a dynamic random dot display . Subjects reported their decision by making a saccadic eye movement to the right  target for rightward  motion . They could report their decisions at any time after the onset of motion . Trials of different coherences and volatilities were randomly interleaved . Decision speed and accuracy . High volatility had only weak effects on accuracy  but shortened the reaction times for all subjects  , particularly at the low motion strengths . Solid traces are fits of a bounded evidence accumulation  model . Accuracy and reaction times from the choice-reaction time task . Accuracy in low and high volatility . Although the volatility manipulation led to only a subtle reduction in overall accuracy , which was not statistically reliable , we believe this is because the volatility manipulation was attenuated at intermediate and strong motion strengths  . high volatility . Each point represents a particular combination of subject and motion strength . 2% coherences are not shown . Same as A , but including trials from all experiments  . Indeed , the smooth curves are fits of this model to the data , where the variance of the momentary evidence is the only parameter that we allowed to change between conditions of high and low volatility  . The effect of increased volatility on RT is most apparent at motion strengths near zero , for two reasons:  the volatility manipulation has a larger impact on variance of the motion energy at the weak motion strengths  , and  the time to reach a bound is dominated by the variance of the momentary evidence , σΔ2 , when the motion strength is weak . These considerations also help to reconcile the contrast between the striking effects of volatility on RT versus subtle effects on choice accuracy: the volatility manipulation mainly affects the weakest motion strengths where accuracy is already poor  . The important point is that by increasing noise , the volatility manipulation accelerates the dispersion of the decision variable away from its expected value and nearer the termination bounds , hence faster RT . A similar idea guides intuitions about the effect of volatility on confidence in a decision . Confidence refers to the belief that a decision one is about to make  is likely to be correct . In the framework of bounded evidence accumulation , it can be formalized as the conditional probability of a correct choice given the state of the DV , which comprises the accumulated evidence and elapsed decision time  . For the motion discrimination task , this can be calculated by considering , for each possible state of the DV , the likelihood that it was the result of motion strength of the appropriate sign . We refer to this as a mapping between DV and probability correct  . It depends on the set of possible motion strengths  , the two possible volatility conditions , and the amount of time that has elapsed in the trial . We assume the subject has implicit knowledge of this mapping , and does not adjust it when a low or high volatility stimulus is shown . The latter seems justified because volatility levels were randomly interleaved and not cued or even mentioned to the subjects  . Increased volatility should affect confidence because it mimics an increase in the diffusion rate . Therefore , we predicted that volatility would increase confidence at low coherences , for the same reason that it speeds the RT . To test this prediction , we used two variants of the motion task , tailored to the abilities of monkeys and humans . Monkey D was trained on a motion discrimination task with post-decision wagering   . The monkey had to decide between two opposite directions of motion and report its decision after a memory delay . The monkey was rewarded for correct decisions and randomly on the 0% coherence trials . On half of the trials , the monkey had the opportunity to opt out of reporting the direction choice and to select instead a smaller but certain reward . The 'sure bet' option was not revealed until at least one-half second after motion offset  . The task design thus encouraged the monkey to perform the direction discrimination on every trial . After extensive experience with the standard RDM  , we introduced the high volatility RDM on a random half of the trials . Effect of volatility on post-decision wagering . Task . The monkey viewed the motion display for random duration , controlled by the computer , followed by a memory-delay period . Decision confidence and accuracy . Volatility did not affect accuracy systematically  , but the monkey waived the sure bet option more often on trials employing the high volatility display  , indicating greater confidence . The effect was concentrated at weak and intermediate motion strengths . Proportion of correct and waived direction choices as a function of motion strength and volatility condition in the PDW task . Accuracy and PDW behavior as a function of stimulus duration and sure-target availability . Accuracy in the direction discrimination task was better when the monkey waived the sure-bet target  than when it was not offered  . By opting out of the direction decision on trials in which the evidence seemed unreliable , the monkey improved its accuracy on trials in which it waived the sure bet option and answered left or right . Accuracy  and proportion of waived sure bet  , as a function of stimulus duration and coherence  . 013 In both low and high volatility conditions , the monkey made rational use of the sure bet , opting out more often for weaker motion  and for briefer stimuli  . When the sure bet was offered but waived , choice accuracy was higher than when the sure bet was not offered  . This indicates that the monkey was more likely to opt out of rendering its decision when the answer was more likely to be wrong . It implies that the decision to accept or waive the sure bet is based on the state of the evidence on the trial and not a general propensity associated with each motion strength  . The main question we wished to address is whether the high volatility condition would elicit fewer sure-bet choices , consistent with greater confidence . As shown in Figure 4B  , the proportion of trials the monkey decided to waive the sure-bet option  was greater on the high volatility trials  . Thus , high volatility increased the monkey’s confidence , and did so despite a negligible effect on accuracy  . Further , like its effect on RT , volatility affected PDW mainly when the motion was weak  . We confirmed the relationship between volatility and confidence in human participants . The RDM  was displayed for a fixed 200 ms on each trial , after which they reported the perceived direction of motion  and the confidence in their decision . Participants reported the choice and the confidence rating by looking at a particular position on one of two elongated targets  , where the left or right target specified the motion choice and the vertical position was used to indicate confidence . Naturally , subjects were more confident for high coherence stimuli  . They also reported higher confidence for the high volatility stimuli , and the effect was most apparent for the low coherence stimuli  . Effect of volatility on confidence rating . Task . Subjects viewed random dot motion for 200 ms and subsequently indicated a direction decision and confidence rating by looking at a left or right target  . Decision confidence and accuracy . Volatility again did not affect accuracy systematically  , but the three subjects issued higher confidence ratings on trials using the high volatility display . The effect was concentrated on the weak motion strengths . Decision confidence and accuracy in the human confidence task . 015 So far , the effect of volatility has been described qualitatively . Now we show how a single bounded accumulation model can account for the combined effect of motion strength and volatility on choice , accuracy and RT . In the model , choice , RT and confidence result from the accumulation of noisy momentary evidence as a function of time , until the integral of the evidence  reaches one of two bounds , or for the PDW and confidence tasks , until the stimulus is curtailed . Many studies make the simplifying assumption that the variance of the momentary evidence is fixed and independent of motion strength  . Then the difference between population responses would have the same variance for all motion strengths . However , the partial rectification  implies that the variance of the difference should increase as a function of motion strength . We characterize the dependency of the diffusion coefficient on motion strength and volatility based on the empirical observations of Figure 2 . These analyses showed that  the variance of the momentary evidence increases with motion strength , and  the difference in noise between volatility conditions is larger at 0% coherence and decays gradually for stronger motion . First , we assumed that in the low volatility condition , the variance of the momentary evidence increases linearly with motion strength  . Second , we modeled the additional variability introduced by the doubly-stochastic manipulation as a variance offset at 0% coherence that decays exponentially as motion strength increases  . The framework can explain confidence if we assume that the brain has implicit knowledge of  the state of the accumulated evidence ,  the elapsed deliberation time , and  the mapping of time and evidence to the probability of making a correct choice  . In PDW , a sure-bet choice supersedes a direction decision if the probability correct  is lower than a criterion Φ . In the human confidence task , probability correct is transformed into a confidence rating through a monotonic transformation  . In the confidence task , we fit one parameter per subject  . This parameter was fit to maximize the likelihood of the direction choices . The overall quality of the fits—across all tasks and both species—indicates that the influence of motion strength and volatility on choice , reaction time and confidence can be explained by a common mechanism of bounded evidence accumulation . Parameter fits for the three tasks . time  0 . time  0 . Up to now , we have attempted to explain the data on the assumption that subjects apply the same mapping between the accumulated evidence  and the probability that a decision rendered upon that evidence will be correct  , regardless of the volatility condition . As stated earlier , the mapping is derived from all possible motion strengths , directions , and volatility conditions . An alternative is that the brain infers an estimate of the noisiness of the stimulus , in real time , to adjust the parameters of the decision process  or the evaluation of confidence  . This is a reasonable proposition , at least in principle , because the sample mean and variance of the motion energy can be used to classify volatility conditions with 90% accuracy  . We evaluated several 'two map' models which apply a different mapping between the DV and probability correct for each volatility condition . The first two-map model implements the assumption that subjects have full and immediate knowledge of the volatility condition on each trial . Although the maps are qualitatively similar  , the consequence of having separate maps is to reduce the effect of volatility on confidence . Separate mappings between the DV and confidence for high and low volatility do not explain post-decision wagering . High and low volatility conditions would confer a different correspondence between accumulated evidence and probability correct . Iso-probability contours for the probability of a correct choice under low  and high  volatility . For the same stimulus duration , a larger excursion of the decision variable is required under high volatility to reach the same level of expected accuracy . Probability of waiving the sure bet as a function of motion coherence , shown separately for conditions of low and high volatility . Solid lines represent the best fitting ‘two-map’ model , which produce visibly worse fits than the model which relies on a single , common mapping for both volatility conditions  . Parameter fits for the alternative models . 92∆B0bound increase , high volatility0 . time  0 . time  0 . 16τSpeed of volatility information accrual  NANANANANA79 . For the second two-map model , the assessment of volatility is not instantaneous but evolves over the course of a trial . For simplicity , we assumed that the probability of correctly identifying the volatility condition increases monotonically at a rate determined by a free parameter  . For example , after 1 s of viewing , the weight assigned to the appropriate volatility map is just 1% . We also considered the possibility that subjects used different termination criteria  on low and high volatility trials . We also fit a model for the RT task that allowed the bounds to be different for the two volatility conditions . These analyses of alternative models support our assumption that subjects applied a common mapping and decision strategy on trials of low and high volatility . We do not believe this holds generally but is likely a consequence of the particular volatility manipulation and task designs we employed . Indeed , the normative strategy for several model tasks , which approximate those in our study , would apply different bounds and mappings to the two volatility conditions  . Hence , we do not know if our subjects performed suboptimally or if they were simply unable to identify the volatility conditions without adding additional costs  . The role of the neural data in this study was to validate and characterize the volatility manipulation in a population of neurons known to represent the momentary evidence used to inform decisions and confidence  . Trial-to-trial covariation between neural activity and behavior . The residuals are obtained by subtracting the average response to each motion strength and direction from the smoothed single-trial response . Separate averages are shown for low  and high  volatility trials . across trials . Difference in firing rate between the response to the preferred and the anti-preferred direction , for high-coherence trials . Trials of low and high volatility are shown in blue and red , respectively . Average of the firing rate residuals for trials in which the sure-bet target was chosen . For statistical power , we grouped trials from both volatility conditions . Neural responses are lower than average when the correct target is in the neurons’ preferred direction  , and above average when the motion is in the non-preferred direction  . Average firing rate residuals sorted by choice , shown separately for trials where the sure bet was  or was not  available . The average is greater when the sure bet was available but waived , consistent with the notion that the monkey waives the sure-bet target more often when the evidence appears to be stronger . 019 Consistent with earlier reports  , trial to trial variation in the activity of neurons in MT/MST were indicative of the choice that the monkey was about to make . Figure 7A shows averaged residual responses , formed by subtracting the mean response for each motion strength as a function of time and multiplying by ±1 if the monkey chose the preferred of anti-preferred direction , respectively . For both low and high volatility conditions , trial-to-trial variation in the neural response was reflected in the monkey’s choices . The fluctuations were more informative in the high volatility condition , presumably because they were induced by exaggerated variance in the motion display itself  . Notably , the time course of choice-related signals evolved with similar latencies in the low and high volatility conditions . The latencies were comparable to that of the direction selective signal itself  , suggesting that the choice was informed by the earliest motion information available in the stimulus  . The trial-by-trial variation in neural activity was also correlated with the decision to accept or waive the sure-bet option , when it was offered . Monkeys should opt out of the direction decision when the evidence is weak , and waive the sure bet when the evidence is strong . This implies that the monkey tended to opt out of the direction decision when the neural representation of the evidence was weaker than average . The difference between the two traces furnishes an estimate of the time course over which MT/MST neurons inform the decision to opt out . Notice the similarity in the time course of the choice and confidence signals  . The latency estimate derived from Figure 7C was unreliable  , but it was corroborated by a complementary analysis of the trials in which the monkey waived the sure bet  . Here we compared the average firing rate residuals on trials when the monkey waived the sure-bet option  with those on trials when the sure bet was not available  . We expect these traces to differ if the monkey waves the sure bet on trials when the neural responses are stronger . These results indicate that early motion evidence simultaneously informs both choice and confidence  . We have shown that a stimulus manipulation that increases the variance of the momentary evidence bearing on a decision—what we term volatility—increases both the speed of the decision and the confidence associated with it . Testing the influence of volatility on the decision process is difficult , because it requires independent control over the signal and the noise in the evidence . Our approach differs from recent studies that have attempted to vary evidence reliability through stimulus manipulations  in that we  applied the manipulation to a well studied motion task for which much is known about the underlying physiology;  verified the effect of the manipulation by recording from neurons in the visual cortex of the macaque , and  showed how a framework based on the bounded accumulation of evidence can account for the joint effect of volatility on choice , reaction time and confidence . The intuition is that increased volatility disperses the decision variable away from its expectation . For low coherences , it accelerates departure from the starting point  and closer to one of the decision bounds . These intuitions and our fits to the data rest on the assumption that subjects do not change their decision strategy based on the volatility of the evidence on a particular trial . On all trials , we assumed subjects applied the same termination policy  and the same mapping between the state of the evidence and confidence , for both volatility conditions as well as for all motion strengths  . We considered and rejected alternative models in which the brain uses volatility to adjust the mapping and/or the decision bound . In particular , if different mappings between DV and confidence were used for the low and high volatility conditions , a larger excursion of the DV would be required in the high volatility condition to reach the same level of confidence , predicting a pattern of post-decision wagering behavior that was not supported by our data  . In the RT task , volatility could be used to adjust the height of the decision bound in the face of lower reliability in order to maximize reward rate  . Indeed , the normative solution for a simplified version of the RT task is to increase the bound height on high volatility trials , which nevertheless leads to slightly faster responses than for low volatility trials when the motion is weak  . However , this idea presupposes knowledge of reliability on the trials , which ought to predict lower confidence in the high volatility condition . This does not mean humans and monkeys are incapable of using information about stimulus reliability or difficulty to adjust their decision policy , and perhaps they would have in other circumstances  . However , our experiment—in particular , the mixture of interleaved motion strengths and the volatility manipulation—is representative of a broad class of decisions for which the reliability of the evidence is unknown to the decision-maker before beginning deliberation and not readily apparent from a small number of samples . Such an evaluation must balance the benefits derived from the use of reliability to adjust the parameters of the decision process trial by trial , with the associated cost in time and effort . Even if subjects were cued explicitly about reliability , it is not clear that they would adjust the decision criteria on a trial-by-trial basis . In a detection task where the stimulus categories were signaled by an external cue , human subjects did not adjust the decision criterion to the levels used when each stimulus category was presented on its own  . Our volatility manipulation was more subtle than an explicit cue , but we do not doubt that our subjects could perform above chance in a 2AFC experiment if they were trained to identify the higher volatility stimulus among a pair sharing the same motion strength . If nothing else , they could monitor their own decision times and confidence . However , when a mixture of different levels of volatility are presented in a sequence of otherwise similar events  , subjects appear to combine trials of low and high volatility to form a single internal distribution with signed coherence as the only relevant dimension . Our results highlight limitations to the brain’s capacity to extract and exploit knowledge of volatility . Three humans and two monkeys performed one or more tasks where they had to make binary choices about the direction of motion of a set of randomly moving dots drawn in a circular aperture . When a dot disappeared , it was redrawn 40 ms later  either at a random location in the stimulus aperture or displaced in the direction of motion . We refer to trials where the probability of coherent motion is fixed within the trial as ‘low volatility’ , and trials where it varies within the trial as ‘high volatility’ . Trials of low and high volatility were uncued and randomly interleaved . We studied the relationship between volatility and decision speed with a reaction-time version of the random-dot motion discrimination task  . Three human participants completed 6631 trials  , and one macaque  completed 14 , 137 trials . Each trial started with subjects fixating on a central spot  for 0 . Then two targets  appeared on the horizontal meridian at an eccentricity of 9º to indicate the two possible directions of motion . 7 s  and were then presented with the motion stimulus , centered at fixation and subtending 5° of visual angle . 7 dots/deg2/s , and the displacement of the coherent dots was consistent with apparent motion of 5 deg/sec . Feedback was provided after each trial . Trials employing 0% coherence motion were deemed correct with probability ½ . A second monkey  was trained to perform a direction discrimination task with post-decision wagering  . After acquiring fixation , two targets appeared  to indicate the alternative directions of motion , followed by the motion stimulus after a variable time  . Motion viewing duration was sampled from a truncated exponential distribution  . After motion offset , the monkey had to maintain fixation for another 1 . 5 s from motion offset , positioned perpendicular to the axis of motion . Correct decisions led to a juice reward , and incorrect decisions led to a timeout  . By convention , positive motion coherences correspond to the preferred direction of motion of the recorded neurons . The relationship between volatility and confidence was also studied in a task that required explicit confidence reports . The left  target ought to be selected to indicate that the perceived direction of motion was to the left  . After a variable delay during which participants had to maintain fixation , the random dot motion stimulus was shown for a fixed duration of 200 ms . After motion offset , the subjects were required to indicate their response by directing the gaze to one target . Decisions were reported without time pressure and subjects were allowed to make multiple eye movements until they pressed the spacebar to accept the confidence and the choice . The same participants that completed the RT task performed the confidence task  . The electrode was advanced while the monkey viewed brief , high-coherence random-dot motion stimuli of different directions while fixating a central target . When direction tuning was sufficiently strong  , we proceeded with the PDW task , tailoring the stimulus to the neurons’ RF and tuning properties and aligning the choice targets with the axis of motion . In the model , noisy momentary evidence is accumulated until the integral of the evidence  reaches one of two bounds at ±B  , or until the motion stimulus is terminated by the experimenter . The momentary evidence comprises samples from a Gaussian distribution with mean κc and variance σv2  , where κ is a constant , c is the motion coherence , and v indicates whether the volatility is high or low . In most applications of diffusion models , the variance is assumed to be fixed and independent of motion strength , but our analyses of the motion energy and the neuronal recordings  , motivate a more complex dependence of variance on c and v . To capture these trends parsimoniously , we modeled the variance as a linear function of motion strength  σlow2  =1+β|c| plus an offset for the high volatility , which was maximal at c = 0 and diminishing at higher coherences:  σhigh2  =σlow2  +αe−γ|c| The three degrees of freedom  control the slope of the coherence dependence , the effect of volatility at c=0 , and its diminishing effect at higher coherence  . We constrained the variance in the high volatility condition to be monotonically increasing . For a given motion coherence and volatility  , the probability density function for the state of the decision variable  as a function of time  is given by a one-dimensional Fokker-Planck equation:  ∂p  ∂t=−κc∂p  ∂x+0 . Confidence is given by the probability of being correct given the state of the evidence  and elapsed time , which could either correspond to the time of bound-crossing or the stimulus duration if no bound was reached . Because the direction decision depends on the sign of x , the sign of the decision variable must equal the sign of the coherence for the choice to be correct , except for 0% coherence trials that are rewarded at random . This constitutes a mapping between the DV and probability correct , which is the basis for assignment of confidence to a decision  . In general we assume that the same mapping p  supports confidence ratings  on all trials irrespective of volatility , but evaluate this assumption using the alternative models described below . The data were fit to maximize the likelihood of the parameters given the choice , confidence and RTs observed on each trial . In the RT task , the model parameters were maximum likelihood fits to choice and RT:  ξ^RT=arg maxξRT ( ∑i=1Nlog ( p  ) ) where ξRT represents the model parameters for the RT task , i is the trial number and N is the total number of trials . The difference between the reaction time and the decision time is the non-decision latency , assumed to reflect sensory and motor delays unrelated to motion strength or volatility . of the decision times with the distribution of non-decision latencies . For the PDW task , the log likelihood is a sum of two terms ,  ξ^PDW=arg maxξPDW  where LS+  is the log-likelihood computed over trials with  the sure-bet target , and ξPDW are the model parameters . For trials without the sure target , the log-likelihood of the parameters is  LS−=∑i=1Nlog⁡ ( p  ) where the summation runs over trials without the sure target , and Ti is the duration of the stimulus on trial i . In the equation , p  is the probability that the decision variable  is positive at time T and that no bound has been reached before T . For trials where the sure-bet target was offered , we compute the likelihood of the parameters given the three possible responses in a trial: the two directional choices and the sure bet choice . We assumed that subjects opt out of reporting the direction choice and select the sure bet if the confidence in the decision is lower than a criterion , Φ , which was the same for conditions of low and high volatility . The bound parameters were constrained to be the same for the two volatility conditions , except in the alternative model for the RT task where we fit separate B0 for the two volatility conditions  . In the human confidence task , the presence of bounds did not improve the quality of the fits . This implies that subjects used all the stimulus information to inform their choices , presumably because the stimulus duration was only 0 . In the PDW , a stationary bound ( i . In the human confidence experiment , we do not know how each subject maps a position on the rating scale  to probability correct . Probability correct p  was obtained by marginalizing p  over the state of the evidence  at the time of decision termination  . Because we did not include a bound in the human confidence task , t is the stimulus duration  . For the PDW task , we explored three alternative 'two map' models . In the first , we used a different mapping between DV and confidence for each volatility condition . Each map is the one that should be used if the volatility condition of each trial were known  . For the second two-map model , the assessment of volatility develops gradually during the trial . We assume that for a trial i with stimulus duration Ti , the probability that the decision maker can identify the trial’s volatility is given by w  =1−e−Ti/τ . For trials where the sure bet was offered , we compute the probability of the action that was chosen by the monkey as a weighted average of the two probabilities: the probability that results from using a common map for both volatility conditions , which was weighted by ( 1−w  ) , and the probability obtained from using the mapping that corresponds to the appropriate volatility of the trial , which was weighted by w  . If τ is small , information about volatility builds up rapidly and the decision maker can use the appropriate map for each condition . Fitting the model to data showed that the volatility information develops very gradually , with w  being ~0 . 01 for a 1-s stimulus . For the third model , besides using different mappings between DV and confidence for the two volatility conditions , we also fit independent bounds , such that B0high = B0 +ΔB0 where B denotes bound height  . To examine whether high volatility leads to faster responses in the reaction time task , we fit a linear regression model for each subject where the reaction time is given by  RT=β0+β1|c|+β2Iv where Iv is an indicator variable for volatility  , and β’s are fitted coefficients . To evaluate the influence of volatility on accuracy , we used logistic regression , excluding trials of 0% coherence:  pcorrect=−1 The influence of volatility was evaluated with a likelihood-ratio test comparing models with and without the β2 term . We also used logistic regression to evaluate the effect of volatility on accuracy when pooling data across subjects and experiments:  pcorrect=−1 where Is , x are indicator variables for every combination of task and subject  . The first term in the argument of the exponential allows fitting a different intercept for each combination of task and subject , and the third term allows for different intercepts on high and low volatility trials . The significance of the influence of volatility on accuracy was evaluated with a likelihood ratio test comparing nested models with and without the β2 terms , with the test statistic evaluated against a χ2 distribution with n = 8 degrees of freedom . Similarly , to evaluate the influence of volatility on the monkey’s PDW behavior on trials where the sure bet was offered , we fit  pwaived=−1 where pwaived is the probability that the sure bet was declined , and Td is stimulus duration . We also examined whether availability of the sure bet influenced accuracy:  pcorrect=−1 where Is is 1 if the sure bet was offered , and 0 otherwise . A positive β4 indicates that the accuracy increases if the sure bet is offered but waived . In the human confidence task , we mapped subjects’ confidence reports to a 0–1 scale , such that ‘0’ stands for ‘guessing’ and ‘1’ for ‘full certainty’ . To evaluate the significance of the effect of volatility on confidence we fit for each subject the following linear regression model:  conf=β0+β1|c|+β2Iv While the motion coherence specifies the nominal strength of motion in the stimulus , the effective motion strength varies from trial to trial and even within trials , due to the random fluctuations in the stimulus . To extract the effective motion strength , we computed the motion energy in the stimulus  , following published procedures which we briefly review here . Each pair of filters is selective for one of the two alternative directions of motion  . Finally , we average across space to obtain a temporal signal , etr  , which quantifies how motion strength varies within each trial . Because the motion energy has arbitrary units , which varies , for instance , with the size of the stimulus , we normalized etr  multiplying it by a constant λ . The normalization constant was the same for all trials in a session , and was set such that the motion energy is , on average , equal to the motion coherence . This normalization is possible because the motion energy is a linear function of the motion coherence . The motion energy profile for etr  is shown in Figure 2A for an example trial . To characterize the mean and variance of the motion energy for high and low volatility  , we first computed the average motion energy for each trial , i . etr=⟨etr  ⟩t , ignoring the rise and decay times of the motion filters , that is from 50 ms after motion onset to 50 ms after offset . The mean and variance of etr was computed over subsets of trials grouped by motion coherence and volatility condition . We used logistic regression to determine if the motion energy profile of each trial of the PDW task contains enough information to identify the trial’s volatility . We calculated the mean  and an index of the dispersion  of the motion energy time course for each trial . The dispersion index was estimated as the variance of the distribution of motion energy values estimated at the frame rate , ignoring the autocorrelation in motion energy profile . Thus , etrv is more accurately described as a measure of dispersion of the motion energy profile on single trials rather than as an estimate of the variance . The mean and the dispersion of the motion energy were used together with the stimulus duration  to train a logistic regression model to classify the volatility condition of each trial:  pvtr=−1 where pvtr is the probability that trial tr is of high volatility . After fitting the logistic model , we estimated the degree of overlap in the distributions of pvtr between trials of low and high volatility . 895 , indicating that there is information in the stimulus to reliably estimate the volatility condition of each trial , even for the brief stimulus presentations used in the PDW task . To be clear , we do not put forward this calculation as a plausible model for inferring volatility . To investigate how the volatility manipulation affected the mean and variance of the neuronal response , we first counted spikes occurring between 100 ms and 200 ms from stimulus onset . To avoid artifacts produced by the response to the offset of the RDM stimulus , we restricted this analysis to trials where the motion stimulus was presented for at least 150 ms . Figure 2C shows the mean  and the variance  of str computed over the subset of trials given by every combination of motion coherence and volatility condition . These analyses furnished empirical estimates of the mean and variance of the spike count as a function of motion strength and direction . The expectation of this difference variable  can be estimated empirically:  μΔ|c , v = μc , v−μ−c , v where c and -c indicate motion in the preferred and anti-preferred direction of the neuron , for motion strength c . Further , there is a portion of the variance that is shared between neurons tuned to the preferred and anti-preferred directions . For the analysis of Figure 7B we computed , for each neuron , the difference in firing rate between the response to the preferred and the non-preferred directions , for trials of the highest coherence  . This difference was used to estimate the latency with which motion information is represented in these neurons , regardless of the choice . For the analyses of Figure 7A , C , D , we obtained the residuals of firing rate by subtracting , from each trial and time step , the average firing rate of the same neuron on trials having the same motion direction , coherence and volatility . To group trials across neurons , we divided the activity of each neuron by a normalization constant , given by the maximum average firing rate at the highest coherence  . 
The insulin-like signaling pathway maintains a relatively short wild-type lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans by phosphorylating and inactivating DAF-16 , the ortholog of the FOXO transcription factors of mammalian cells . DAF-16 is phosphorylated by the AKT kinases , preventing its nuclear translocation . Calcineurin  also limits the lifespan of C . Herein , we show that TAX-6•CNB-1 and UNC-43 , the C . elegans Calcineurin and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II  orthologs , respectively , also regulate lifespan through DAF-16 . Moreover , UNC-43 regulates DAF-16 in response to various stress conditions , including starvation , heat or oxidative stress , and cooperatively contributes to lifespan regulation by insulin signaling . However , unlike insulin signaling , UNC-43 phosphorylates and activates DAF-16 , thus promoting its nuclear localization . The phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S286 by UNC-43 is removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 , leading to DAF-16 inactivation . Mammalian FOXO3 is also regulated by CAMKIIA and Calcineurin . elegans  . The best characterized is the IIS pathway , which includes the upstream insulin/IGF-1 receptor DAF-2 and the downstream FOXO transcription factor DAF-16 . Signals from DAF-2 are transmitted through AGE-1  and PDK-1  to AKT-1 , AKT-2 , and SGK-1 , which phosphorylate DAF-16 and prevent it from translocating to the nucleus to activate a pro-longevity gene network . Reduction-of-function mutations of the kinase genes in the IIS pathway , from daf-2 to akt-1 , akt-2 , and sgk-1 , all extend lifespan in a daf-16-dependent manner  . DAF-18 , the C . The phosphatase for DAF-2 has not been identified , nor the one that regulates DAF-16 . The longevity phenotype of tax-6  is partially dependent on daf-16  . In the current work , we addressed how worm Calcineurin TAX-6•CNB-1 regulates lifespan . We discovered that DAF-16 was phosphorylated and activated by UNC-43 at the serine 286  site . The phosphoryl group was removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 . UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 therefore regulate C . elegans lifespan through the reversible phosphorylation of DAF-16 . This regulatory mechanism has a different mode of action from the canonical IIS pathway because the phosphorylation activates , rather than represses , DAF-16 . Activation of DAF-16 by UNC-43 occurs in response to different types of stress signals , such as heat , starvation , and oxidation . UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 can regulate DAF-16 independently of IIS , and the two signaling mechanisms appear to crosstalk , leading to coordinated action on DAF-16 . We also show that the regulation of FOXO by CAMKII and Calcineurin is conserved in mammalian cells . A genetic analysis has shown that a daf-16  allele partially suppresses the longevity of the tax-6  mutant  . This observation suggested that daf-16 is either a direct or indirect downstream target of C . To sort through these possibilities , we immunoprecipitated the 3xFLAG::DAF-16 protein using an anti-FLAG antibody from the lysate of MQD82 , a transgenic worm strain that expresses this fusion protein and TAX-6::GFP  . TAX-6::GFP from this lysate was co-precipitated with the FLAG antibody  , but no TAX-6::GFP was co-precipitated from the lysate of MQD2 , a strain expressing only TAX-6::GFP  . From the mixed lysates of two other transgenic strains , one expressing 3xFLAG::DAF-16 and the other expressing GFP , the GFP protein also failed to be precipitated by the FLAG antibody  . This result suggested that TAX-6 and DAF-16 interacted with each other in vivo . To determine whether the interaction was direct , we individually purified the recombinant His-tagged DAF-16 and C . elegans Calcineurin in the form of TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 and then mixed them together before pulling down DAF-16 with nickel beads . Indeed , TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 was pulled down successfully using His-tagged DAF-16  . Further analysis suggested that the C-terminal region of DAF-16 mediates the interaction with Calcineurin  . Together , these results raised the interesting possibility that Calcineurin might directly regulate DAF-16 in C . elegans . elegans Calcineurin TAX-6•CNB-1 directly binds to DAF-16 and negatively regulates DAF-16 nuclear localization . DAF-16 and TAX-6 form a complex in vivo . Immunoprecipitation of 3xFLAG::DAF-16 expressed under the daf-16 promoter in WT C . elegans pulled down TAX-6::GFP expressed under the tax-6 promoter . Calcineurin directly binds to DAF-16 . Purified recombinant TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 was pulled down with Ni-NTA beads through its interaction with purified His-tagged DAF-16 . The C-terminal region of DAF-16 most likely mediates the interaction with Calcineurin . GST-DAF-16  , but not GST , GST-DAF-16  or GST-DAF-16  , pulled down TAX-6::GFP expressed in C . elegans  . The DAF-16 C-terminal region alone was not stable . DAF-16::6xHis::GFP is diffusely distributed in the WT animals but concentrated in the nucleus in tax-6  animals . 003 In WT animals , DAF-16 is phosphorylated by AKT and diffusely distributed throughout the cell , whereas in long-lived IIS mutants , transcriptionally active DAF-16 accumulates in the nucleus  . To determine whether DAF-16 translocates to the nucleus in long-lived Calcineurin mutants , we expressed DAF-16::6xHis::GFP using a daf-16 promoter in the tax-6  background . The functionality of this transgene was verified in daf-2  ;daf-16  animals; the double mutant expressing this transgene displayed the dauer formation-constitutive  and longevity phenotypes of the daf-2  single mutant  . DAF-16::6xHis::GFP clearly accumulated in the nuclei of different types of cells in tax-6   , similar to daf-2  and akt-1;akt-2  mutants  . The above results strongly suggested that Calcineurin directly inhibited DAF-16 , presumably by dephosphorylating it . This result is in contrast to the transmission of IIS signaling to DAF-16 , during which phosphorylation of DAF-16 by AKT inhibits its nuclear accumulation . Thus , AKT and Calcineurin regulate the phosphorylation of different sites on DAF-16; otherwise , tax-6  would have a lifespan phenotype opposite to that of akt-1;akt-2  or daf-2  . Therefore , Calcineurin must counteract a different kinase that activates DAF-16 . We reasoned that nuclear accumulation of DAF-16 in the tax-6  background should be dependent on a kinase that initiated the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of DAF-16 . Inactivation of this kinase should abolish the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16::GFP in tax-6  animals . We thus conducted an RNAi screen of kinase genes using the DAF-16::6xHis::GFP reporter in tax-6  worms , in which the GFP signal accumulates in the nucleus  . We obtained from the Ahringer library a strong suppressor of nuclear DAF-16::GFP in an RNAi clone that targets unc-43  . The suppression was confirmed by an independent , homemade unc-43 RNAi construct  . elegans  . UNC-43 and Calcineurin have opposing functions in locomotion and egg laying , two behavioral phenotypes that are regulated by G protein signaling  . The effect of tax-6  mutations on DAF-16 localization and lifespan requires unc-43 , the CAMKII gene whose effect opposes that of tax-6 . unc-43 RNAi abolished DAF-16 nuclear accumulation in tax-6  . Adult stage RNAi knockdown of tax-6 extended the WT lifespan   but may have slightly shortened the lifespan of unc-43  , a putative null mutant   . A constitutively active gain-of-function mutation , unc-43  , caused DAF-16::6xHis::GFP to accumulate in the nucleus  and extended lifespan in a largely daf-16-dependent manner  . 001 for daf-16  ;unc-43  vs daf-16  or unc-43  . The unc-43  ;cnb-1  double mutant has a longer lifespan than both the unc-43  and cnb-1  mutants , and all three mutant strains live longer than WT animals . 001 for unc-43  ;cnb-1  vs unc-43  and cnb-1  . The unc-43  mutant showed a WT-like lifespan that was epistatic to the longevity effect of tax-6  , while the unc-43  mutant was long-lived . The lifespan extension by tax-6 RNAi required unc-43 . The longevity of unc-43  was largely dependent on daf-16 . The unc-43  ;cnb-1  double mutant lived longer than either single mutant . A screen for the kinase  required for the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16::GFP induced by tax-6  . An unc-43 RNAi clone from the Ahringer library suppressed the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16::GFP induced by tax-6  . 007 To verify that UNC-43 and Calcineurin regulate DAF-16 antagonistically , we examined whether unc-43  could suppress the longevity of Calcineurin loss-of-function mutants and whether unc-43  had the same phenotype as tax-6  . Although RNAi knockdown of tax-6 during adulthood increased the lifespan of WT worms  , it failed to increase the lifespan of unc-43  animals  . This observation is consistent with the hypothesis that Calcineurin removes the activating phosphorylation on DAF-16 caused by UNC-43 . This unc-43  allele caused DAF-16::6xHis::GFP to accumulate in the nucleus  , phenocopying tax-6   . Furthermore , the unc-43  mutant lived 80% longer than the WT animals , and this lifespan extension was largely dependent on daf-16  . Consistent with UNC-43 activating DAF-16 to prolong lifespan and TAX-6•CNB-1 antagonizing such action , we found that the unc-43  ;cnb-1  double mutant lived even longer than either single mutant  . To determine whether UNC-43 activated DAF-16 through NSY-1  and SEK-1  , we treated unc-43  worms expressing the DAF-16::6xHis::GFP transgene with nsy-1 and sek-1 RNAi and found that neither gene affected DAF-16 nuclear accumulation induced by unc-43   . sek-1 regulates DAF-16 localization in response to oxidative stress  . To ascertain the role of sek-1 in the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16 induced by unc-43  , we crossed the DAF-16::6xHis::GFP animal to a unc-43  ;sek-1  double mutant . Similar to the RNAi treatment , the km4  allele of sek-1 failed to prevent DAF-16 nuclear localization in unc-43  animals  . Moreover , the unc-43  ;sek-1  double mutant did not live a shorter life than unc-43  animal  . Thus , we conclude that UNC-43 does not activate DAF-16 through the NSY-1/SEK-1 MAP kinase pathway . UNC-43 does not regulate DAF-16 localization through the NSY-1/SEK-1 MAPK kinase pathway . RNAi knockdown of nsy-1 , sek-1 , and pmk-2 failed to block the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16::6xHis::GFP in unc-43  mutants . Similar to sek-1 RNAi , the sek-1  mutation did not eliminate DAF-16 nuclear localization in unc-43  worms . km4 , a null allele of sek-1 , did not shorten the lifespan of WT or unc-43  animals . 047 for unc-43  ; sek-1  vs unc-43  . km4 , the null allele of sek-1 , did not shorten the lifespan of unc-43  worms . 009 To test whether DAF-16 is a direct substrate of UNC-43 , we constructed transgenic strains that co-expressed 3xHA::UNC-43 and 3xFLAG::DAF-16  or expressed either 3xHA::UNC-43  or 3xFLAG::DAF-16  under the control of own promoter . The 3xHA::UNC-43 protein was found in the immunoprecipitate of 3xFLAG::DAF-16 and vice versa  , suggesting that UNC-43 and DAF-16 can form a complex in vivo . Using purified recombinant proteins , we found that GST-UNC-43 but not GST or calmodulin  , was pulled down by nickel beads via 6xHis-DAF-16  . UNC-43 directly binds to and phosphorylates DAF-16 . 3xHA::UNC-43 co-immunoprecipitated with 3xFLAG::DAF-16 and  vice versa from lysates of transgenic C . UNC-43 can directly bind to DAF-16 . Purified GST-UNC-43 but not CAM or the GST control was pulled down by Ni-NTA beads through its interaction with 6xHis-DAF-16 . –  In vitro kinase assays in the presence of -γ-ATP , in which purified GST-UNC-43 directly phosphorylated His-tagged DAF-16  or DAF-16  fragments  . 010 We then asked whether UNC-43 phosphorylates DAF-16 . We performed an in vitro kinase assay using purified GST-UNC-43 , Ca2+/CAM , and 6xHis-DAF-16 in the presence of -γ-ATP . GST-UNC-43 readily phosphorylated DAF-16 in vitro  . To map the phosphorylation site  , truncated DAF-16 proteins were used as kinase substrates . UNC-43 phosphorylated the DAF-16 N-F fragment  but not the N-terminal fragment   , suggesting that the phosphorylation site  resides in the region containing the forkhead domain  and/or the C-terminal region  . A mass spectrometry  analysis of the full-length 6xHis-DAF-16 after the in vitro kinase reaction identified two DAF-16 residues T240 and S286 that were phosphorylated by UNC-43  . Using these antibodies , we verified that DAF-16 was indeed phosphorylated by UNC-43 at T240 and S286 in vitro  . UNC-43 phosphorylates S286 of DAF-16 , and TAX-6•CNB-1 removes this modification . A mass spectrum  of a DAF-16 peptide phosphorylated at S286 by UNC-43 in vitro . UNC-43 in vitro kinase assays with purified WT or S286A 6xHis-DAF-16 as substrate . DAF-16 phosphorylation was detected with antibodies specific for either phospho-T240  or phospho-S286  . UNC-43 phosphorylates DAF-16 at S286 but not T240 in vivo . Phosphorylated DAF-16::6xHis::GFP was immunoprecipitated from unc-43  or unc-43  animals using antibodies specific for either phospho-S286  or phospho-T240  and visualized by blotting with an anti-GFP antibody . Transgenic strains expressing S286A or T240A DAF-16::6xHis::GFP served as negative controls . All strains carry the daf-16 null allele mu86 in the background . TAX-6•CNB-1 dephosphorylates DAF-16 specifically at S286 . Purified 6xHis-DAF-16 was phosphorylated by UNC-43 in vitro and then incubated with purified TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 after heat inactivation of UNC-43 . Phospho-T240 , phospho-S286 , and total DAF-16 levels were assayed by western blotting . Mass spectrum showing a DAF-16 peptide phosphorylated at T240 , one of the sites phosphorylated by UNC-43 in vitro . 012 To confirm whether DAF-16 is phosphorylated in vivo at both sites in an UNC-43-dependent manner , we immunoprecipitated phospho-DAF-16::6xHis::GFP from daf-16  ;unc-43  or daf-16  mutants using the phospho-DAF-16-specific antibodies and followed with anti-GFP immunoblotting . Interestingly , there was a marked increase of DAF-16 S286 phosphorylation , but not T240 phosphorylation , in the unc-43  mutant  . We thus concluded that UNC-43 phosphorylates DAF-16 specifically on S286 . Apparently , T240 phosphorylation by UNC-43 does not occur in vivo under the tested condition . To test whether TAX-6 dephosphorylates DAF-16 at S286 , we phosphorylated recombinant DAF-16 in vitro with UNC-43 and then incubated it with purified TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 . As shown in Figure 5F , phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S286 was dramatically reduced by TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 , while phosphorylation of T240 remained unchanged . To validate the role of S286 in UNC-43- and TAX-6-regulated DAF-16 localization and longevity , we introduced the DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP transgene into daf-16  ;unc-43  and daf-16  ;tax-6  mutants . While DAF-16::6xHis::GFP accumulated in the nuclei of tax-6  and unc-43  mutants , DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP distributed diffusely throughout the cell in the same mutant backgrounds  , and the pattern resembled that of DAF-16::6xHis::GFP in WT worms  . elegans whose WT copy of DAF-16 was replaced by DAF-16  , the lifespan extension by either unc-43  or tax-6  was greatly suppressed  . Thus , the S286 residue is required for DAF-16-dependent effects of unc-43  and tax-6  , verifying that S286 is the regulatory site . In comparison , the constitutive nuclear localization phenotype of DAF-16  contradicts with the idea that UNC-43 phosphorylates T240 to promote DAF-16 nuclear accumulation  . Rather , it corroborates the observation that UNC-43 does not phosphorylate T240 in vivo  . Phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S286 induces the nuclear accumulation of DAF-16 and extends lifespan . The S286A mutation prevented DAF-16::6xHis::GFP from accumulating in the nucleus in unc-43   or tax-6  animals  . Unlike the DAF-16::6xHis::GFP transgene , DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP failed to restore the long lifespan in daf-16  ;unc-43   or daf-16  ;tax-6  mutants  . 001 for unc-43  vs daf-16;unc-43  ;hqEx182 in  and tax-6  vs . daf-16;tax-6  ;hqEx221 in  . The S286D mutation caused DAF-16::6xHis::GFP to accumulate in the nucleus  and extended lifespan in the daf-16  background  . 001 , daf-16;hqEx174/168 vs . daf-16;hqIs9 in  . 2 hr of heat stress at 28°C , 5 min of paraquat treatment , or 20 hr of food deprivation induced nuclear accumulation of DAF-16::6xHis::GFP in the WT animals but not the unc-43  mutants  . The DAF-16  mutation largely suppressed the longevity induced by either unc-43  or tax-6  , while the DAF-16  mutation extended lifespan . Mutation of DAF-16 S286 to A partially suppressed the unc-43  induced longevity . Mutation of DAF-16 S286 to A partially suppressed the longevity of tax-6  . daf-16  animals expressing DAF-16  ::GFP had a longevity phenotype . UNC-43 does not phosphorylate T240 in vivo to promote DAF-16 nuclear accumulation . DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP accumulated in the intestinal nuclei even in the absence unc-43  . This is incompatible with T240 being the UNC-43 phosphorylation site because mutating such a site to alanine was expected to inhibit DAF-16 nuclear accumulation . 80% of the worms expressing a GFP-tagged DAF-16  mutant protein under a daf-16 promoter in the unc-43  ;daf-16  background arrested as dauers , and the GFP signal was predominantly in the head neurons . These animals displayed a strong nuclear accumulation of DAF-16  in body-wall muscles and hypodermis but a weakened nuclear accumulation in the intestine compared to those expressing WT DAF-16 . In comparison , the S286A mutation prevented DAF-16 from accumulating in the nucleus when expressed in the same background  . Similar expression levels of DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP and DAF-16::6xHis::GFP in three strains used in Figure 6F . 016 To mimic phosphorylation by UNC-43 , we mutated DAF-16 S286 to aspartic acid . When expressed in daf-16  animals , the DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP protein accumulated in the nucleus , whereas the WT DAF-16::6xHis::GFP protein was cytoplasmic , as expected  . Moreover , the phosphomimetic of DAF-16 , but not the WT version , significantly increased the C . elegans lifespan in daf-16  animals  . The effect was not due to higher protein amounts of DAF-16  because DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP and DAF-16::6xHis::GFP were expressed at similar levels in these transgenic animals  . Taken together , the S286D mutation mimicked the effect of unc-43  and tax-6  on DAF-16 , whereas the S286A mutation of DAF-16 blocked the effects of unc-43  and tax-6  . Thus , phosphorylation of S286 is critical for CAMKII and Calcineurin to regulate DAF-16 localization and longevity . S286 is different from the known AKT phosphorylation sites  of DAF-16  . Therefore , UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 most likely respond to conditions that are distinct from the conditions sensed by AKT in the IIS pathway . In addition to mutations that reduce insulin signaling , various stress conditions , including thermal stress , oxidative stress , and starvation , can trigger translocation of DAF-16 to the nucleus  . Transcriptional activation of these target genes by nuclear DAF-16 helps the organism cope with stress , and daf-16 mutant worms survive stressful conditions less well than WT worms  . To test whether UNC-43 is required for transmitting stress signals to DAF-16 , we crossed DAF-16::6xHis::GFP into unc-43  and compared these animals to WT animals carrying the same transgene . At 20°C , DAF-16::6xHis::GFP displayed a cytoplasmic pattern in either WT or unc-43  animals . When these worms were transferred to 28°C , DAF-16::6xHis::GFP accumulated in the nucleus in WT worms but remained cytoplasmic in unc-43  animals  . Similarly , starvation and paraquat , a chemical that generates reactive oxygen species  inside the cells , caused DAF-16 to translocate to the nucleus in WT but not unc-43  worms  . The results demonstrated that unc-43 is required for nuclear accumulation of DAF-16 in response to different types of stress . The site of DAF-16 that is phosphorylated by CAMKII is different from the site that is phosphorylated by AKT . Moreover , phosphorylation by AKT and CAMKII has opposite effects on DAF-16 activity  . In agreement with this hypothesis , reduced IIS and increased phosphorylation of DAF-16 S286 , either by unc-43  or tax-6  , displayed an additive effect on lifespan  . First , an unc-43 null allele shortened the daf-2 lifespan by 31%  , indicating that unc-43 is required for full lifespan extension by daf-2  . This result suggests that part of the signaling from DAF-2 is mediated by UNC-43 . However , phosphorylation of DAF-16 S286 seems nonessential for the longevity of daf-2 animals  , suggesting that an additional UNC-43 target  is involved in DAF-2 signaling . Second , in the constitutively active unc-43  mutant , which has increased phosphorylation on DAF-16 S286  , phosphorylation by AKT on T240 is greatly reduced  . The AKT kinase activity may be reduced in unc-43  , or phospho-S286 DAF-16 may be a poor substrate for AKT . In either case , dampened phosphorylation on the AKT site may be expected to prevent DAF-16 from forming a complex with the 14-3-3 protein , which has been shown to bind to and sequester AKT-phosphorylated FOXO  in the cytoplasm  . Consistently , we found that unc-43  reduced the amount of DAF-16-associated 14-3-3 without affecting the total amount of 14-3-3  . It remains to be seen whether S286 phosphorylation directly or indirectly promotes DAF-16 nuclear accumulation . The longevity of daf-2 mutants was partially suppressed by unc-43  and further enhanced by unc-43  or tax-6  . unc-43  , a gain-of-function allele  , and tax-6  , a null allele  , each extended lifespan in the WT background and further enhanced the longevity of daf-2  animals . The daf-2  ;unc-43  double mutant lived a significantly shorter life than daf-2  , while the unc-43  mutant had a WT-like lifespan . 001 for WT vs tax-6  or unc-43  , unc-43  ;daf-2  vs . daf-2  or unc-43  , and tax-6  ;daf-2  vs . daf-2  or tax-6  . 001 for daf-2 vs . daf-2;unc-43  , p=0 . 61 for unc-43  vs . The long lifespan of daf-2  animals was further extended by either unc-43  or tax-6  , but shortened by unc-43  . Both unc-43  and tax-6  further increased the lifespan of daf-2 RNAi animals . unc-43 was partially required for the long lifespan of daf-2 animals . The DAF-16 S286A mutation appears not to affect the daf-2 longevity . The DAF-16 S286A mutation appears not to affect daf-2 longevity . –  Two repeat experiments showing similar lifespan extension by daf-2 RNAi of daf-16  worms expressing DAF-16::6xHis::GFP  or DAF-16  ::6xHis::GFP  . In the unc-43  mutant , in which DAF-16 accumulates in the nucleus , the amount of DAF-16/14-3-3 complex is reduced . DAF-16::6xHis::GFP was immunoprecipitated from worms carrying a WT or the gf allele of unc-43 . The amount of 14-3-3 present in the lysate and that associated with DAF-16::6xHis::GFP were visualized by WB using an antibody that recognizes both 14-3-3 proteins  in C . elegans . 020 While IIS and CAMKII/Calcineurin signaling act largely in parallel with each other , it is unclear what would happen if one pathway was in a state to inhibit DAF-16 while the other pathway was in a state that would activate it . To genetically mimic this scenario , we combined daf-2 RNAi with either unc-43  or tax-6  , a constitutively active tax-6  allele in which the autoinhibitory domain was deleted  . DAF-16::GFP was cytoplasmic in unc-43  or tax-6  , but nuclear DAF-16::GFP was clearly visible above the cytoplasmic background in daf-2  , daf-2  ;unc-43  , or daf-2  ;tax-6  mutants  . We also combined daf-18 RNAi , which enhances IIS to inhibit DAF-16  , with unc-43  or tax-6  , which activates DAF-16 . In both cases , the nuclear accumulation induced by unc-43  or tax-6  was greatly diminished by daf-18 RNAi  . Therefore , under conditions in which there is a conflict between IIS and CAMKII/Calcineurin signaling toward DAF-16 , the insulin signaling pathway appears to dominate . Insulin signaling overpowers CAMKII and Calcineurin in regulation of DAF-16 localization in C . elegans . tax-6  or unc-43  failed to abolish DAF-16 nuclear accumulation induced by daf-2  . tax-6  or unc-43  failed to overcome the inhibition of DAF-16 nuclear localization by daf-18  . A model showing the regulation of DAF-16  by insulin signaling , UNC-43  , and TAX-6•CNB-1  . 021 Based on the experimental evidence above , we propose a model  in which DAF-16 integrates hormonal signals and stress signals transmitted by the IIS pathway  and CAMKII  , respectively . CAMKII and the counterbalancing phosphatase Calcineurin  act in parallel and coordinately with the IIS pathway to regulate DAF-16 activity . Sequence analysis of FOXO proteins revealed that DAF-16 S286 , the CAMKII phosphorylation site , is widely conserved in nematode species , zebra fish , frogs , mice , and humans  . It is equivalent to S298 of mouse FOXO3  and S299 of human FOXO3   , and may be the equivalent of S303 of human FOXO1 or S300 of mouse FOXO1  . Such conservation suggests that mammalian FOXO proteins are likely regulated by CAMKII and Calcineurin . CAMKII and Calcineurin regulate phosphorylation of mouse FOXO3 at S298 . The region containing DAF-16 T240 and S286 is shown . T240 is conserved in all FOXO homologs . The DAF-16 or mouse FOXO3 residues phosphorylated in vitro by UNC-43 or CAMKIIA are boxed , with amino acid positions shown above or below . Immunoprecipitation of FLAG-FOXO3 pulled down both CAMKII isoforms  and Calcineurin  . CAMKIIA phosphorylates FOXO3 at S298 in vivo . Analysis of FOXO3 phosphorylation sites in vivo . In vitro Calcineurin phosphatase assay on FOXO3 . The P2 fragment of mouse FOXO3 that was phosphorylated by CAMKIIA in vitro and then incubated with Calcineurin after inactivation of the kinase . However , only mFOXO3 S298 , which corresponds to DAF-16 S286 , had a significant increase in phosphorylation when cells were co-transfected with CAMKIIA  . S252 in mouse FOXO3 or S253 in human FOXO3 , the counterpart of DAF-16 T240  , is a highly conserved AKT phosphorylation site  . Moreover , Calcineurin can reduce the phosphorylation of the FOXO3-P3 fragment  by CAMKIIA , but not that of the P2 fragment   . elegans  . Serine 300 of mouse FOXO1 , the equivalent of S298 of mouse FOXO3 , is not among them  . and suggests that CAMKII directly phosphorylates FOXO3 but not FOXO1 in mammals . Lastly , we determined whether CAMKII and Calcineurin regulate the transcriptional activity of FOXO3 . From these results , we conclude that CAMKIIA and Calcineurin oppose each other in regulating the transcriptional activity of mouse FOXO3 through phosphorylation or dephosphorylation at S298 . CAMKII and Calcineurin regulate the transcriptional activity of FOXO3 . Co-transfection of CAMKIIA stimulated the transcriptional activity of WT FOXO3 but not the FOXO3  mutant . WT but not an inactive T286A mutant CAMKIIA , transcriptionally activated FOXO3 . FOXO3 was transcriptionally inhibited by Calcineurin A , and further inhibited if Calcineurin A and Calcineurin B were both expressed . 026 Our data suggest that CAMKII  and Calcineurin  , by phosphorylating or de-phosphorylating serine 286 of DAF-16 , extend or shorten the lifespan of C . elegans . The direct , antagonistic nature of these two enzymes also raised an interesting possibility that , with their opposing effects on DAF-16 and a common activating signal  , UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 would constitutively negate each other and have essentially no control of DAF-16 . TAX-6 and CNB-1 , similar to DAF-16 , are expressed in most cells in C . elegans  . In contrast , unc-43 promoter-driven GFP was only detected in neurons and the intestine  . We also detected UNC-43 primarily in the nervous system  . In contrast , the CFP::UNC-43 fusion protein is concentrated on perinuclear structures and clusters in neurites  . Therefore , in the case of the simultaneous activation of CAMKII and Calcineurin by Ca2+/CAM , either the kinase or the phosphatase could dominate the regulation of DAF-16 either locally  or for certain time windows . This balance likely fine-tunes the DAF-16 activity in response to a changing environment . It is likely that UNC-43/Calcineurin is responsible for activating DAF-16 when worms experience a variety of stress signals , including heat stress , oxidative stress , or prolonged starvation  . Food deprivation acts through UNC-43 to suppress spontaneous sex-muscle contraction in C . To date , DAF-16 is the only biochemically and genetically proven substrate of TAX-6•CNB-1 , but it is not the only substrate involved in lifespan regulation by Calcineurin . Regardless , the discoveries made thus far jointly provide a good explanation for the large but incomplete suppression of tax-6  longevity by daf-16   . Rabbit α-HA and monoclonal mouse α-DAF-16 antibodies were made at the antibody center of the NIBS , Beijing . To produce the DAF-16 antibody , full-length DAF-16b was cloned into the His-tag vector pET-28a , expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 , and purified by Ni-NTA resin  . Rabbit α-DAF-16b  and α-DAF-16b  antibodies were custom made and affinity purified at Abmart  using the synthetic DAF-16 phospho-peptides ‘RERSN  IETTT-C’ and ‘SIQTI  HDLYD-C , ’ respectively . The daf-16 constructs were subcloned and further modified from a Pdaf-16::daf-16b::gfp construct described previously   . The GST-CNB-1 and TAX-6 bacterial expression constructs were modified from the GST-CNB-1 and GST-TAX-6 plasmids reported before  . The unc-43 expression constructs were made from unc-43 cDNAs that were amplified from a C . GST-CNB-1 and TAX-6 were co-expressed in E . GST-DAF-16  and GST-DAF-16  were purified in the same manner . Recombinant GST-UNC-43 was purified as described above but using a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl , pH 7 . Recombinant 6xHis-DAF-16 and 6xHis-DAF-16-6AM were expressed in BL21 and affinity purified using Ni-NTA agarose resin  in buffer containing 20 mM HEPES , pH 7 . pTL13 is an RNAi construct targeting unc-43 , which we generated by inserting a 332-bp cDNA fragment of unc-43 into the multiple cloning sites of pAD12 . To examine the interaction between DAF-16 and TAX-6 , 6xHis-DAF-16 was incubated with purified TAX-6•GST-CNB-1 complex in the presence of 2 μg CAM and 30 μl pre-washed Ni-NTA agarose resin  in binding buffer A  at 4°C for 2 hr . For DAF-16 and UNC-43 binding , 6xHis-DAF-16 was incubated with purified GST-UNC-43 and CAM in the presence of 30 μl pre-washed Ni-NTA agarose in binding buffer A without MgCl2 . The samples were resolved by replicate SDS-PAGE gels , one for Coomassie blue or silver staining , and the other for western blots with anti-GST , anti-DAF-16 or anti-CAM antibodies . To map the TAX-6 binding site on DAF-16 , 5 µg of GST or GST-tagged DAF-16 fragments were incubated with TAX-6::GFP-containing worm lysate  and pre-washed glutathione beads at 4°C for 1 hr . For the phospho-DAF-16 IP , the supernatant was incubated with 10 μl of the antibody specific for DAF-16  or DAF-16  and 30 μl of pre-washed protein A and protein G beads  for 2 hr . 2 μg of purified recombinant GST-UNC-43  was incubated with 2 μg of CAM and 2–5 μg of purified 6xHis- or GST-tagged DAF-16  in the kinase reaction buffer  in the presence or absence of -γ-ATP at 30°C for 15 min . Proteins were resolved by SDS PAGE and analyzed by autoradiography or WB with anti-DAF-16  or anti-DAF-16  antibodies . The kinase reactions , performed as described above , were shifted to 60°C for 10 min to inactivate UNC-43 or CAMKIIA . The sample were resolved by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by autoradiography or by WB with antibodies specific for DAF-16  , DAF-16  , or mFOXO3  /hFOXO3  . Coomassie blue-stained bands corresponding to in vitro phosphorylated DAF-16 or FOXO3 fragments , or FLAG-FOXO3 immunoprecipetated from 293T cells were destained and in-gel digested with trypsin . 
We determined the organizational principles governing how dirty fruit flies groom their bodies with sequential movements . Using genetically targeted activation of neural subsets , we drove distinct motor programs that clean individual body parts . Cleaning one body part reduces the sensory drive to its motor program , which relieves suppression of the next movement , allowing the grooming sequence to progress down the hierarchy . A model featuring independently evoked cleaning movements activated in parallel , but selected serially through hierarchical suppression , was successful in reproducing the grooming sequence . Grooming consists of discrete cleaning movements that occur in predictable sequences; however , the mechanisms that govern transitions between the movements are not known  . Local mechanical stimulation of a body part causes fruit flies to perform precisely targeted cleaning sweeps with their front or hind legs towards that body part  . In contrast , when they are completely coated in dust , flies coordinate a repertoire of cleaning movements to groom their whole bodies  . We reasoned that we could exploit the behavior of such dust-coated flies to determine how different grooming actions are prioritized and ordered when they are stimulated at the same time . We show that dust on the body elicits different independently evoked cleaning motor programs for five body parts that progress in series . Wild-type flies clean different areas of the body sequentially . Diagram of body parts cleaned by front leg  or hind leg  movements . Dust distribution measurements of the bodies of flies that were coated in yellow dust and allowed to groom . Body parts were imaged  and aligned to clean reference images in order to determine the fraction of dust left on each part . Average spatial distribution of dust 0 min after dusting and after flies groomed for 35 min . Dust removal across a 35-min time course . Each time point  is plotted as the fraction of dust left in the defined regions and shown as the mean ± SEM; n ≥ 26 flies . Representative ethogram of the five most common cleaning movements performed by an individual fly after dusting  . All head cleaning movements are binned because eye and antennal cleaning are not easily distinguishable in the dusted state using our analysis methods  . Latency to the first bout of head , abdomen , or wing cleaning after dusting for each of six flies annotated . Transitions among different body cleaning movements , standing , and walking  . The radii of the nodes are proportional to the log of the average fraction of total cleaning bouts for each movement . Grooming apparatus for dusting , recording , and observing flies . Mesh-covered chambers allow free dust to exit while preventing flies from escaping . The connector side fits standard multiwell plates for fly dusting  , clear viewing plugs for recording videos  , and an adaptor for transferring flies between chambers  . Image from a video recording of a dusted fly used to score cleaning movements . All displayed grooming chambers are 15 . Strategies for quantifying dust on the body surface . Examples of dusted flies that were allowed to groom for 1 min before their heads were dissected and imaged  . Each image was manually warped to a standard head  , the dust-positive yellow pixels were isolated and converted to grayscale , and all dust pixels were set to 255 intensity values  . Wild-type flies remove dust from body parts at different rates . Average dust patterns of the body parts of Canton S flies at different time points after dusting . Masks used for defining regions of the body parts for counting dust pixels are shown on top . Distribution plots of quantified dust pattern data . Values represent the time it took for flies to clean fifty percent of each body part . Sequential cleaning of the head , abdomen , and wings requires dust . Cleaning movement ethograms of individual Canton S flies in response to being shaken without  and with  dust  . Table of the time to the first appearance of different cleaning movements for both undusted and dusted flies . Head cleaning movements are all binned because of the difficulty distinguishing between eye and antennal cleaning when flies were dusted  . Transitions among cleaning movements of dusted wild-type flies . Canton S flies were shaken with dust . Movements were binned into whole head , abdomen , wing , and leg rubbing . Transitions among cleaning movements performed by dusted wild-type flies over a time course . 009 We tested whether flies would prioritize cleaning of specific body parts when they were completely dirty . This was achieved by coating flies in dust , paired with measurements of changing dust distributions on the body surface  and manual annotation of their cleaning movements  . In response to dust on their bodies , flies groomed with a predictable progression of targeted cleaning movements  . This progression required dust , as undusted flies did not groom in a sequential progression  . Dusted flies rapidly cleaned their eyes and then focused on the antennae , demonstrating that they sequentially clean specific regions on the head  . They next cleaned their posterior body parts in the order from abdomen to wings to thorax . The grooming progression occurred as a sequence in which the probabilities of cleaning different regions of the body gradually changed through time . That is , the progression was not absolutely unidirectional as flies returned to cleaning earlier body parts even though they had already started cleaning later body parts   . As the flies progressed through the grooming sequence , each bout of body part cleaning featured cyclic transitions between sweeps of the targeted region and rubbing of the legs against each other  . These cyclic bouts of leg rubbing likely occurred when the legs accumulated sufficient dust from sweeping the body , which was then rubbed towards the distal leg parts and removed . Grooming of the entire body did not necessarily proceed as a continuous process . Flies often paused to walk around and then resumed cleaning where they left off or transitioned to other body parts  . Thus , flies groom by gradually cleaning different body parts in bouts that are characterized by cyclic transitions between body cleaning sweeps and leg rubbing  . The priority order for cleaning the different body parts is: eyes > antennae > abdomen > wings > thorax . Cleaning movements of a wild-type fly after being coated in dust . 010 The modularity of grooming is evident from observations that individual cleaning movements can be evoked by locally applied stimuli  . Using this method to activate neurons targeted by different GAL4 lines , we discovered that grooming movements could indeed be independently activated in the absence of dust . We identified different GAL4 lines that caused exclusive cleaning of each body part , including the head , abdomen , wings , and legs  . Some lines we identified drove cleaning of different body subparts such as the antennae , in agreement with our observations that flies precisely target cleaning of different regions of the head  . Although these lines were sufficient for driving highly specific cleaning movements , we did not find evidence that blocking the activity of their targeted neurons could disrupt dust-induced grooming  . This suggests that the targeted neurons are sufficient but not necessary for driving their respective cleaning movements . All lines tested could activate continuous cleaning of their corresponding body parts for long periods of time  . Experimental induction of these cleaning modules via GAL4-expressed dTrpA1 allowed us to directly test how they are sequentially executed during the progression of grooming . Activation of UAS-dTrpA1 in different GAL4 lines is sufficient to activate discrete cleaning movements in the absence of dust . Cleaning movement activation phenotypes driven by 12 GAL4 lines expressing UAS-dTrpA1 . Flies  were warmed to 30°C to activate the targeted neurons while their cleaning movements were recorded and manually scored  . The GAL4 lines are grouped into four cleaning movement categories: head , abdomen , thorax and/or wings , and legs . The grid displays increases and decreases from control flies in the fraction of time each line spent performing different cleaning movements . Note: R71C07 displays significant increases in both abdominal cleaning and leg rubbing . Although this line is shown in the abdominal cleaning category , it could also be included with leg rubbing . GAL4 lines expressing UAS-dTrpA1 have different activated cleaning phenotypes at high temperature . Their cleaning movements were manually scored  . Anatomy of GAL4 lines used to activate distinct cleaning movements . UAS-dTrpA1-activation phenotypes are listed with the name of each GAL4 line . Activated eye and head cleaning  . Activated whole head cleaning  . Activated antennal cleaning  . Activated abdominal cleaning  . Activated wing cleaning  . Activated posterior body cleaning  . Activated leg rubbing  . 021 We postulated that coating flies with dust leads to the simultaneous stimulation of all the cleaning modules , but because of body mechanical constraints , these competing modules are mutually exclusive and therefore must be performed one at a time . Specifically , we hypothesized that a suppression hierarchy between cleaning modules could mediate fly grooming priorities . In this schema , the ability of the cleaning modules to suppress each other forms a hierarchy in which modules ‘higher’ in the hierarchy are able to suppress ‘lower’ modules , but not vice-versa . For this hypothesis to account for the fly grooming progression , the order of suppression within the hierarchy would have to match the order of the normal grooming sequence , as schematized  . Thus , in a completely dusted fly , the most hierarchically superior module is able to suppress all the other competing modules , the second highest module can suppress all but the first one , and so on . Hierarchical suppression and dust stimulus drive cleaning movement selection . Cleaning of specific body parts was artificially activated while flies were dusted to stimulate competition between their cleaning movements . Flies were pre-warmed at 30°C such that the dTrpA1-induced cleaning module was active at the time of dusting . After grooming for 25 min , flies were anesthetized and their dust patterns were measured . Modules are arranged on the grid in the order that they occur in the normal grooming sequence . The observed suppression hierarchy . For each line , the normalized fraction of dust remaining on different regions of the flies is mapped onto the corresponding grid locations  . The module activated by each GAL4 line is listed above the line name . Cleaning movements performed when a GAL4/dTrpA1-activated module is shut off . Arrows from B to each row in C show the GAL4 line and corresponding dust distribution that was tested . The grid displays increases from control flies in the frequencies of different cleaning movements performed in the first 3 minutes after shutting off dTrpA1  . Movements were manually scored . All head cleaning movements are binned and displayed as whole head , because eye and antennal cleaning are not easily distinguishable in the dusted state . Control and experimental flies performed few thoracic cleaning bouts and are therefore not shown . Dust patterns resulting from coating flies in dust and artificially activating specific cleaning movements . Dust patterns of UAS-dTrpA1-activated cleaning lines 25 min after dusting  . Average dust patterns are displayed as previously described in Figure 1B . Distribution plots of quantified dust pattern data . UAS-dTrpA1-activation phenotypes are listed with the name of each GAL4 line . Control flies show remaining dust levels when no module activated . Behaviors of flies that were coated in dust while specific cleaning movements were artificially activated . Flies were pre-warmed at 30°C such that the dTrpA1-activated cleaning movement was being performed at the time of dusting . They were shaken with or without dust and allowed to groom while their cleaning movements were recorded for behavioral analysis . Representative manually annotated ethograms of GAL4 lines expressing dTrpA1 that were shaken with and without dust . The most common mutually exclusive movements performed by individual flies are displayed . Most head cleaning bouts occur at the beginning of grooming both in wild-type flies and when other cleaning movements are artificially activated . Number of cleaning movements for each major body part in 100 s intervals after flies were shaken without or with dust  . Different lines displayed are: control  , R40F04-GAL4/UAS-dTrpA1   , R24B03-GAL4/UAS-dTrpA1   , R53A06-GAL4/UAS-dTrpA1   . Dust stimulated cleaning movements  are shown as lines with no filled circles . All head cleaning movements are combined  . Friedman tests show a statistical difference between points in each head cleaning curve with dusted flies . This demonstrates that the numbers of head cleaning bouts at the beginning of grooming are higher than those at the end of the time course  . Triggering of cleaning movements is dust dependent . This experiment was designed to test between two possible mechanisms for the sequential induction of cleaning movements . One possibility is that activation of a preceding cleaning movement and its subsequent deactivation triggers the next movement . Alternatively , the next movement is completely determined by the distribution of dust on the body . Cleaning movements performed during the first 3 min after the flies were cooled . GAL4 lines expressing UAS-dTrpA1 were shaken without  or with  dust and treated as described in the results . UAS-dTrpA1-activation phenotypes are listed with the name of each GAL4 line . Bar graphs of the frequencies of different movements in the first 3 min after flies were cooled that were undusted  or dusted   . Head cleaning sub movements are all binned because they are not easily distinguishable from one another when flies are dusted  . Note that R23A07 and R40F04 showed increases in posterior cleaning movements that were not dust dependent . However , these movements were not increased to the same frequencies as those observed when the flies were dusted and cooled . 025 Our GAL4 lines allowed us to test this hierarchical suppression hypothesis by artificially driving cleaning of specific body parts while simultaneously dusting the flies to induce competing cleaning movements . For this experiment , we selected lines that could induce a particular cleaning module and lacked additional phenotypes that might confound our grooming-specific interpretations  . For example , when a fly carrying a GAL4 driver that activates abdominal cleaning  was stimulated in the presence of whole-body dust , it first cleaned the head , then abdomen  , but then persisted in cleaning its abdomen instead of proceeding to its wings and thorax  . This demonstrates that abdominal cleaning is below head cleaning but above wing and thoracic cleaning in the suppression hierarchy . In contrast , flies carrying GAL4 drivers that activate head cleaning  failed to remove dust from their posterior body , consistent with the hypothesis that the behavior would suppress posterior cleaning modules  . GAL4 lines that activated abdominal  , wing  , or all posterior cleaning modules  showed little impairment in removing dust from their heads  . Like wild-type flies , these GAL4 lines cleaned their heads at the onset of dusting , indicating that the normal progression of cleaning was preserved up to the point where it was blocked  . This demonstrates that the ‘endogenously’ produced  head-cleaning module suppressed strong , artificially activated abdominal , wing , and thoracic cleaning . The fact that head cleaning suppresses other movements through both artificial and endogenous activation argues against the possibility that suppression was an artifact of dTrpA1 activation . These results support our hypothesis that the cleaning modules are competing for output via an intermodular suppression that favors those that are hierarchically superior . The full suppression hierarchy of cleaning modules is: eyes > antennae > abdomen > wings > thorax , which mirrors the serial order of grooming observed in dusted flies . Although the priority order of cleaning module execution can be attributed to a suppression hierarchy , the sequential progression of grooming requires the termination of the hierarchically superior cleaning module followed by selection of the next module . One possible explanation for the observed progression is that each module sequentially triggers the next module in the series , analogous to an activation chain  . We tested this possibility using the GAL4 lines to elicit different cleaning modules in the absence of dust to see if activation of one cleaning module would stimulate execution of the next module . We found that activation and subsequent acute deactivation of neurons that controlled a given cleaning module did not directly elicit the next module in the grooming sequence  . This indicated that an activation chain among the cleaning modules is not sufficient to direct the progression of grooming . This conclusion is supported by observations that cleaning movements are only directed to the body part that is stimulated and not to other parts  An alternative way by which grooming could progress is through a combination of the acute sensory cues provided by dust and the intrinsic suppression hierarchy among the cleaning modules . To test this hypothesis , we took advantage of the fact that artificial activation of specific cleaning modules blocks grooming of subordinate body parts  . Thus , if the cleaning modules are evoked by dust on specific body parts , then flies released from artificial activation should initiate cleaning of the next dirty body part in the hierarchy . We tested this prediction by rapidly cooling the dusted GAL4/UAS-dTrpA1 flies shown in Figure 3B to a temperature at which dTrpA1 is inactive , and then observing the first cleaning movements performed . In effect , flies were returned to a normal behavioral state but with different distributions of dust on their bodies  . Indeed , flies resumed cleaning the body part downstream of where the sequence had been blocked  . For example , flies with clean heads and abdomens , but dirty wings and thoraces , focused on cleaning their wings  . Thus , cleaning progresses to the next dirty and hierarchically superior part . We found that hierarchical suppression can mediate the selection of one among many simultaneously stimulated cleaning modules that are in competition for output . The sensory layer consists of parallel sensory inputs that each independently activate a specific cleaning module . The hierarchical layer establishes differences in the activation levels between the cleaning modules  . The winner-take-all layer then selects the module with the highest activation level by suppressing execution of the other modules . Once a module is selected , the reduced sensory drive that results from cleaning dust from the relevant body part gradually lowers its activation level , thereby allowing cleaning to proceed to whichever module has the next highest activation level  . Grooming proceeds from the module with the highest activation level to that with the lowest until dust is removed from all of the body parts . This organization leads to the emergence of sequential cleaning of body parts . Model of hierarchical suppression results in the sequential progression of grooming . The dust induced grooming sequence requires three layers:  the sensory layer detects dust and independently activates each cleaning module . This is shown as parallel excitatory arrows from each yellow dust cartoon to activate specific cleaning modules . The hierarchical layer determines each module's level of activation when its respective body part is coated in dust . The winner-take-all layer selects the cleaning module that is most active and suppresses all competing responses  . Blunt arrows from the winner-take-all layer to the yellow dust depict that the winning module reduces its own sensory input by cleaning off the dust and consequently becoming less active . The cleaning continues until the activation level of the module is no longer maximal , at which point the transition of cleaning to the new maximally active module occurs . In this simulation , the competition is between five different cleaning modules . Equal sensitivities to dust and no inhibitory connections . Modules with varying sensory gain in response to dust: modules with higher sensory gain  have higher activation levels in response to the same dust amount . Unidirectional lateral inhibitory connections between the modules . For simplicity of illustration , only the nearest-neighbor inhibitory connections are shown; in the computational implementation , each module inhibits all the subordinate modules in the hierarchy  . Constitutive activation of a single cleaning module . Simulated by setting the amount of dust on a particular body part to completely dirty after each round of cleaning  . Constitutive activation of a single cleaning module in the presence of dust on all body parts . In the model presented here , we selected the cleaning module with the highest activation level by using a maximum function  . The only difference between the two implementations of the model is how the activation level of each cleaning module is set in the hierarchical layer . If no differences are set in the relative activation levels between modules , the result is unordered grooming , with equal probability of the modules occurring  . Alternatively , the sensitivity to dust  across the modules can be varied , such that their activation levels are proportional to the amount of dust on each body part , weighted by their sensitivity to the dust stimulus  . Thus , both simulations produce the sequential selection of cleaning modules observed in grooming behavior . The model of hierarchical suppression also replicates the returns to previous cleaning modules that we observed with dusted flies  . Based on the computational model , this occurs when the cleaning modules have relatively similar activation levels . For example , when no hierarchical differences are set among the modules  , they are all activated to nearly the same level in response to dust , and their selection is dependent only on slight differences in dust levels on their corresponding body parts . Once selected , a cleaning module reduces dust on its body part , causing its activation level to drop below that of the next cleaning module . That next module is then selected and cleans the associated body part until its own activation level falls below that of another module , and so on . Thus , incremental amounts of dust are removed from body parts while frequent switching occurs among the different modules  . In the case where a hierarchy is set among the cleaning modules  , the selection of those that are most hierarchically superior is initially very probable because their activation levels are relatively high in response to the starting amount of dust . As dust is removed , however , these levels among the modules become more similar . This equalization of activation levels through dust removal results in return cleaning by the modules , and the simulations shown in Figure 4C , D come to more closely resemble that of Figure 4B as cleaning progresses . Such return cleaning is also seen in wild-type grooming flies , and can thus be explained by our parallel model  . First , it can mimic the constitutive cleaning phenotypes of GAL4 lines expressing dTrpA1 in the absence of dust . Constitutive activation was implemented by setting a particular body part to be fully dusted regardless of the amount of cleaning done  . This resulted in the continual cleaning of a particular body part without triggering any other cleaning modules  . Adding dust to all body parts in the presence of the constitutive activation of a module and unidirectional inhibitory connections simulated hierarchical suppression . This leads to sequential cleaning by the hierarchically superior modules , whereas cleaning by the inferior modules was absent , despite the presence of dust  . Thus , we find close agreement between the experimental results and the model of grooming behavior , both in the progression of cleaning modules down the hierarchical levels and in the ability of modules higher in the hierarchy to suppress the modules below . Our model explains how the sequential selection of cleaning modules occurs , but could it also explain the frequent alternations between cleaning the body parts and leg rubbing that occur throughout the grooming progression ? These alternations are an important and prominent feature in normal grooming behavior for efficient dust removal  . In order to simulate the alternations , we considered leg rubbing to be a member of the same suppression hierarchy with the other cleaning modules and ran the model simulation based on two premises  . First , leg rubbing occurs at all stages of grooming . Therefore , it would necessarily be among the most hierarchically superior of the cleaning modules to be able to suppress cleaning by the others . Second , dust accumulates on the legs while they clean the body parts . This accumulation of dust increases the activation level to the point where leg rubbing is active and the body cleaning modules are subsequently suppressed . The removal of dust from the legs through leg rubbing then reduces suppression on the body cleaning modules and allows cleaning of the corresponding body parts to resume . This cyclic accumulation and removal of dust from the legs during body cleaning could account for the high transition probabilities between the leg and body modules . When we simulated leg rubbing in the model , the sequential progression of body cleaning modules down the hierarchy was preserved  . The simulation also produced the cyclic alternations between cleaning of a body part and leg rubbing that we observed in our empirically obtained ethograms of wild-type flies  . We conclude that hierarchical relationships among the cleaning modules mediate not only their sequential execution , but also the cyclic transition dynamics between body cleaning and leg rubbing . Hierarchical suppression mediates the cyclic transitions between cleaning modules . Leg rubbing was simulated in the grooming model based on two features . The legs accumulate dust as they remove it from the body parts . Leg rubbing is subsequently executed to remove that dust . The sensory gain on the legs was set high relative to the other cleaning modules such that they are the most active and selected in the winner-take-all layer when they were sufficiently dirty . Ethogram example of a wild-type fly grooming for comparison to the simulation . Model of the leg rubbing and body part cleaning cycle  . Leg rubbing is hierarchically associated with the body-cleaning modules  . The only difference between leg rubbing and the other modules is the accumulation of dust on the legs during body part cleaning . This is depicted by a forked connection that removes dust from the head  and transfers it to the legs  . Simulation of grooming with leg rubbing and four body-cleaning modules  . Typical examples of cyclic switching between body cleaning and leg rubbing . The ethogram on the left displays a wild-type fly cleaning its head and the one on the right shows a simulated head-cleaning bout  . Average spatial distribution of dust on each body part that remains when flies were coated in dust while leg rubbing was activated  . 027 Our model predicts that leg rubbing is among the most hierarchically superior of the cleaning modules . Therefore , if leg rubbing is constitutively activated , it should suppress cleaning of the other body parts in a competition experiment where flies are coated in dust . We tested this prediction by using a GAL4 line that drove strong leg rubbing of both the front and hind legs  . When these flies were coated in dust , they were unable to completely clean their bodies , indicating that the body cleaning modules were suppressed  . This supports the prediction that leg rubbing is part of a grooming suppression hierarchy . However , cleaning of some body parts were suppressed more than others , suggesting that leg rubbing is not the most superiorly positioned module in the suppressive hierarchy . For example , activated leg rubbing did not suppress eye cleaning . This suggests that eye cleaning is at the top of the grooming hierarchy . Additionally , leg rubbing only weakly suppressed cleaning of the abdomen . Given that abdominal cleaning is the most hierarchically superior of the cleaning modules performed by the hind legs , this may suggest that hind leg rubbing and abdominal cleaning are more equal in their positions in the hierarchy . These results indicate that our model can explain the main observed features of the grooming progression , including the sequential cleaning of body parts and the frequent alternations between leg rubbing and body part cleaning . We find that a suppression hierarchy mediates the selection of competing cleaning movements that cannot be executed at the same time . Eye cleaning is executed first in response to dust and is the most hierarchically superior cleaning module . Because clean legs are necessary for cleaning each body part , their position near the top of the hierarchy is necessary for efficient debris removal . The grooming sequence may be considered as a series of ‘forced choices’ among different competing cleaning modules that are selected in priority order through suppression . As each body part is cleaned , suppression of the other cleaning modules is lifted , and a new round of competition between the remaining cleaning options occurs . Two lines of evidence argue against a primary role for an activation chain in driving the dust-induced grooming sequence . First , each cleaning movement can be activated by local stimulation of its respective body part without triggering other movements  . Either local stimulation  or neuronal activation  of a particular body part-cleaning module activates only one module and does not trigger the others . Feedforward activation models predict a chain of different cleaning modules once the sequence is triggered rather than just one  . Second , the observed structure of grooming behavior in fully dusted flies is inconsistent with an activation chain model . As flies progressively groom their bodies , the transitions among different cleaning modules are gradual  . These gradual transitions are characterized by return cleaning among the modules , meaning that previous cleaning modules are revisited after later modules were already selected . Cleaning modules elicited through feedforward activation are not likely to exhibit such return cleaning , but should produce more deterministic sequences , such as those observed for zebra finch bird song  . The activation of the cleaning modules occurs through dust sensing , where each module is independently stimulated by a dust stimulus on its corresponding body part . Coating the body of the flies in dust leads to the parallel stimulation of the modules , and thus competition among them . Our computational model of grooming works through a similar mechanism  . We find that either differences in the sensory gain of the dust response or unidirectional  lateral inhibitory connections among the modules can generate an activity gradient . The most active cleaning module is selected in the winner-take-all layer while the others are suppressed . In grooming , the active module ‘deletes’ itself from the sequence by reducing the dust stimulated sensory drive through cleaning  . We found that fruit flies make frequent transitions between body cleaning and leg rubbing and that these oscillations can be explained by the same hierarchical rules as those that govern the sequential progression of the behavior  . The only difference between leg rubbing and body cleaning is that the act of cleaning the body part leads to the transfer of dust to the legs , which then activates leg rubbing  . The cyclic transfer and removal of the dust input leads to oscillatory behavior . Does fruit fly grooming behavior provide insight into the organization of more complex motor sequences ? We gained the experimental control necessary for probing this organization by identifying GAL4 lines that target neurons whose activation drove specific cleaning modules . For example , one prediction of our model of hierarchical suppression points to unidirectional lateral inhibitory connections among the cleaning modules  . The GAL4 lines identified in this study target neurons that activate specific cleaning modules without inducing other behavioral phenotypes . In fruit fly grooming , mechanosensory neuron-coupled bristles can trigger cleaning responses with mechanical stimulation  . This suggests that activation of these sensory neurons with dTrpA1 could trigger the specific cleaning modules . However , the neurons targeted by the GAL4 lines used in this study only show sufficiency for activating cleaning movements as expression of UAS-Shibirets1 or UAS-TNT were unable to block cleaning  . Thus , we propose that sensory neurons , command-like neurons , or both activate the cleaning modules . The expression patterns of the GAL4 lines in this study vary in the numbers and types of cells that they target , raising the question as to which neurons in each pattern activate the cleaning modules  . Thus , we anticipate that identifying the neural circuitry for each cleaning module and determining how these circuitries interact will reveal how the serial organization of grooming behavior is encoded in the nervous system through a hierarchical suppression mechanism . Multiwell grooming chambers: blocks of grooming chambers were designed to facilitate the parallel and uniform dusting of flies for dust pattern measurements and recording videos of cleaning behavior . Blocks were fabricated with 24 or 96 grooming chambers  and have connector ends and dust removal ends . The dust removal end consists of a Nitex mesh-covered opening that allows free dust to exit the chamber while preventing flies from escaping  . 24-well aluminum chambers  : aluminum chambers were identical to those described above , with the exception that the dust removal end was closed such that flies would stand directly on the aluminum  . These chambers were fabricated for rapid cooling of flies to quickly shut off dTrpA1-activated behaviors . Flies were cold anesthetized  , transferred to grooming chambers  , and allowed to recover for at least 15 min before assaying . Flies were tapped from the chambers into multiwell plates containing measured amounts of Reactive Yellow 86 dust  and shaken to uniformly coat each fly  . Excess dust was removed by tapping the flies against the mesh on the dust removal end of the grooming block . The flies were then allowed to clean in the chambers with the mesh side down to allow dust to exit . Grooming was terminated at different time points by anesthetizing the flies with CO2 . 0-min time samples were obtained by dusting the flies and immediately anesthetizing them . 25 min was chosen as the assay end because most body parts were clean at that point . Dusted flies were prepared as described above and dissected for imaging of their dust patterns . Flies were held on their sides with a scalpel inserted between the head and thorax while all legs and wings were removed . The scalpel was then used to decapitate the fly . The contrast was then adjusted to 100% to set all dust pixels to a 255 grayscale value  . The average pixel values for the entire image were converted to grayscale colormaps that represent the percent of flies with dust at a particular pixel coordinate  . Normalization in Figure 3B was calculated as follows: average dust pixel fractions per body region were divided by the maximum mean value for each body part . dTrpA1 behavioral analysis  : this method was used for recording the flies shown in Figure 2 . Dusted experiments: Canton S or GAL4/UAS-dTrpA1 flies were dusted individually in 24-well grooming chambers as described above . Flies were also shaken without dust and recorded as a control for the behavioral effects of the shaking . Dusted/cooled experiments: flies were shaken with or without dust , allowed to groom for 25 min at 30°C , cooled to 18°C , and their behavior was recorded for 3 min . After grooming for 24 min at 30°C , the flies were transferred to a 24-well aluminum grooming block that was preheated to 30°C . Cleaning movements were scored for 3 min starting when the plate touched the cold plate surface  . A list of cleaning movements was compiled and modified from two different studies  . Flies clean their bodies with their front or hind legs as mutually exclusive events  . Front leg cleaning movements are directed to the head whereas the hind legs clean the abdomen , wings , and thoraces . Starts of cleaning events are defined when the legs are farthest anterior  or posterior  of the body part before they sweep in the opposite direction . Wing cleaning with the hind legs and leg rubbing using the second legs were sometimes asymmetrically performed in that one leg performed cleaning of a particular body part while the contralateral leg was stationary . Eye and head cleaning: legs sweep across the eyes , tops , and bottoms of the head as it is rotated . Note , proboscis and ventral head cleaning were binned with eye and head cleaning for simplicity . Whole head: all of the head cleaning behaviors described above are binned . The whole head designation was used because it was not possible to distinguish between eye , head , and antennal cleaning when flies were dusted . Abdominal cleaning: legs sweep the ventral or dorsal surface of the abdomen . The hind legs sometimes clean the genitals . This was included as abdominal cleaning for simplicity . Wing cleaning: each leg sweeps the ipsilateral dorsal side of the wings simultaneously , or one at a time . Alternatively , both legs clean a single wing with the ipsilateral leg cleaning the dorsal side and the contralateral leg cleaning the ventral side . Sweeping or kicking the ventral part of the wing with one or both legs was also referred to as wing cleaning . Thoracic cleaning: hind legs sweep the thorax from anterior to posterior with one or both legs . Front/hind leg rubbing: distal parts of the legs are rubbed together . Behavior begins at the moment that the legs touch each other . The middle legs were sometimes rubbed together with the front or the hind legs . This was included with front leg or hind leg rubbing depending on the leg pair being used with the second legs . Standing: fly does not move more than a body length from the original scored position and does not perform any grooming movements . Walking: fly steps more than a body length with no pauses in leg movement . Bout frequency: total number of starts of each behavior per fly . We manually scored the movements of 12 identified GAL4 lines that were sufficient to activate strong cleaning movements  . GAL4 lines used in this study were sufficient to activate cleaning movements but not necessary for cleaning dust off their respective body parts . This was revealed by inhibition and dusting experiments using both UAS-Shibirets1 or UAS-TNT  . Two neural network architectures were used to simulate the hierarchical suppression among competing cleaning modules: a sensory gain model  and a unidirectional inhibition model  . For the UIM architecture , the activation levels are initially set to equal the vector of amounts of dust , d  . The initial amount of dust was set to 0 . This noise term is only a factor in Figure 4B  where slight differences in the relative dust levels determine which module is selected first . Winner-take-all layer: to simulate removal of dust from the body parts , this layer first finds the module with the highest activation level that was set by SGM or UIM . The position of the module with maximal activation level , ma , is determined: ma = max  . Next , a constant amount of dust , dr , is subtracted from the math position in vector d  . Winner-take-all neural networks can be modeled using all-to-all inhibitory connections between the different modules  . Constitutive activation of cleaning modules: to implement constitutive cleaning of a particular body part , we held the dust level of a given cleaning module constant   . Leg rubbing: to implement leg rubbing , we assumed two pairs of legs . Both pairs were assigned an initial activation level  , which was directly proportional to the amount of dust on legs  . For each iteration i , we added a small , constant amount of dust to the pair of legs assigned to clean the body part with the maximal activation level  . If ma =< 3  the first leg pair was assigned and if ma > 3  the second leg pair was assigned to collect dust . Therefore , with each grooming iteration , the activation level of the associated pair of legs increases . Leg rubbing  is initiated under two conditions:  the activation level of the pair crosses a stationary threshold  and  the activation level of the pair is above the activation level of any body part  , including the other pair of legs . The latter condition assures that leg rubbing is still part of the competitive hierarchy of cleaning modules  . Model output and display: the output of the model is the position of the cleaning module with the maximum activation level at iteration i  . 
Accurate chromosome segregation depends on coordination between cohesion resolution and kinetochore-microtubule interactions  , a process regulated by the spindle assembly checkpoint  . Sgol2’s ability to protect cohesin depends on its interaction with PP2A , as is its ability to silence the SAC , with the latter being mediated by direct binding to Mad2 . In contrast , its effect on bivalent stretching and K-fiber formation is independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity respectively . By virtue of its multiple interactions , Sgol2 links many of the processes essential for faithful chromosome segregation . Because this process is intrinsically error prone , inappropriate attachments , for example those that connect maternal and paternal kinetochores to the same pole , must be disrupted through phosphorylation of kinetochore proteins by Aurora B/C kinases  . Sgol2 , on the other hand , protects centromeric cohesin from separase at the first meiotic division  . Sgol2’s coiled coil domain binds PP2A in vitro  but whether this is vital for protecting centromeric cohesion is not known . Sgol2 also interacts with MCAK  , a microtubule depolymerizing kinesin , implicated in correcting inappropriate kinetochore-microtubule interactions  , and with Mad2 an essential component of the MCC  . Shugoshins , though not explicitly Sgol2 , have also been implicated in recruiting to kinetochores the Aurora B kinase , necessary both for the SAC and for error correction  . Based on its interactions , Sgol2 has been linked to cohesion protection , the spindle assembly checkpoint , and error correction pathways . We show here that Sgol2 defective in PP2A binding fails to protect centromeric cohesin , as found for Sgo1 in yeast  . However , if this were the sole function of Sgol2 , then chromosome behavior during meiosis I should be unaffected . To our surprise , we found that Sgol2 deficiency caused striking changes in chromosome and microtubule dynamics . It delayed bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles , caused increased bivalent stretching , and greatly increased Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores , which was accompanied by an increase in lateral and a decrease in end on kinetochore-microtubules attachments . Lastly , Sgol2 deficiency delayed considerably APC/CCdc20 activation , suggesting that it was required to shut off the SAC . Sgol2 helps to turn off the SAC by binding directly both PP2A and the MCC protein Mad2 , it moderates chromosome stretching by recruiting to kinetochores the kinesin MCAK , and likely promotes formation of K-fibers by down-regulating the activity of Aurora B/C kinase specifically at kinetochores . Our findings imply that through its multi-domain structure , Sgol2 has an important if not unique role in coordinating many of the key processes within this array . An essential feature of shugoshins is a conserved N-terminal homodimeric coiled coil that binds PP2A  . Unlike Sgol1 , which only interacts stably with the PP2A holoenzyme  , Sgol2 also associates with a core complex containing only A and C subunits  . To create versions of Sgol2 defective specifically in binding PP2A , conserved residues  predicted to interact directly with PP2A were substituted by alanine or in the case of E82 also by lysine  . Likewise , the highly conserved asparagine  , corresponding to N61 in Sgol1 , which forms a hydrogen bond within the coiled coil enabling it to adopt a conformation compatible with PP2A binding , was substituted by isoleucine  . Importantly , binding between purified Flag- and His-tagged Sgol2 fragments spanning the coiled coil  region  was unaffected by any of these mutations , implying that all permit coiled coil formation . To assess the effects on PP2A binding , GST-tagged PP2A A subunit was incubated with B’ and C subunits in the presence of MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag . Pull down experiments revealed that N55I and the 3A triple mutation abolished co-purification of Sgol2 with the GST-tagged A subunit while N54A and R56A reduced it . Sgol2 binds to PP2A and Mad2 through coiled coil domain and Mad2 Interaction Motif  , respectively . musculus Sgol2  . Sequence alignment of the coiled coil domains of Sgol1 and Sgol2 from different vertebrate species . Arrowheads below the alignment indicate conserved residues  in the coiled coil domain of Sgol2 mapping onto binding sites between PP2A and Sgol1 . Sequence alignment of conserved MIM  in Sgol2 , Mad1 , and Cdc20 from Xenopus , human and mouse origin . Dimerization assay of coiled coil domains from wild type and mutant Sgol2 . The Flag-tagged MBP-Sgol2cc  was pulled down by the His-tagged MBP-Sgol2cc  with the same substitution . Co-immunoprecipitation assay of MBP-Sgol2cc from wild type and 3A mutant are shown to validate the homodimerisation of coiled coil domains . MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag and MBP-Sgol2cc-His were expressed either independently , or co-expressed . Sgol2 and Mad2 binding assay . Sgol2 fragment spanning amino-acid  residues 120–180 with wild type and mutant MIM sequences were assessed for Mad2 interaction by far-western blot . Fragments from Xenopus Sgol1 , with and without MIM domain , were used as positive and negative controls . 003 To investigate whether association of PP2A with Sgol2’s coiled coil is necessary for protecting centromeric cohesion , we compared the effect of the mutations on PP2A’s co-localization with Sgol2 at kinetochores with their effect on the maintenance of cohesion after oocytes have undergone the first meiotic division . Sgol2 and PP2A co-localize at inner kinetochores of bivalent chromosomes at metaphase I in wild type oocytes  but neither protein was detected at this location in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes  . Importantly , microinjection of wild type Sgol2 encoding mRNA into sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes restored accumulation at kinetochores of both Sgol2 and PP2A at metaphase I . In contrast , microinjection of mRNAs carrying N54A , N55I , or 3A mutations restored Sgol2 but not PP2A  , implying that binding of PP2A to Sgol2’s coiled coil is necessary for recruiting the phosphatase to kinetochores in vivo . Chromosome spreads revealed that the failure of sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes to maintain cohesion between sister centromeres after meiosis I was reversed by microinjection of wild type but not N54A , N55I , or 3A mRNAs  . L51A and E82A , which had little or no effect on PP2A’s binding to Sgol2’s coiled coil in vitro , also fully restored cohesion protection while R56A and E82K , which caused a modest reduction in the Sgol2cc-PP2A interaction vitro , only partially restored it , producing metaphase II oocytes containing individual chromatids as well as dyads  . Lastly , we noticed that injection of 3A Sgol2 mRNAs also produced centromeric cohesion defects in wild type oocytes  . The correlation between the effects of mutations on binding PP2A in vitro and on protecting cohesion in vivo implies that the interaction of PP2A with Sgol2’s coiled coil is essential for protecting cohesin from separase at the first meiotic division . Sgol2-PP2A interaction is required to recruit PP2A to kinetochores and protect centromeric cohesion at the first meiotic division . GV oocytes were harvested in the presence of IBMX . Oocytes were then cultured in IBMX-free medium for about 6 hr , corresponding to metaphase I stage . Chromosome spreads were prepared and stained with DAPI  , Sgol2  , and PP2A-C  . Box and whisker plot shows fluorescence intensity ratios of PP2A and Sgol2 at kinetochores . Numbers of oocytes examined are indicated  . Oocytes harvested at GV stage were matured in M16 medium for up to 24 hr . Chromosome spreads prepared from oocytes that have extruded the first polar body were stained with DAPI  to visualize DNA and CREST  to mark centromeres . Sgol2-PP2A , but not Sgol2-Mad2 , interaction is required to protect centromeric cohesion at the first meiotic division . Oocytes harvested at GV stage from wild type  mice were microinjected with wild type or 3A mutant Sgol2 mRNA in M2 medium supplemented with IBMX . After releasing the oocytes in M16 medium without IBMX , chromosome spreads were prepared from metaphase II-arrested oocytes and stained with DAPI  and CREST  . Numbers of oocytes examined are indicated  . Metaphase I localization of Sgol2  and PP2A-C  on chromosomes from sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes microinjected with H150E Sgol2 mRNA . DAPI  and CREST  stained chromosome spreads prepared from metaphase II-stage oocytes . 005 DIC video microscopy revealed that sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes extruded polar bodies on average 2 hr later than oocytes from wild type littermates . Moreover , only 61% of sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes extruded the first polar body compared with 88% in wild type controls  . To investigate this , wild type and sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes were microinjected with mRNA encoding histone H2B-mCherry to mark chromosomes and Securin-eGFP to measure APC/CCdc20 activity  . 40% of mutant oocytes failed to activate APC/CCdc20 compared to 12% in wild type controls  , and those that did so were delayed by about 2 hr  . Surprisingly , microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA not only increased the fraction of oocytes that activated APC/CCdc20 to wild type levels  , but also advanced activation so that it took place about 2 hr earlier than in wild type  . Because microinjection of mRNA encoding a version of Cdc20  that cannot bind Mad2 , but not wild type Cdc20 , induced securin destruction in all sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes  , we conclude that Sgol2 facilitates APC/CCdc20 activation by silencing the SAC and that this process is dose dependent . Sgol2 silences spindle assembly checkpoint through its interactions with PP2A and Mad2 . Numbers of oocytes examined are indicated  . Oocytes were microinjected with indicated mRNAs at the GV stage . Frequencies of oocytes that destroyed Securin-eGFP , hence activated APC/CCdc20 , at the metaphase-anaphase transition are shown . Data represent the mean and standard deviations of Securin-eGFP mean fluorescence intensity levels in sgol2Δ/Δ  and litter mate control  oocytes at each time point . Securin-eGFP curves from individual oocytes are shown in Figure 4—figure supplement 1 . Control and Sgol2 knockout are compared to sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes microinjected with indicated Sgol2 mRNA . Securin-eGFP curves from individual oocytes are displayed in Figure 4—figure supplement 2 . Microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA accelerates APC/CCdc20 activation in wild type oocytes . Securin-eGFP curves from individual oocytes are shown in Figure 4—figure supplement 3 . Time course measurements of Securin-eGFP mean fluorescence intensity in control and Sgol2 knockout oocytes . Comparison of Securin-eGFP mean fluorescence intensity curves in Sgol2 knockout oocytes and sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes expressing the indicated form of Sgol2Δ/Δ mRNA . Microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA accelerates APC/CCdc20 activation in wild type oocytes . Time course measurements of Securin-eGFP mean fluorescence intensity from individual oocytes . 009 The recent observation that shugoshins , like Sgol2 from humans and Sgo1 from Xenopus , bind Mad2 in a manner similar to Mad1 and Cdc20 through a conserved Mad2 Interaction Motif   provided a clue as to how Sgol2 might regulates the SAC . This motif is conserved in mouse Sgol2  and far-western blots confirmed that interaction between mSgol2 and Mad2 is weakened by substituting the basic amino acid at its center with alanine  or glutamic acid   . Strikingly , H150E and H150A Sgol2 mRNAs were less effective than wild type in increasing the fraction of sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes that activated APC/CCdc20  . Importantly , neither mutation affected Sgol2’s association with kinetochores , its ability to recruit PP2A  or MCAK  to this location , or protection of centromeric cohesion  . Interestingly , N54A , which reduces PP2A binding , also abrogated Sgol2’s ability to promote APC/CCdc20 activation  without having any effect on MCAK recruitment  . We conclude that Sgol2 has an important role in silencing the SAC during meiosis I by binding directly both to Mad2 and PP2A . Sgol2 , by recruiting MCAK to kinetochores , maintains inter-kinetochore distances between homologous chromosomes . GV stage oocytes were harvested and microinjected in M2 medium supplemented with IBMX . Release from IBMX resulted in GVBD and at 6–7 hr post-GVBD chromosome spreads were prepared . Slides were stained with DAPI  , CREST  , and MCAK  . Arrowheads indicate distally attached bivalent chromosomes . Sgol2 targeted mice were crossed to  Rec8-Myc females to generate control and sgol2Δ/Δ expressing the Rec8-myc BAC transgene . Chromosome spreads were prepared at 6–7 hr post-GVBD and were stained with DAPI  , CREST  , and c-Myc  . Representative Z-projected confocal microscopy images and average  inter-kinetochore distance measurements from metaphase I stage oocytes expressing H2B-mCherry  and GFP-MCAK  . Metaphase I localization of Sgol2  and PP2A-C  on chromosomes from sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes microinjected with T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA . DAPI  and CREST  stained chromosome spreads prepared at metaphase II-stage from sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes microinjected at GV stage with T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA . GV oocytes were harvested in M2 medium supplemented with IBMX . Oocytes were then cultured in IBMX-free M16 medium for about 6–7 hr , corresponding to metaphase I-stage . To inhibit Aurora B/C kinase activity oocytes were cultured in M16 medium supplemented with AZD1152  . Representative chromosomes spreads from indicated groups of oocytes at metaphase I-stage showing MCAK localization are displayed . Oocytes harvested at GV stage were microinjected with either CENPB-eGFP or CENPB-eGFP fused to MCAK mRNA . 012 We noticed that chiasmata appeared terminalized in a large fraction of bivalent chromosomes from sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes  . Live cell imaging of oocytes microinjected at the GV stage with mRNAs encoding H2B-mCherry and GFP-MCAK showed that maternal and paternal kinetochores were pulled further apart in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes at metaphase I  . Importantly , increased kinetochore separation in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes was invariably observed on bivalents that had bi-oriented  , but was not accompanied by any change in the overall length of metaphase I spindles  . Interestingly , microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA not only rescued chiasmata structure  , but also reduced inter-kinetochore distances to below that seen in wild type  , without altering spindle length  . Because a similar reduction in inter-kinetochore distances was observed with N54A or H150E mutations  , regulation of bivalent stretching by Sgol2 does not depend on its ability to bind PP2A or Mad2 . Sgol2 assists in bi-orientation of bivalent chromosomes on the metaphase plate . Time-lapse confocal microscopy images from oocytes expressing H2B-mCherry and GFP-MCAK . Representative images from litter-mate control , sgol2Δ/Δ , sgol2Δ/Δ microinjected with wild type , N54A , H150E , and T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA are aligned to show the dynamics of MCAK localization and chromosome movements along the meiotic spindle . Representative images from control , sgol2Δ/Δ , and sgol2Δ/Δ microinjected with wild type and T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA are displayed . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of control oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK and H2B-mCherry mRNA . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK and H2B-mCherry mRNA . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK , H2B-mCherry and Sgol2 mRNA . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK , H2B-mCherry and N54A Sgol2 mRNA . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK , H2B-mCherry and H150E Sgol2 mRNA . 019 Inter-kinetochore distances correlated inversely with GFP-MCAK signals at kinetochores . Thus , MCAK is missing from kinetochores in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes and more abundant  in mutant cells microinjected with Sgol2 mRNA  . Because phosphorylation of human Sgol2 at T537 and T620  by Aurora B has been implicated in the association of MCAK with Sgol2 in mitotic cells  , we tested the effect of AZD1152 , an Aurora B  kinase inhibitor . This eliminated accumulation at kinetochores of both T521 phosphorylated Sgol2  and MCAK  . Crucially , injection of mRNA encoding T521A T600A Sgol2 into sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes failed to restore accumulation of MCAK at kinetochores  and to reduce inter-kinetochore distances  . Interestingly , neither the Aurora B/C inhibitor nor T521A T600A prevented MCAK’s recruitment to chromosome arms  . The effect of T521A T600A on MCAK’s kinetochore binding was highly specific as the mutant Sgol2 protein still accumulated at kinetochores  , recruited PP2A to this location , and protected centromeric cohesion from separase  . Aurora B/C Kinase phosphorylates Sgol2 on T521 . Oocytes harvested from wild type control females at GV stage were matured in vitro and chromosome spreads were prepared at 2 and 4 hr post-GVBD . Slides were stained for DNA  , Sgol2  , and CREST  . Fluorescence intensity ratios of Sgol2 and CREST at kinetochores were quantified . Numbers of oocytes examined are indicated  . Chromosome spreads were prepared at 2 and 4 hr post-GVBD from wild type control oocytes . Slides were stained for DNA  , anti-T521p-Sgol2  , and CREST  . Aurora B/C kinase activity was inhibited by culturing oocytes in M16 medium supplemented with the AZD1152  inhibitor . Fluorescence intensity ratios of T521p–Sgol2 and CREST at kinetochores were quantified . Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected at GV stage with GFP-MCAK , H2B-mCherry and T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA . 021 These observations suggest that bivalent stretching might be inhibited by recruitment of MCAK to kinetochores by Sgol2 . If so , increased inter-kinetochore distances in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes should be reduced by targeting MCAK to centromeres by artificial means , namely by expression of an MCAK protein whose N-terminus is fused to the C-terminus of CENPB-eGFP . Remarkably , CENPB-eGFP-MCAK , but not CENPB-eGFP , reduced inter-kinetochore distances  . We conclude that Sgol2 moderates the pulling force exerted on bivalents by recruiting MCAK to kinetochores , a process dependent on phosphorylation of Sgol2 by Aurora B/C kinases . Upper panel displays Z-projected time-course confocal microscopy video of control and sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes microinjected at GV stage with CENPB-eGFP and H2B-mCherry mRNA . Lower panel displays representative confocal video of sgol2Δ/Δ oocyte microinjected with CENPB-eGFP-MCAK and H2B-mCherry mRNA . Live-cell confocal imaging of wild type mouse oocytes microinjected with H2B-mCherry and GFP-MCAK showed that MCAK accumulates at MTOCs and on microtubules during phase 1  but does not appear at kinetochores until chromosomes congress on the surface of the ball at the start of phase 2 . This event is accompanied by an increase in Sgol2’s abundance at kinetochores and by phosphorylation of T521  . MCAK’s abundance at kinetochores gradually increases during phase 3 as chromosomes invade the spindle apparatus and peaks as chromosomes bi-orient on the metaphase plate  . This sequence of events is substantially altered in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes . Though GFP-MCAK co-localizes with MTOCs and microtubules , it never subsequently accumulates at kinetochores  . Microinjection of Sgol2 mRNAs into sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes greatly accelerated both invasion of the ball by chromosomes and their bi-orientation , with the latter occurring even earlier than in wild type oocytes and before metamorphosis of the ball into a bipolar spindle  . Thus , while loss of Sgol2 delays bi-orientation , the modest over-expression caused by mRNA microinjection accelerates this process . Sgol2 promotes bi-orientation of homologous chromosomes by increasing kinetochore-microtubule interactions . Oocytes harvested at GV stage from wild type , sgol2Δ/Δ and sgol2Δ/Δ microinjected with wild type , T521A T600A Sgol2 mRNA and CENPB-eGFP-MCAK mRNA were cultured in M16 medium for 6 hr . At 6 hr post-GVBD , oocytes were fixed in 1% PFA were stained with anti-β-tubulin  , CREST  , and DAPI  . For Aurora B/C inhibition , oocytes harvested from Sgol2 knockout females were cultured in M16 medium for 4 hr . Oocytes were cultured until 6 hr post-GVBD and were then fixed in 1% PFA . 023 Crucially , the precocious bi-orientation caused by Sgol2 mRNA injection was unaffected by N54A or by H150E mutations but abrogated by T521A T600A  , which also abolished MCAK’s accumulation at kinetochores and compromised chromosome alignment  , possibly due to increased association of MCAK with the arms of bivalent chromosomes  . Injection of Sgol2 T521A T600A still advanced polar body extrusion  , demonstrating that SAC silencing by Sgol2 does not depend on rapid or possibly even accurate chromosome bi-orientation and suggesting that these activities are mediated by separate domains within Sgol2 . Surprisingly , injection of mRNAs encoding CENPB-eGFP-MCAK instead of Sgol2 did not accelerate chromosome bi-orientation  , raising the possibility that Sgol2 facilitates bi-orientation by a mechanism either independent of or in addition to MCAK’s recruitment to kinetochores . Because , bi-orientation of bivalent chromosomes correlates with the appearance of kinetochore-microtubule bundles  , we visualized these in oocytes fixed in 1% PFA following a brief treatment with a calcium-containing buffer , which destabilizes the more dynamic non-kinetochore-microtubules . This revealed three differences between wild type and sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes at 6 hr post-GVBD , when most kinetochores in wild type have relinquished lateral and formed end on attachments and chromosomes have bi-oriented . Kinetochore associated microtubules bundles  were thinner and more sparse , lateral attachments were greatly increased in frequency , and kinetochores  were frequently highly stretched in mutant oocytes  . Microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA had the opposite effect , eliminating lateral attachments and kinetochore stretching while greatly increasing the abundance of end-on microtubules associated with each kinetochore , an effect abrogated by T521A T600A  . This suggests that the accumulation at kinetochores of Sgol2 phosphorylated by Aurora B/C kinase stimulates the conversion of lateral to end on attachments and that this may be the mechanism by which Sgol2 accelerates chromosome bi-orientation . Because injection of CENPB-eGFP-MCAK mRNAs instead of Sgol2 largely failed to increase end-on attachments at the expense of lateral ones  , we suspect that Sgol2 phosphorylated by Aurora B/C has a function at kinetochores besides MCAK recruitment  . Because Aurora B kinase destabilizes kinetochore-microtubule attachments , at least partly by phosphorylating proteins within the KMN network  , we tested whether Sgol2 altered the phosphorylation of Ser24 on Knl1  . Remarkably , the ratio of p-Knl1 to CREST signals in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes at 6 hr post-GVBD was more than double that of wild type controls  . Microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA reduced this to below wild type , an effect unaltered by N54A but largely abolished by T521A T600A  . Interestingly , these effects were specific to kinetochores as auto-phosphorylation of Aurora B/C on chromosome arms was unaltered in the mutant oocytes  . Importantly , Sgol2 did not alter the overall amount of Aurora C at kinetochores  . These results imply that Sgol2 counters phosphorylation of KMN network proteins by a mechanism not involving its recruitment of PP2A . Strangely , this process seems to depend on Sgol2’s prior phosphorylation by the very same kinases that it ultimately inhibits . In other words , Aurora B/C creates its own inhibitor at kinetochores , creating a negative feedback loop . Consistent with this notion , the gradual accumulation at kinetochores of Sgol2 phosphorylated at T521 following GVBD  is accompanied by a corresponding reduction in Dsn1 Ser100 phosphorylation  . Critically , Sgol2’s ability to inhibit Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores does not depend on kinetochore-microtubule interactions , as Sgol2 reduced auto-phosphorylation of Aurora B/C even in the presence of microtubule destabilizing drug  . To address whether hyper-activity of Aurora B/C at kinetochores could be responsible for the paucity of K-fibers in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes , we tested the effect of the Aurora kinase inhibitor AZD1152 . This both increased the density of K-fibers and reduced kinetochore stretching but did not eliminate lateral attachments  , which may require direct involvement of MCAK . We suggest that Sgol2 promotes chromosome bi-orientation by inhibiting Aurora B/C kinase as well as by recruiting MCAK . Sgol2 inhibits Aurora B/C Kinase activity at kinetochores . Chromosome spreads were prepared from indicated groups at 4 hr post-GVBD . Chromosome spreads prepared at 4 hr post-GVBD were stained with DAPI  , anti-p-Aurora A/B/C  and CREST  . Kinetochore fluorescence intensity ratios of p-Aurora A/B/C and CREST are displayed . Sgol2 knockout and Sgol2 knockout oocytes injected with wild type Sgol2 mRNA were cultured for 6 hr from GVBD in M16 medium supplemented with 400 nM Nocodazole . Chromosome spreads were stained for DNA  , p-Aurora A/B/C  , and CREST  . anti-S100p-Dsn1 and CREST kinetochore intensity ratios , quantified from chromosome spreads prepared at 3 and 6 hr post-GVBD from wild type control oocytes . Sgol2 decreases Aurora C activity at the kinetochores without affecting its localization . Chromosome spreads were prepared from the indicated groups at 4 hr post-GVBD . Slides were stained for DNA  , Aurora C  , and CREST  . Fluorescence intensity ratios of Aurora C and CREST at kinetochores are displayed . 025 Previous work has shown that Sgol2 is essential for protection of centromeric cohesin from separase at the first meiotic division  . Our creation and analysis of mutations within Sgol2’s highly conserved coiled coil reveals the likely mechanism , namely recruitment of PP2A to centromeres . However , if cohesion protection were Sgol2’s sole function , then its depletion should not compromise chromosome segregation during meiosis I . On the contrary , depletion of Sgol2 specifically in oocytes has highly pleiotropic consequences already during meiosis I . These include inefficient SAC silencing , greatly increased bivalent stretching , and major alterations in the dynamics of kinetochore-microtubule attachments  . We show that Sgol2 silences the SAC by binding to Mad2 using a similar MIM motif common to Mad2’s other two partners Cdc20 and Mad1 . This raises the possibility that Sgol2 silences the SAC by competing with Cdc20 for the binding of activated Mad2 , thereby preventing formation of the MCC . However , this cannot be the full story as SAC silencing also depends on Sgol2’s ability to bind PP2A . Because Sgol2’s MIM motif is close to the coiled coil by which it binds PP2A , it is conceivable that PP2A directly  facilitates the formation or stability of ‘closed’ complexes between Sgol2 and Mad2 . This hypothesis is supported by the fact that only dephosphorylated Mad2 interacts with Cdc20 and Sgol2 , while a phosphomimetic mutant of Mad2 cannot associate with either of these proteins  . Thus , PP2A could selectively stabilize the Sgol2-Mad2 complex by keeping Mad2 in a de-phosphorylated state . Therefore , it is conceivable that if there were sufficient turnover of Mad2 bound to MCC , then PP2A could promote the Sgol2: Mad2 complex formation and thus alter the activity of the MCC responsible for inhibiting the APC/C . Unlike centromeric protection and SAC silencing , Sgol2’s regulation of bivalent stretching depends not on its ability to bind PP2A but instead on phosphorylation at T521 and T600 by Aurora B/C kinases . This facilitates MCAK accumulation at kinetochores . Because artificial recruitment of MCAK to kinetochores by fusion to CENP-B substitutes for Sgol2 with regard to bivalent stretching , we suggest that it is the population of MCAK recruited to kinetochores by Sgol2 that moderates the pulling forces exerted on maternal and paternal kinetochores , possibly by reducing the incidence of lateral attachments . Artificial MCAK recruitment did not however restore normal looking end on attachments or greatly facilitate bi-orientation in Sgol2 deficient oocytes , implying that Sgol2 has yet another function at kinetochores besides recruiting PP2A and MCAK . Our observation that auto-phosphorylation of Aurora B/C kinases as well as phosphorylation of KMN proteins are elevated in Sgol2’s absence but depressed upon microinjection of Sgol2 mRNA suggests that this other function of Sgol2 is to act as a kinetochore-specific inhibitor of Aurora B/C kinases . The notion that Sgol2 moderates Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores was unexpected , as it has been reported that xSgo2 , a newly discovered homolog of shugoshin in Xenopus , actually promotes Aurora Kinase activity , generating a favourable environment for microtubule polymerization  . m Sgol2 appears to act as an inhibitor only at kinetochores . A remarkable feature of this effect is that Sgol2’s ability to inhibit Aurora B/C kinases at kinetochores depends on its prior phosphorylation at T521 and T600 by the very same Aurora kinases . Whether the phosphorylation of Sgol2 necessary for it to act as an inhibitor of Aurora kinases at kinetochores is also generated at this location or along chromosome arms or elsewhere in the cell is currently unclear . Aurora B/C protein kinases have a key role in destabilizing inappropriate kinetochore-microtubule attachments , namely those that do not generate tension  . They are therefore essential for the efficient bi-orientation of bivalent chromosomes . We suggest that an important feature of meiosis I in oocytes is an early phase of high Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores followed by a later phase of lowered activity made possible by the Aurora B/C-Sgol2 negative feedback loop . The lowered activity of Aurora B/C might increase the MT-depolymerizing activity of MCAK at kinetochores  . This is supported by the fact that the kinetochore pool of MCAK , recruited by Sgol2 , is indeed not phosphorylated at serine 92 in mouse oocytes  . How Sgol2 inhibits Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores is also unclear , in particular whether Sgol2 does this alone or only in conjunction with the recruitment of MCAK . Given the number of fundamental processes regulated by Sgol2 , it is surprising that sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes often manage to undergo the first meiotic division without generating massive aneuploidy . We suggest that all of the processes regulated by Sgol2 are fundamentally essential but that they are also regulated by Sgol2-independent pathways . In other words , the processes regulated by Sgol2 may be so fundamental that there are multiple pathways regulating them . It is not inconceivable that Sgol1 , which is also expressed during meiosis , shares some functions with Sgol2 and it will therefore be interesting to analyze the phenotype of double mutant oocytes . What is possibly most remarkable is that a single protein regulates sister chromatid cohesion , chromosome traction , the spindle assembly checkpoint , and lastly Aurora B/C kinases . Crucially , by demonstrating that different point mutations alter the regulation of some but not other processes , we have proven that the pleiotropy observed in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes is not due to knock on effects  of eliminating a single function . Sgol2 possesses several different domains that regulate fundamentally different processes  . Graphical summary of sequence features , interactions and key functions of Sgol2 in mouse oocytes . 026 Generation of the Sgol2 knockout mice has been described  . To detect Rec8 , females from a transgenic line expressing Rec8 from a bacterial artificial chromosome  , with nine tandem copies of the human c-myc epitope at its C terminus , were crossed to sgol2Δ/+ males . Litters with genotypes sgol2Δ/+  Rec8- Myc+ were crossed back to sgol2Δ/+ mice to generate sgol2Δ/+  Rec8-Myc+  and sgol2Δ/Δ  Rec8-Myc+ female . For intracellular microinjections , oocytes were placed in droplets of M2 medium with IBMX . Capped mRNA constructs with a poly-A tail were transcribed using T3 or T7 Ultra mMESSAGE kit  from plasmid cDNA encoding H2B-mCherry , wild type Sgol2  , and various mutants of Sgol2 , GFP-Sgol2 , Securin-eGFP , GFP-MCAK , CENPB-eGFP , CENPB-eGFP-MCAK , and GFP-EB3 . Fully-grown oocytes were injected with 5–10 pl mRNA at a final concentration of 0 . To allow for protein expression , following microinjection of mRNA , GV oocytes were cultured for 12 hr in M16 supplemented with IBMX . Oocytes were then washed in inhibitor-free M16 and thereafter cultured at 37°C and 5% CO2 . Chromosome spreads from mouse oocytes were prepared as previously described  . In this study , we used CREST  , rabbit anti-Sgol2 serum  , anti-phospho T521 Sgol2  , anti-MCAK  , anti-phospho S24 Knl1  , anti-phospho S100 Dsn1  , antibody detecting T288 , T232 or T198 on Aurora A/B/C  , anti-Aurora C  , mouse anti-PP2A-C  , and anti-c-Myc  . For analysis of K-fibers , oocytes were processed as previously described  . Oocytes were briefly stained with Hoechst 33 , 342  before confocal imaging . Recombinant MBP-Sgol2cc-His and MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag were purified from 1l of Escherichia coli BL21  RIPL  carrying corresponding expression cassettes in pMAL-c2x-  and pET28b-based backbones  , grown at 37°C in 2xTY media supplemented with 25 μg/ml chloramphenicol and 100 μg/ml ampicillin for pMAL-c2x or 50 μg/ml kanamycin for pET28b . 4 , MBP-Sgol2cc-His or -Flag synthesis was induced at 30°C by the addition of 0 . MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag was eluted with four times 1 ml of lysis buffer containing 3 × FLAG peptide  . MBP-Sgol2cc-His was eluted with 10 ml of lysis buffer containing 1 M of imidazole . The concentration of MBP-Sgol2cc-His and MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag were determined by nanodrop against the lysis solution . For all binding assays , highly-purified PP2A subunits  and MBP-Sgol2cc-Flag were used . MBP-Sgol2cc-His was eluted with 10 ml of lysis buffer containing 1 M of imidazole . The abundance of His and Flag-tagged MBP-Sgol2cc were analyzed by western blot using anti-Flag  and anti-His  antibodies . 
Imaging of RNA localization and translation in cultured Aplysia sensory-motor neurons revealed that RNAs were delivered throughout the arbor of the sensory neuron , but that translation was enriched only at sites of synaptic contact and/or synaptic stimulation . Investigation of the mechanisms that trigger local translation revealed a role for calcium-dependent retrograde netrin-1/DCC receptor signaling . Similarly , when isolated Aplysia sensory neurites , severed from their somata , are paired with motor neurons , they undergo a form of serotonin  -induced LTF that does not last as long as the LTF in cultures containing intact SNs  . In this study , we directly monitored RNA targeting from the soma to stimulated synapses during synapse formation and synaptic plasticity . To examine synapse formation , we cultured a single bifurcated Aplysia SN with a target  MN , with which it formed glutamatergic synapses , and a non-target  MN , with which it fasciculated but did not form chemical synapses  . To study RNA localization during synapse-specific plasticity , we cultured bifurcated SNs with two target MNs and locally perfused 5HT onto the connection with one MN to produce synapse-specific LTF . We found that rRNA , three specific mRNAs , ribosomal proteins , and translation factors were delivered throughout the SN , to both synaptic and non-synaptic sites , but that translation was significantly enriched at sites of synaptic contact and at sites of synaptic stimulation . In investigating the nature of such a trans-synaptic signal , we uncovered a role for netrin-1/DCC signaling in local translation at synapses . Our findings are thus consistent with neurons delivering transcripts and translational machinery throughout the neuron , but with a synaptically restricted netrin-1-dependent signal triggering localized translation at synapses . Towards this end , we performed fluorescent in situ hybridization  for 18S and 28S rRNA in cultures  containing a bifurcated SN contacting a target L7 MN , with which it formed glutamatergic synapses , and a non-target L11 MN , with which it fasciculated but did not form chemical synapses  . Quantification of 18S  and 28S  RNA in the proximal SN branches did not reveal any significant difference in concentration in the branch contacting the L7 target MN and the branch contacting the L11 non-target MN . We also examined the distribution of ribosomes by expressing the Aplysia ribosomal protein S6 tagged with the fluorescent tag dendra2 in bifurcated SNs contacting both target L7 and non-target L11 MNs  . This allowed us to detect the ribosomal protein S6 in distal SNs without any signal from the MN  . As shown in Figure 1E , F , S6-dendra2 targeted equally to distal SN branches contacting target or non-target MNs . Together , these data indicate that ribosomes are delivered throughout the SN and are not targeted specifically from the soma to branches receiving synaptogenic signals . rRNA targets equally well to SN branches contacting target and non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes . Areas in proximal SN neurites outlined with white squares in  were imaged at high magnification in  ; left panels show merged images of DIC and Alexa fluorescence , and right panels show FISH signals . Group data show that 18S rRNA  is evenly distributed in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 1 day and a plasmid expressing ApS6 tagged with dendra2 was microinjected together with Alexa647  into the SN . Group data show that ApS6  is evenly distributed in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . 28S rRNA targets equally well to SN branches contacting target and non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes . Group data show that 28S rRNA  is evenly distributed in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . 004 As a candidate localized mRNA , we first examined the transcript encoding the SN-specific neuropeptide sensorin , which not only localizes to distal sensory neurites but also concentrates at synapses . Since sensorin is only expressed in SNs , we could visualize sensorin mRNA in proximal and distal neurites without any background signal from MNs . We have previously shown that the neuritic and synaptic localization of sensorin mRNA are mediated by distinct signals  and that sensorin mRNA undergoes localized translation at synapses during 5HT-mediated LTF  . FISH for sensorin mRNA in 3DIV cultures revealed that the sensorin transcript localized equally to both proximal  and distal  branches of bifurcated sensory neurons contacting L7 or L11 MNs . The pattern of sensorin mRNA in distal branches was distinct , with diffuse distribution of sensorin mRNA in branches contacting non-target MNs and punctate concentrations of sensorin RNA at SN synapses onto target MNs  . However , the same amount of RNA was present in both SN branches . These findings are consistent with a lack of directed targeting of sensorin mRNA from soma to branches receiving synaptogenic signals , although there is local redistribution of sensorin mRNA within the neuronal process at synaptic sites . Sensorin mRNA targets equally well to SN branches contacting target and non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and a L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes; in  , Alexa 546  was also microinjected into the L7 MN before imaging to visualize the L7 MN processes . Cultures were processed for Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization  for sensorin . Areas outlined with white squares in  was imaged at high-magnification to visualize mRNA in distal  SN neurites contacting L7 and L11 MNs , respectively; left panels show merged images of DIC and Alexa fluorescence , and right panels show sensorin mRNA FISH signals . Group data show that sensorin mRNA  is evenly distributed in proximal and distal SN neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . The pattern of sensorin mRNA distribution differs in distal branches contacting L7 and L11 MNs , as shown in Figure 2—figure supplement 1A , because sensorin mRNA concentrates at synapses  . Sensorin mRNA distribution in DIV3 SN-MN cultures and localization in DIV1 SN-MN cultures . The coefficient of variation for sensorin mRNA  indicates that the pattern of sensorin mRNA distribution is distinct in distal SN branches contacting L7 target MN , as previously described in Lyles et al . To analyze sensorin mRNA distribution at earlier time points , a bifurcated SN was cultured with two target MNs for 1 day  . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes . Cultures were processed for Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization  for sensorin mRNA . Areas in proximal and distal  SN neurites outlined with lettered white squares in  were imaged at high magnification in  ; left panels show images of Alexa fluorescence in SN  , and right panels show sensorin FISH signals . Group data show that sensorin rRNA is evenly distributed in proximal  and distal  SN neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . β-Thymosin mRNA localizes equally well to SN branches contacting target and non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes . Group data show that β-thymosin mRNA  is evenly distributed in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . 007 We also examined the distribution of the mRNA encoding β-thymosin , which we had previously identified as a localized mRNA in Aplysia SNs  . Since β-thymosin is expressed in both SN and MN , we examined its localization in proximal SN processes . As shown in Figure 2—figure supplement 2 , β-thymosin mRNA was distributed equally well in SN branches contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . As shown in Figure 3C , D , we found that equal amounts of 5HT-induced EF1α were delivered to SN branches contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging to visualize SN processes . Areas in proximal SN neurites outlined with white squares in low magnification DIC image on the left were imaged at high magnification to visualize EF1α mRNA FISH signal . Group data show that EF1α mRNA is evenly distributed between SN neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs both in control cultures  , and in cultures undergoing 5HT-induced LTF  . A bifurcated SN was cultured with two LFS motor neurons  for 3 days . Areas in soma and proximal SN neurites outlined with lettered white squares in low magnification DIC image on the left were imaged at high magnification to visualize EF1α mRNA FISH signal . The increase in EF1α mRNA FISH signal in  as compared to  indicates that EF1α mRNA was induced by local stimulation with 5x5HT . This increase is quantified in SN soma and in proximal neurites in  and  . As shown in  , basally expressed and local stimulation-induced EF1α mRNA was evenly distributed between 5HT-stimulated  - and unstimulated  -SN branches . Towards this end , we cultured a bifurcated SN with two target LFS MNs and used local perfusion to deliver five applications of 5HT to the connections made onto one of the MNs , which we have previously shown produces branch-specific LTF  . We next studied the localization of the RNA binding protein Staufen in SNs contacting target and non-target MNs by expressing Aplysia Staufen  tagged with the fluorescent protein dendra2 in bifurcated sensory neurons . As shown in Figure 4 , we found that ApStaufen-dendra2 was transported equally well to branches contacting target and non-target MNs . The RNA binding protein Aplysia Staufen targets equally well to SN neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . C-terminally tagged dendra2-tagged Aplysia Staufen  was microinjected together with Alexafluor 647  into a cultured bifurcated SN contacting an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN at 1DIV . Staufen granules in SN neurites were imaged 48 hr later . Left panels show merged DIC/Alexa fluor images , and right panels show ApStaufen-dendra2 granules images . Group data reveal that the number of ApStaufen-dendra2 granules per 20 μm was the same in neurites contacting target L7 MNs  and non-target L11 MNs  , Student's paired t-test at each time point . The RNA binding protein Aplysia Staufen targets equally well to stimulated- and unstimulated-SN processes after local perfusion . and  bifurcated sensory neurons  were cultured with two target LFS motor neurons  . C-terminally tagged dendra2-tagged Aplysia Staufen  was expressed in the SN , which was also labeled by microinjection with Alexa647  . The upper panels in A  and B  show ApStaufen-granules in SN branches perfused with 5HT or ASW; the lower panels in A  and B  show ApStaufen-containing granules in SN branches that were not perfused . Local perfusion with 5X5HT significantly increased the number of ApStaufen-containing granules , to an equal extent , in stimulated- and unstimulated-SN branches  . 010 We also examined the distribution of ApStaufen-dendra2 in SN paired with two target MNs following local stimulation with 5X5HT to induce branch-specific LTF . As shown in Figure 4—figure supplement 1 , equal numbers of ApStaufen-dendra2 puncta were present in both SN branches in prior to stimulation and following local perfusion with vehicle  . While local stimulation with 5X5HT increased the number of ApStaufen-dendra2 puncta in the SN processes  , the increase was equivalent in stimulated- and unstimulated-SN branches . We have previously reported that local translation is spatially restricted to stimulated synapses during synapse-specific long-term facilitation  of SN-MN synapses  ; here , we asked whether local translation is also spatially restricted during synapse formation . To do this , we performed immunocytochemistry with anti-sensorin antibodies in sensory-motor cocultures  . Again , we chose to focus on sensorin because it is only expressed in the SN and thus the signal derives exclusively from the SN . As shown in Figure 5B , C , sensorin protein was present at much higher concentrations in SN branches contacting target MNs than in branches contacting non-target MNs . These data are consistent with sensorin expression being spatially regulated at the level of translational regulation rather than mRNA targeting . Local translation is greater in SN neurites contacting L7 target MNs than in neurites contacting L11 non-target MNs . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN for 3 days . Alexa647 was microinjected into the SN and served as a volume filling control for analysis of immunocytochemistry  . To monitor local translation , we performed ICC for phosphorylated eIF4E  , phosphorylated 4EBP , and sensorin protein . Group data in  reveal that phospho-eIF4E , phospho-4EBP , and sensorin protein concentrations are significantly greater in neurites contacting L7 target MNs than in neurites contacting L11 non-target MNs . As shown in Figure 5—figure supplement 1 , total eIF4E and total 4EBP protein were distributed equally well in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . To directly image local translation , we expressed a translational reporter consisting of sensorin mRNA fused to the photoconvertible fluorescent protein dendra2 ( as described in Wang et al .  ) , removed the SN soma  , and 12–18 hr later photoconverted the dendra2 signal from green to red  . Group data  show that there is significantly more translation , measured as ΔF/F , in neurites contacting L7 target MNs than in neurites contacting L11 non-target MNs . Local translation is enriched in SN branches contacting L7 MN . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa dye 647  was microinjected into the SN before imaging  . Group data in  reveal that phospho-4EBP accumulation was significantly greater in neurites contacting L7 target MNs than in neurites contacting L11 non-target MNs . However , total eIF4E  and total 4EBP  protein were distributed equally well in neurites contacting L7 target and L11 non-target MNs . 012 We previously reported live imaging experiments using a translational reporter consisting of the 5′ and 3′ UTRs of sensorin fused to the photoconvertible fluorescent protein dendra2 to demonstrate synapse-specific translation during synapse-specific LTF of SN-MN synapses  . To do this , we expressed the reporter in bifurcated SNs contacting L7 and L11 MNs and removed the SN cell body so that we could specifically monitor translation in neuronal processes . As shown in Figure 5E , G , we detected a significantly greater increase in green signal in SN processes contacting the L7 target MN than in the SN processes contacting the L11 non-target MN . Together , these experiments indicate that although sensorin mRNA is delivered throughout the SN , it is preferentially translated at sites of synaptic contact . As shown in Figure 5B , C and Figure 5—figure supplement 1A , I , both eIF4E and 4EBP proteins distributed equally in SN branches contacting target and non-target MNs . However , when we used phospho-specific antibodies that recognize the activated forms of eIF4E  and 4EBP  , we detected significantly higher concentrations in SN branches making synaptic contact with L7 MNs . As shown in Figure 6 , these experiments revealed significantly more protein synthesis in SN varicosities contacting the synaptic L7 target MN than in SN contacts with the non-target L11 MN . Global translation is also enriched in SN branches contacting L7 MN . A bifurcated SN was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN  for 3 days . Alexa488  was microinjected into the SN as a volume control for imaging  . Arrows indicated puromycin immunoreactivity in SN varicosity  in the middle panel . Group data  show that the puromycin incorporation is greater in SN branches contacting L7 target MNs than in branches contacting non-target L11 target MNs . 013 Our previous study using translational reporters to visualize local translation of sensorin mRNA during LTF of Aplysia SN-MN synapses  revealed that serotonin-regulated translation specifically at stimulated synapses and that this regulation required a calcium-dependent trans-synaptic signal from the MN to the SN  . Netrin-1 binding was shown to trigger the release of bound translational components and to thereby promote localized , netrin-1- dependent protein synthesis . Together , these findings suggested that release of netrin-1 from either SN or MN during synapse formation and during synaptic plasticity triggers translation at sites of synaptic but not non-synaptic contacts . We tested the possibility that netrin-1 regulates the synthesis of localized transcripts by incubating Aplysia sensory-motor neuronal cultures with recombinant Fc-netrin-1 . As shown in Figure 7A , C , bath application of netrin-1  for 24 hr increased sensorin immunoreactivity in SN branches contacting the L11 non-target MN , such that there was no longer any branch-specificity of sensorin protein concentration . Netrin-1 increases protein synthesis in SNs and strength of SN-target MN synapses . A bifurcated sensory neuron was cultured with an L7 target MN and an L11 non-target MN for 3 days . Alexa647 was microinjected into SNs and served as a volume filling control for the analysis of immunocytochemistry  . Cultures were incubated with 250 ng/ml recombinant Fc human netrin-1 for 24 hr . Representative high magnification images of areas marked by white squares in  are shown in  , with merged DIC/Alexa488 in the left panels , and sensorin ICC in the right panels . Group data  reveal that the concentration of sensorin in netrin-1-treated SNs is the same in neurites contacting L7 target MNs and L11 non-target MNs . We compared sensorin  and phospho-eIF4E immunoreactivity  in SN-LFS target MN cultures in the presence and absence of 250 ng/ml Fc-netrin-1  . Representative high magnification images of areas denoted by white squares in left panels of  stained with anti-sensorin antibodies are shown in right panels of  . The effect of netrin-1 on sensorin immunoreactivity in isolated SN processes and on eIF4E and phospho-eIF4e immunoreactivity is shown in Figure 7—figure supplement 1 . Netrin-1 also increased synaptic strength: representative traces of EPSPs evoked in LFS MNs after stimulation of SN , at time 0 and 24 hr after incubation with vehicle  or netrin-1 are shown in  ; histogram of group data is shown in  . Histogram in  shows fold change in the number of varicosities between SN and LFS MN after 24 hr of incubation with vehicle  and netrin-1 . Netrin-1 increases local translation in soma-free SN processes in SN-MN cultures . SN-MNs were cultured for 3 days and the SN soma  was mechanically removed with sharp glass electrode . 12–18 hr later , cultures were incubated with recombinant Fc human netrin-1  and then processed for immunocytochemistry with sensorin antibodies  . As shown in the group data in  , recombinant Fc human netrin-1 increased translation in SN processes in cultures in which the soma was present  or removed  . Quantification of the effect of netrin-1  in intact SN-MN cultures  on eIF4e and phospho-eIF4e immunoreactivity , with sensorin immunoreactivity as a positive control , is shown in  . 015 To further examine the effect of netrin-1 on sensorin expression , we cultured SNs with target MNs in the presence or absence of netrin-1 and compared sensorin immunoreactivity . As shown in Figure 7D , E , incubation with netrin-1 significantly increased sensorin immunoreactivity . To differentiate between stimulated local translation and stimulated somatic translation followed by transport into the branches , we cultured bifurcated SN-MN , removed the SN cell body , incubated with netrin-1 , and processed the cultures 24 hr later for sensorin immunoreactivity  . These experiments revealed that netrin-1 increased sensorin concentration equally well in branches contacting both L7 and L11 MNs , consistent with local stimulation of translation . Netrin-1 also increased peIF4E immunoreactivity in SN-LFS cultures in which the SN soma had been removed  . The netrin-1-induced increase in sensorin immunoreactivity in intact SN-LFS cocultures was similar to that observed with five spaced applications of serotonin  , which produces LTF of SN-MN synapses and which has been shown to promote sensorin translation   . Moreover , netrin-1-induced translation in intact or soma-lacking SNs was blocked by pre-incubation with the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin  , indicating that the increased immunoreactivity did indeed result from increased translation  . We considered the possibility that netrin-1 might transform non-synaptic sites to synapses and that the increase in translation occurred as a result of the conversion of non-synaptic to synaptic sites . However , incubation of SN-L11 cocultures or L7-SN-L11 cocultures with netrin-1 did not result in the formation of synapse as shown by the absence of an excitatory post-synaptic potential  in the L11 MN after SN stimulation  . We did find , however , that incubation with netrin-1 significantly increased EPSP amplitude between SN and LFS target MNs  . LTF induced by five applications of 5HT has also been shown to involve significant increases in the number of SN varicosities  in SN-MN cultures  . We thus measured the effect of netrin-1 on varicosity numbers , and , as shown in Figure 7H , found that it significantly increased the number of SN synaptic varicosities in SN-LFS MN cultures . Together , these findings suggest that the local translation induced by netrin-1 increases synaptic strength and synapse number . To explore the mechanisms by which netrin-1 regulates translation , we first asked whether it did so by binding to DCC . To test this , we incubated cultured neurons with recombinant netrin-1 in the presence of monoclonal anti-DCC antibodies that have previously been shown to block netrin-1 binding to the DCC receptor  . We first showed that a 24 hr incubation of isolated SNs with netrin-1 triggered a significant increase in sensorin immunoreactivity , but that incubation of isolated SNs with anti-DCC  did not change sensorin immunoreactivity  . While anti-DCC antibodies had no effect on the basal concentration of sensorin in isolated SNs , they significantly decreased basal sensorin immunoreactivity in SN-MN cocultures  . Taken together , these findings are consistent with netrin-1 being endogenously released from the post-synaptic MN and binding to DCC on the SN to promote pre-synaptic translation of sensorin . Netrin-1 binds DCC to promote SN translation and to increase strength of SN-MN synapses . and  : immunocytochemistry  of isolated SNs  reveals an increase in sensorin immunoreactivity with recombinant Fc human netrin-1 incubation  , but no change from baseline following 24 hr of incubation with function-blocking anti-DCC antibodies  . To test the effect of function-blocking anti-DCC antibodies on sensorin and phospho-eIF4E  immunoreactivity and synapse formation in SN-LFS target MN cocultures , we cultured isolated SNs for a day , added anti-DCC  , and 6 hr later paired the SN with a target LFS MN . Representative cultures are shown in  . Group data  show that anti-DCC significantly decreases sensorin and peIF4E immunoreactivity , consistent with netrin being released from the MN to drive translation in the SN . SN-LFS MN pairs incubated with anti-DCC antibodies also showed significantly smaller EPSP amplitudes than do control cultures  . To query the function of netrin-1/DCC signaling in mature , established SN-LFS MN synapses , we cultured SN-LFS MNs for 2 days , added anti-DCC antibodies  for 24 hr , and then measured EPSP amplitude and fixed the cultures for ICC . Representative cultures are shown in  . Group data show that anti-DCC antibodies significantly decreased sensorin and peIF4E immunoreactivity  and EPSP amplitude between SN-LFS MNs  . 016 We next explored the function of netrin-1/DCC signaling during synapse formation . Towards this end , we cultured a SN for 24 hr , then added a MN in the presence or absence of vehicle  , control IgG  , or function-blocking anti-DCC antibodies , and measured EPSP amplitude 24 hr later . As shown in Figure 8H , EPSP amplitude was significantly lower in cultures incubated with anti-DCC antibodies than in control cultures . This was accompanied by a decrease in sensorin immunoreactivity in the cultures incubated with anti-DCC antibodies  . To determine whether netrin-1/DCC also regulated synapse maintenance and/or stability , we cultured SN-MN neurons for 2 days , added anti-DCC antibodies , and then measured EPSP amplitude 24 hr later . As shown in Figure 8E , this also triggered a significant decrease in EPSP amplitude  and sensorin immunoreactivity  , consistent with netrin-1/DCC signaling contributing to synapse stability/maintenance . To further examine netrin-1 and DCC expression in Aplysia SN-MN cocultures , we cloned the Aplysia homologs  . Aplysia Netrin-1  was 47% identical and 60% conserved with human Netrin-1 , and Aplysia DCC  was 31% identical and 47% conserved with human DCC . To assay the effect of ApNetrin-1 on synaptic strength , we overexpressed c-terminally tagged dendra2-ApNetrin-1 in MNs  and determined the effect on sensorin immunoreactivity  and SN-MN strength . As shown in Figure 9 , overexpression of dendra2-tagged ApNetrin-1 in MNs generated a punctate staining pattern throughout the neuronal process . Overexpression of ApNetrin-1 in the MN significantly increased the concentration of sensorin protein in the SN as measured by immunocytochemistry  , consistent with a netrin-1-dependent stimulation of translation . Measurement of EPSP amplitude before and 24 hr after overexpression of dendra2-ApNetrin-1 , or overexpression of dendra2 as a negative control , revealed that ApNetrin-1 significantly increased synaptic strength between SN and MN  . Overexpression of Aplysia netrin-1 increases translation and synaptic strength in SN-MN synapses . SN-LFS MNs were cultured for 3 days  . The SN was microinjected with Alexa647  and the MN with a vector expressing Aplysia netrin-1  c-terminally tagged with dendra2  . ApNetrin-dendra is present in a punctate pattern throughout the MN process  . In  , on DIV3 , vectors expressing dendra2  or Aplysia netrin-1 c-terminally tagged with dendra2  were microinjected into the LFS MN . Basal EPSPs were measured before and 24 hr after microinjection , and cultures were then processed for immunocytochemistry with anti-sensorin antibodies . Representative high magnification images of areas denoted by white squares in  are shown in  with sensorin protein in the left panel and merged image for DIC/sensorin  in the right panel , in cultures in which the MN expresses dendra2  or ApNetrin-dendra2  . Group data  show that sensorin immunoreactivity was increased in SNs paired with MNs overexpressing ApNetrin-1 . Overexpression of ApNetrin in the MN also increases the EPSP amplitude , while overexpression of dendra2 in the MN has no effect on EPSP amplitude between SN and MN at 24 hr  . 017 Since our previous study had indicated that local translation required a calcium-dependent retrograde signal from the MN  , we next asked whether ApNetrin-1 release from the MN was a calcium-dependent process . To do this , we expressed ApNetrin-1 tagged with dendra2 in the MN , and labeled the MN with Alexa fluor 647 and the SN with ApDCC tagged with mCherry . As shown in Figure 10 , despite being expressed in the MN , the majority of the ApNetrin-1-dendra2 signal was found outside of the MN , decorating the processes of the SN , suggesting that ApNetrin-1 was released from the MN and bound to the SN . We note that overexpression of ApDCC-mCherry in the SN increased the ApNetrin-1 signal that decorated the SN  , and thus allowed us to clearly detect binding of green ApNetrin-1 expressed in the MN to the red SN . To determine whether ApNetrin-1 bound to DCC on the SN , we performed these experiments in cultures containing anti-DCC antibodies in the medium  . As shown in Figure 10—figure supplement 1 , incubation with anti-DCC antibodies dramatically decreased the binding of ApNetrin-1 to the SN , as assayed using Pearson's Correlation to monitor the colocalization of green ApNetrin-1-dendra2 and red DCC-mCherry . ApNetrin-1 undergoes calcium-dependent release from MN and binds SN . SN-LFS MNs were cultured for 2 days , and the SN was microinjected with a vector expressing ApDCC c-terminally tagged with mCherry  and the MN with Alexa647  and with a vector expressing Aplysia netrin-1  c-terminally tagged with dendra2  . In the top panel of  , the MN was microinjected with vehicle; in the bottom panel of  , the MN was microinjected with BAPTA  to chelate calcium . The green signal shows the ApNetrin-1 expressed in the MN; the red signal shows ApDCC expressed in the SN , the merged image is of the green ApNetrin-1  and red ApDCC  , and the far-right merged image is of DIC , Alexa647  , ApNetrin-1  , and ApDCC  . In cultures in which the MN was microinjected with vehicle , the ApNetrin-1  colocalizes with SN processes that are in contact with the MN soma   . In cultures in which calcium was chelated in the MN by microinjection of BAPTA , the ApNetrin-1  signal is present within the MN soma , and do not colocalize with the ApDCC  in SN processes that are in contact with the MN  . The amount of colocalization between the ApNetrin-1 signal and the SN  in the soma was quantified by Pearson's correlation  . Representative images of ApNetrin-1  signal in distal processes of MNs microinjected with buffer or with BAPTA are shown in  . In control  cultures , the green ApNetrin-1 signal decorates the red SN processes  . In cultures in which calcium has been chelated by microinjection of BAPTA into the MN , the green ApNetrin-1 signal remains sequestered within the MN  . Incubation with anti-DCC antibodies inhibits binding of MN-expressed ApNetrin-1 to SNs . SN-LFS MNs were cultured for 2 days , and the SN was microinjected with a vector expressing ApDCC c-terminally tagged with mCherry  and the MN with Alexa647  and with a vector expressing Aplysia netrin-1  c-terminally tagged with dendra2  . To test the effect of anti-DCC antibodies on the binding of ApNetrin-1 to the SN , cultures were incubated with anti-DCC antibodies  for 24 hr . The green signal shows the ApNetrin-1 expressed in the MN; the red signal shows ApDCC expressed in the SN , the merged image is of the green ApNetrin-1  and red ApDCC  , and the far-right merged image is of DIC , Alexa647  , ApNetrin-1  , and ApDCC  . In cultures incubated with ASW  or non-immune IgG  , ApNetrin-1  colocalizes with SN processes that are in contact with the MN soma  . However , in cultures incubated with anti-DCC antibodies , the ApNetrin-1  signal does not colocalize with ApDCC  in SN processes that are in contact with the MN   . The amount of colocalization between the ApNetrin-1 signal and the SN  in the soma was quantified by Pearson's correlation  . 019 To test whether release from the MN required calcium , we microinjected 50 mM BAPTA into the MN and 3 hr later imaged green ApNetrin-1-dendra2 signal localization . As shown in Figure 10B , D , when calcium was chelated in the MN , green ApNetrin-1-dendra2 signal was sequestered in the MN and did not colocalize with the SN . In contrast , in the absence of BAPTA , the green ApNetrin-1-dendra2 signal decorated the processes of the SN . Together , these findings are consistent with calcium-dependent release of ApNetrin-1 from the MN and binding to the SN . The Aplysia SN-MN culture system provides an ideal preparation for monitoring mRNA localization and local translation during synapse formation and synaptic plasticity , since a single neuron can be manipulated to form synapses or to undergo transcription- and translation-dependent synaptic strengthening in a branch-specific manner . We focused on a role for netrin-1 as the retrograde signal driving translation in the sensory neuron because it has been shown to promote translation in axonal growth cones  , to promote synaptogenesis in mammalian cortical neurons  , and because Flanagan et al . have reported that the netrin receptor DCC serves as a transmembrane translation regulation complex in dendrites and axons  . The finding that anti-DCC antibodies decrease sensorin immunoreactivity in SNs paired with MNs , but not in isolated SNs , is consistent with netrin-1 being released from the MN and binding to DCC on the adjacent pre-synaptic SN to promote the translation of sensorin at synapses . Netrin-1 binding to DCC may promote translation by releasing translational machinery from binding DCC cytoplasmic domains within the pre-synaptic terminal , as proposed by Flanagan et al . Alternatively , netrin-1-induced translation may be downstream of PI3 kinase and/or MAPK pathways , both of which are activated by netrin-1 binding to DCC  . We previously reported that serotonin-induced translation of sensorin in SNs required a calcium-dependent retrograde signal from the MN  . In the present study , we show that ApNetrin expressed in MN is released and binds to the SN in a calcium-dependent manner . One possibility is that it results from spontaneous release of glutamate from the pre-synaptic SN during synapse formation and/or during synaptic plasticity ( Eliot et al . While we used recombinant human netrin-1 and function-blocking antibodies against human DCC , we are confident that these reagents reflect the endogenous functions of netrin-1 and DCC in Aplysia . We cloned Aplysia netrin-1 and found that it is 47% identical and 60% similar to human netrin-1  . We also cloned Aplysia DCC and found that it is 31% identical and 47% similar to human DCC  . Finally , we show that overexpression of ApNetrin in MNs significantly increases synaptic strength and sensorin immunoreactivity  . We suspect that netrin-1/DCC signaling is one of multiple local cues and signaling pathways that regulate translation in neurons and that translation is not regulated in a digital on/off manner , but rather in a graded manner . This explains , for example , why there is some sensorin translation in SN neurites contacting non-target L11  , and why sensorin protein is expressed in isolated sensory neurons that have been incubated with anti-DCC antibodies  . Our previously published report that synapse formation alters the localization of sensorin mRNA such that it concentrates at synapses  , and that serotonin-regulated translation of a sensorin-based translational reporter was restricted to sites of synaptic contact , suggested that the activity-dependent synaptic localization of mRNA played a critical role in the regulation of its translation . Our current finding that netrin-1 increases translation at synaptic and non-synaptic sites indicates that the precise subcellular localization of the mRNA is secondary to the localization of the netrin-1 signal . Thus , sensorin mRNA does not have to be in the synaptic milieu per se to be translated but rather has to localize to a site in which netrin-1/DCC signaling can occur . We also note that we previously found that there was an increase in the concentration of sensorin mRNA in SN branches contacting target as compared to non-target MNs in more mature  cocultures  . This suggests that while there is not directed targeting of sensorin mRNA from soma to process during synapse formation , there may be preferential stabilization , over time , of sensorin mRNA at sites of synaptic contact . Thus , we can compare the amount of netrin-1-induced translation of the sensorin reporter in SN-LFS cocultures with and without the soma  . Although one cannot directly compare the total concentration of sensorin in intact SN and isolated SN neurites , our data indicate that netrin-1 is able to induce an equivalent increase in SN neurites in the presence or absence of a SN soma . In contrast , we found that every measure of translation that we employed demonstrated localized translation at synapses and/or stimulated synapses . Cultures were prepared from adult 80–100 gram Aplysia  for SN-LFS MN cultures or from the abdominal ganglion of juvenile Aplysia  for L7 and L11 MNs . Bifurcated SNs from the pedal–pleural ganglia were paired with L7 and L11 MNs from the abdominal ganglion of juvenile Aplysia or with two LFS MNs from adult animals . To induce LTF of SN-MN synapses , we applied five spaced applications of 5HT  using either bath or local perfusion . Local perfusion of 5x5HT consisted of local delivery of 5HT  to SN-MN synapses with a perfusion pipette; five applications were given at 10 min intervals , with each application consisting of five 5 s pulses given at 10 s intervals . For FISH and ICC experiments , we used a Picospritzer  to microinject 5 mM Alexa647  or Alexa546  as volume controls and to clearly differentiate SN from MN neurites at least 3 hr before confocal imaging . To investigate the distribution of RNA granules during synapse formation , 200 ng/μl ApStaufen-dendra2  together with Alexa647 was microinjected into SNs on DIV 1 and imaged on DIV3 . For the RNA granules targeting after local perfusion , images were acquired before and 24 hr after local perfusion . To measure new translation , we microinjected 200 ng/μl sensorin-dendra2 reporter ( in pNEX3 , described in Wang et al .  ) into SNs on DIV 1 . On day 2 , we removed the SN cell body and 18 hr later , we photoconverted dendra2 from green to red as a described in Wang et al . To compare new translation in SN branches contacting target or non-target motor neuron , we measured total fluorescence ( area  × mean fluorescence intensity ) of both green and red fluorescence using Slidebook5 software . New translation was normalized as the total pixel intensity in the dendra2 green signal to the dendra2 red signal 24 hr after photoconversion . To test whether ApNet-1 depends on post-synaptic Ca2+ , 200 ng/μl dendra2-tagged ApNet-1  was microinjected to the LFS MN and 200 ng/μl ApDCC-mCherry  was microinjected into the SN at DIV2 . 24 hrs later , 50 mM BAPTA in Buffer  was microinjected into the post-synaptic LFS MN . To test the effect of anti-DCC antibodies on the binding of MN-expressed ApNetrin-1-dendra2 to ApDCC-mCherry-expressing SNs , cultures were incubated with anti-DCC antibodies  for 24 hr . To measure varicosity number in SN-MN cocultures , a VAMP  -mCherry pNEX3 construct was expressed in SNs paired with LFS MNs for 48 hr . The number of varicosities was measured before and 24 hr after incubation with 250 ng/ml netrin-1 . Briefly , LFS MNs were impaled with a sharp glass electrode  filled with 2 M potassium acetate , and the membrane potential of MNs was held at −80 mV and of SNs at −50 mV . 2 and pCLAMP 8  following intracellular depolarization  of the SN . Specifically , we cultured Aplysia SNs with L7 target MNs and L11 non-target MNs for 3DIV and then replaced the culture media with L15 media . For FISH , after fixation , we hybridized with 40 ng/ml 18S rRNA , 28S rRNA , EF1α RNA , or sensorin RNA probed and imaged after FISH . To investigate netrin-1 mediated translation , 250 ng/ml recombinant Fc human netrin-1  in L15 media or functional blocking anti-DCC  was applied to cultures for 24 hr and then washed with L15 media . Degenerate primers were used to amplify segments of netrin-1 and DCC from RNA isolated from adult Aplysia CNS . 
Morphogenesis involves interactions of asymmetric cell populations to form complex multicellular patterns and structures comprised of distinct cell types . Our in vitro system interrogates cell-cell interactions and multicellular organization within human induced pluripotent stem cell  colonies . We examined effects of induced mosaic knockdown of molecular regulators of cortical tension  and cell-cell adhesion  with CRISPR interference . Mosaic knockdown of ROCK1 or CDH1 resulted in differential patterning within hiPSC colonies due to cellular self-organization , while retaining an epithelial pluripotent phenotype . For example , during gastrulation , the blastocyst transitions from a relatively homogeneous population of pluripotent cells to a spatially organized , multicellular composition of distinct progenitor cells . In addition , ROCK inhibition is often used in hPSC culture and has been implicated in pluripotency maintenance  . We genetically induced controlled symmetry-breaking events within hiPSC populations by creating mixed populations of hiPSCs with and without the CRISPRi system and then induced mosaic knockdown  . Mosaic KD was employed to interrogate how the creation of physical asymmetries in an otherwise homogeneous population leads to multicellular organization and pattern formation . We show that induction of mosaic KD of ROCK1 or CDH1 results in a ‘bottom-up’ cell-driven pattern formation of hiPSC colonies while preserving pluripotency . To establish an inducible CRISPRi KD of ROCK1 or CDH1 , we used a doxycycline  -inducible CRISPRi hiPSC line    . Guide RNA  sequences designed to target the transcription start site of ROCK1 or CDH1  were introduced into CRISPR-Gen1C hiPSCs and KD was induced by the addition of DOX  into cell culture media . After 3 days of KD induction , ROCK1 mRNA levels were <30% of hiPSCs without DOX treatment , and CDH1 mRNA levels in CDH1 KD hiPSCs were <10% compared to untreated controls  . Protein KD followed a similar trend where KD populations compared to untreated controls resulted in <20% ROCK1 protein and <10% of CDH1 protein by day three of DOX treatment , and reduced protein levels were maintained through day six of CRISPRi induction  . Both the ROCK1 KD cells and the CDH1 KD cells retained epithelial hiPSC morphologies without single cell migration away from the colonies  . However , CDH1 KD hiPSCs displayed irregular colony shapes that maintained smooth peripheral edges , but contained regions lacking cells within colonies  . Conversely , ROCK1 KD hiPSCs displayed round colony shapes  but individual cells along the border of ROCK1 KD colonies extended protrusions out away from the colony  . As expected , hiPSCs treated with the small-molecule ROCK inhibitor Y-27632 yielded a similar morphology to the ROCK1 KD hiPSCs with extended cell protrusions at the colony borders  . To further confirm the physical effects of knocking down CDH1 or ROCK1 selectively in hiPSCs , we performed immunofluorescent  staining of CDH1 expression . After 5 days of DOX treatment , CDH1 KD hiPSCs exhibited a complete loss of CDH1 expression , as expected , whereas the ROCK1 KD hiPSCs and the control hiPSCs  maintained robust expression of CDH1 along the plasma membrane  . Contact angles were not statistically different in either the ROCK1 KD or CDH1 KD cells compared to the control , but all populations displayed a subtle reduction in mean contact angle with DOX addition that was not significantly different between any of the groups  . However , when direct measurements of hiPSC elasticity were taken using atomic force microscopy after 6 days of KD , ROCK1 KD cells displayed a twofold higher cortical stiffness than the control and CDH1 KD populations , whereas the latter groups did not differ from one another  . To examine whether mosaic KD of a single molecule impacted hiPSC organization , ROCK1- or CDH1-CRISPRi populations were pretreated with DOX for 5 days and mixed with isogenic wildtype hiPSCs that constitutively expressed GFP  at a 1:3 ratio . Forced aggregation of ROCK1 KD: WT-GFP hiPSCs or CDH1 KD: WT-GFP hiPSCs and subsequent re-plating were used to create individual colonies of randomly mixed ROCK1 KD hiPSCs or CDH1 KD hiPSCs with the WT-GFP cells  . After 5 days in mixed culture , ROCK1 KD cells sorted radially from the WT-GFP cells , clustering primarily at the edges of the colonies  . However , separation of the ROCK1 KD cells did not result in distinct smooth borders between the WT-GFP and ROCK1 KD hiPSC populations . In contrast , CDH1 KD cells robustly separated from the GFP-WT population , forming sharp boundaries between populations irrespective of their spatial location within the colony  . To determine whether pattern emergence was impacted by the relative proportion of mosaic KD within a colony , KD cells were mixed with control CRISPRi hiPSCs lacking any gRNA or fluorescent protein at varying cell ratios of 1:1 , 1:3 , and 3:1 . Clustering of ROCK1 KD cells was less apparent as the proportion of ROCK1 KD cells within a colony increased . In fact , increasing ROCK1 KD hiPSCs to 75% of the colony resulted in the entire colony morphology displaying characteristics of a pure ROCK1 KD colony  . On the other hand , the CDH1 CRISPRi cells separated from the colorless CRISPRi population , irrespective of cell ratio , indicating that the spatial organization occurred regardless of relative population size within a hiPSC colony . The ability of both the ROCK1 and CDH1 CRISPRi KD populations to physically partition from otherwise identical CRISPRi-engineered hiPSCs that lacked a gRNA confirms that the production of dCas9-KRAB is not responsible for the previously observed pattern formation when CRISPRi KD hiPSCs were mixed with the WT-GFP cells , but rather that the segregation is a direct result of KD of the target gene  . Based on the sorting behaviors of ROCK1 KD: WT-GFP and CDH1 KD: WT-GFP colonies when the KD of ROCK1 or CDH1 was present at the time of mixing , we next examined whether induction of mosaic KD after mixing resulted in similar sorting patterns as previously observed . Non-induced CRISPRi populations were mixed with WT-GFP hiPSCs  , re-plated , and then treated with DOX to induce KD  . ROCK1 KD post-mixing within mosaic colonies did not result in noticeable radial segregation of ROCK1 KD hiPSCs from WT-GFP hiPSCs  , as observed for pre-mixed colonies . Instead , the post-mixing ROCK1 mosaic KD colonies exhibited greater vertical stacking of ROCK1 KD cells and WT-GFP cells in the z-plane of the mixed colonies  , whereas the pre-induced mixed colonies remained segregated primarily in a 2D planar manner  . In contrast , the mosaic silencing of CDH1 post-mixing maintained robust segregation of the CDH1 KD cells from the WT-GFP hiPSCs , although the borders between cell populations lacking CDH1 contacts and neighboring WT-GFP cells were somewhat less distinct than the pre-induced CDH1 KD: WT-GFP mixed colonies . Overall , the inducible CRISPRi mixed colonies displayed the ability to mimic several different patterns of intrinsic symmetry-breaking events that resulted in distinct cell sorting and multicellular pattern formation . In addition to the changes in organization within colonies , significant changes were observed in the final cell ratios starting from an original seeding density of 3:1 WT to CRISPRi cells . The proportion of CRISPRi cells increased within the mixed colonies over time  . To determine if the accelerated growth was in response to mixing with a WT population , EdU incorporation was analyzed in pure CRISPRi and WT populations . Over 5 days of mixed culture , the WT-GFP cells displayed approximately 50% reduced DNA synthesis compared to the CRISPRi lines independent of DOX treatment  , however cell replication rate did not account for pattern formation as the CRISPRi control mixed colonies did not display evidence of any patterns . Colony morphology and expression of epithelial markers , such as epithelial cell adhesion molecule  , were examined to determine if the cells that lost CDH1 expression segregated from their WT-GFP neighbors due to delamination , or loss of the epithelial phenotype characteristic of hiPSCs . ROCK1 KD: WT-GFP and CDH1 KD: WT-GFP colonies maintained an epithelial morphology throughout 6 days of CRISPRi silencing  with no observed migration by CRISPRi-modulated cells away from the colonies . Both ROCK1 KD and CDH1 KD hiPSCs within mixed colonies expressed EpCAM at cell-cell boundaries after 6 days of CRISPRi induction despite changes in cortical tension or intercellular adhesion due to loss of ROCK1 or CDH1 , respectively  . Furthermore , ROCK1/CDH1 KD hiPSCs displayed cell junction-localized β-catenin in pure colonies after 6 days of CRISPRi induction , suggesting maintenance of adherens junctions and epithelial colonies  . Both proteins maintained strong nuclear expression in pure ROCK1 KD or CDH1 KD colonies after 6 days of KD induction  . Moreover , despite the physical segregation of cells induced by KD in mixed populations , no pattern could be observed based on pluripotency marker expression  . Furthermore , the abundance of OCT3/4 and SOX2 transcripts was unchanged in pure colonies of CDH1 KD cells and not significantly different , though variable , in pure colonies of ROCK1 KD hiPSCs  . However because the transcription factors SOX2 and OCT4 are retained by cells for a period of time during the process of differentiation , genes associated with the primitive streak  and the neural crest  were interrogated in either ROCK1 or CDH1 KD cells over 6 days  . Both BRA and SOX9 were significantly increased on day three of KD in ROCK1 KD cells , however at day six the gene expression returned to levels comparable to day zero before ROCK1 KD . Although the CDH1 KD cells did not display any significant trends , the standard deviation of gene expression varied as much as three times greater than that of the ROCK1 KD cells . However , these results indicate that the loss of ROCK1 or CDH1 is not sufficient to disrupt the pluripotent gene regulatory network and induce an immediate exit from the pluripotent state . Since pluripotency markers were maintained irrespective of mosaic patterning , gene expression changes in pluripotency markers  , mesendoderm markers  and ectoderm markers  were examined during the course of mosaic patterning at days 1 , 3 and 6 after KD induction  . BRA did not change significantly with induction of ROCK1 KD or CDH1 KD in a mixed population , however SOX9 increased on day six of KD in both ROCK1 KD and CDH1 KD cells  . To assess whether gene expression changes were unique to the induction of symmetry breaking events in mixed populations or simply a result of gene KD , a curated set of genes involved in pluripotent stem cell signaling , early lineage fate transitions , and regulation of physical cell properties  was examined in both pure KD populations and mixed KD populations . An ANOVA analysis was used to examine gene expression changes that could be attributed to mixing two different cell types  , to KD of ROCK1 or CDH1 in a pure population , and to mosaic KD or KD in the presence of a WT neighbor  . Overall , few changes in gene expression resulted from mixing un-induced CRISPRi populations with WT-GFP  , and therefore all subsequent data were normalized to pure un-induced populations and then to mixed un-induced populations to minimize false positives that resulted from mixing of cell lines without induction of KD . In ROCK1 KD cells mixed with WT , the gene expression changes on day one that could be attributed solely to gene KD  were associated with primitive streak formation ( Snail  , SMAD1 ) . Interestingly , a large number of changes in gene expression were specific to the mosaic induction of ROCK1 KD  , for example the down-regulation of both cell-cell adhesions as well as cell-ECM adhesions . Additionally , genes that were upregulated in the pure KD context were down-regulated in the mosaic KD context , such as SNAI1 , NES and NANOG . However , at day six of mosaic KD no significant changes persisted in the examined panel of genes  . CDH1 KD caused an upregulation in genes associated with cell-cell adhesion on day one that was exacerbated in a mosaic CDH1 KD  . Similar to the transient wave of gene expression changes observed in ROCK1 KD cells , mosaic CDH1 KD did not exhibit any observed significant changes on day six of KD except for CDH1  . These results were consistent with our previous observation of the maintenance of pluripotency in the ROCK1 KD: WT-GFP and CDH1 KD: WT-GFP colonies  . In addition to examining the KD cells , we examined the gene expression profiles of the neighboring WT cells that constituted the majority of cells in each colony . On day six of KD induction , the WT-GFP cells that were mixed with CDH1 KD hiPSCs had gene expression patterns that resembled the WT-GFP cells mixed with the control CRISPRi populations , whereas the WT-GFP cells mixed with ROCK1 KD hiPSCs exhibited a different expression profile . Interestingly , the WT-GFP cells mixed with ROCK1 CRISPRi hiPSCs demonstrated changes in genes associated with cell sorting and movement , such as ephrins and integrins , and up-regulation in myosin proteins   . The proportion of PAX6 +cells , indicating neuro-ectoderm lineage , or eomesodermin  +cells , indicating a mesendoderm lineage , in the WT and CRISPRi mixed populations were examined . Although the ROCK1 KD population did not display a significant difference in PAX6 +or EOMES +cells relative to the WT cells  , the CDH1 KD population yielded fewer PAX6 +cells with the ectoderm directed differentiation and increased EOMES +cells in the mesendoderm-directed differentiation  . In this study we examined the effect of inducing specific genetic KD in subpopulations of hiPSCs within an otherwise homogeneous population of pluripotent cells . Here , we report that silencing of target genes by CRISPRi within only subpopulations of cells provides multiple avenues to genetically control the emergence of asymmetric cell phenotypes and development of multicellular patterns . Specifically , we demonstrate that mosaic KD of target genes ROCK1 or CDH1 result in distinct patterning events wherein cell-driven segregation dictates colony organization without loss of pluripotency  . However , we found that prolonged silencing of ROCK1 in hiPSCs  resulted in cells that were twofold stiffer than either the CDH1 KD cells or the control CRISPRi cells . The increased cortical stiffness of ROCK1 KD hiPSCs could be due to the difference between the inhibition of an existing protein and KD of the gene . Additionally , ROCK inhibition is often used as a transient perturbation  , whereas long-term KD of ROCK1  may induce compensatory effects within the cells that are responsible for the somewhat surprising results . Long-term ROCK1 KD compensation is a likely partial explanation why KD of ROCK1 prior to mixing resulted in radially partitioned populations , but post-mixing KD resulted in less segregated populations . The increased stacking of the ROCK1 KD population upon induction of knockdown after mixing with WT cells could also reflect the difference between short-term and long-term ROCK1 KD and potential compensation effects . For example , the 3D accumulation of ROCK1 KD cells as cytoskeletal contraction is impaired may be a result from compensatory contraction by the surrounding WT cells , resulting in multilayer colonies . The emergence of autonomous cell patterning and cell sorting is often coincident with the onset of differentiation , and CDH1 in particular regulates morphogenesis in a diverse range of species  . Historically , CDH1 is often associated with pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem cells  . However , while CDH1 is commonly expressed by pluripotent cells and CDH1 can replace OCT3/4 during fibroblast reprogramming to pluripotency  , CDH1 is not essential to pluripotency  . Our results reinforce these latter observations by demonstrating that CDH1 KD in hiPSCs does not adversely affect the expression of pluripotency markers nor lead to a loss of epithelial phenotype . The maintenance of pluripotent state indicates that KD of CDH1 alone is not sufficient to induce differentiation , but other factors such as sufficient cell density and local intercellular signaling preserve pluripotent colony integrity and buffer against changes in cell state . Changes in CDH1 influencing lineage fate decisions may explain the transient gene expression changes that we observed with the induction of KD in mixed colonies , where the loss of CDH1 potentially primes the cells to respond to a signal for differentiation , and without such a signal the cells return to a ground state of pluripotency . Similar priming has been described in the context of cell-matrix adhesion where differentiation in response to TGFβ signaling is primed by stiffness-dependent integrin signaling  ; a similar mechanism may explain the observed transient gene expression changes without loss of pluripotency in CDH1 KD hiPSCs . The observed mosaic patterns of ROCK1 KD hiPSCs demonstrate that the spatial location within a colony can be affected by targeted gene KD without altering differentiation potential , and conversely , the mosaic CDH1 KD demonstrates dual control of spatial positioning and lineage potential . In addition to changes in multicellular organization as a result of ROCK1 or CDH1 KD , changes in gene expression also occurred in the WT population . For example , GATA4 was down-regulated in WT cells in all mixed colonies . However , there were no significant differences in EOMES expression between the WT and CRISPRi cells when ROCK1 KD mixed colonies were directed toward a mesendodermal fate  , potentially due to the strength of the small molecule CHIR , a GSK3 inhibitor , in inducing mesendoderm fate . Additionally , differences between the WT and ROCK1 KD populations may arise in longer differentiations , where the cells are allowed to mature beyond a progenitor stage . Moreover , CRISPRi additionally offers the flexibility to target any gene of interest and timing of KD  , allowing for the creation of dynamic patterns through transient genetic KD that could be used to pre-pattern PSC colonies in various types of multicellular geometries before differentiation . In addition , mosaic induction of KD can be used to examine how signals propagate between cells , for example , interrogating how the networks between cells created by either mechanical  or chemical gradients  affect lineage fate decisions . Accutase  was used to dissociate hiPSCs to single cells during passaging . The generation of the ROCK1 CRISPRi line was previously created and described by Mandegar et al . For the generation of the CDH1 CRISPRi lines , five CRISPRi gRNAs were designed to bind within 150 bp of the TSS of CDH1 and cloned into the gRNA-CKB vector using BsmBI ligation following the previously described protocol   . Once stable polyclonal populations of CDH1 CRISPRi hiPSCs for each of the five guides were established , the cells were incubated with doxycycline  for 96 hr . The CRISPRi CDH1 cell line with the guide producing the best KD was selected  . Fixed colonies were permeabilized with 0 . Pure populations of WT , CRISPRi KCNH2  , CRISPRi ROCK1 , and CRISPRi CDH1 were treated with DOX  for 5 consecutive days . A BD FACSAria II cell sorter  was used to isolate pure populations of WT-GFP and CRISPRi hiPSCs by first identifying the live cells via the LIVE/DEAD  stain and subsequently sorting the mCherry  GFP  populations from the mCherry  GFP  populations directly into TRIzol LS Reagent  . For the differentiation analysis , fluorescent images were split into single RGB channels where the red channel denoted CRISPRi cells  , the green channel denoted WT cells  , and the blue channel denoted either PAX6 or EOMES positive cells . The EOMES or PAX6 +population was calculated by taking the logical AND of either the WT and EOMES/PAX6 +mask or the CRISPRi and the EOMES/PAX6 +masks and then normalizing to the total area of the WT or CRISPRi mask , respectively . The ratio of EOMES/PAX6 +cells in CRISPRi cell compared to WT was calculated by dividing the normalized EOMES/PAX6 +area of the CRISPRi mask by the normalized EOMES/PAX6 +area of the WT mask . 
Encoding precision in visual working memory decreases with the number of encoded items . Here , we propose a normative theory for such set size effects: the brain minimizes a weighted sum of an error-based behavioral cost and a neural encoding cost . We construct a model from this theory and find that it predicts set size effects . The model accounts well for effects of both set size and probing probability on encoding precision in nine delayed-estimation experiments . Moreover , we find support for the prediction that the total amount of invested resource can vary non-monotonically with set size . Finally , we show that it is sometimes optimal to encode only a subset or even none of the relevant items in a task . In this task , the observer briefly holds a set of items in memory and then reports their estimate of a randomly probed target item  . Set size effects manifest as a widening of the estimation error distribution as the number of items is increased  , which suggests a decrease in the amount of resource per item  . To apply our model to this task , we express the expected local behavioral cost as an expected value of the behavioral cost with respect to the error distribution ,  c¯behavioral , i  =∫cbehavioral , i  p  dε , where the behavioral cost function cbehavioral , i  maps an encoding error ε to a cost and p  is the predicted distribution of ε for an item encoded with resource J¯i . The distribution of ε for a stimulus encoded with resource J¯i is found by integrating over J , p  =∫VM  Gamma  dJ Finally , we specify the behavioral cost function cbehavioral , i  in Equation 12 , which maps an estimation error ε to a behavioral cost . To obtain an intuition for the predictions of this model , we plot in Figure 2D for a specific set of parameters the two expected costs per item and their sum , Equation 11 , as a function of J¯ . The expected behavioral cost per item depends on pi and decreases with J¯  , while the expected neural cost per item is independent of pi and increases  . The expected total cost per item has a unique minimum  . Hence , in this example , the optimal amount of resource per item is an increasing function of its probing probability . We next consider the special case in which each item is equally likely to be probed , that is , pi = 1/N . The values of pi in Figure 2D then correspond to set sizes 1 , 2 , 4 , and 8 . An alternative way to understand this predicted set size effect is by considering how the three expected costs across all items , Equation 3 , depend on J¯ . Substituting pi = 1/N in Equation 9 , we find that the expected behavioral cost across all items is independent of set size  . Moreover , when all items are encoded with the same amount of resource  , the expected neural cost across all items equals NJ¯ and therefore scales linearly with set size  . The model thus predicts set size effects in delayed-estimation tasks that are fully mediated by individual-item probing probability . Based on this , they hypothesized that set size effects are mediated by probing probability . We next compare the goodness of fit of the resource-rational model to that of a descriptive variant in which the amount of resource per item , J¯ , is assumed to be a power-law function of set size  . Model comparison based on the Akaike Information Criterion   indicates that the data provide similar support for both models , with a small advantage for the resource-rational model  . Hence , the resource-rational model provides a principled explanation of set size effects without sacrificing quality of fit compared to one of the best available descriptive models of VWM . We find that the resource-rational model also fits better than a model in which the total amount of resource is fixed and divided equally across items  . So far , we have assumed that there is random variability in the actual amount of resource assigned to an item . Next , we test an equal-precision variant of the resource-rational model , by fixing parameter τ to a very small value  . Consistent with the results obtained with the variable-precision model , we find that the rational model has a substantial AIC advantage over a fixed-resource model  and is on equal footing with the power-law model  . We do this by fitting a non-parametric model variant in which resource J¯ is a free parameter at each set size , while keeping all other aspects of the model the same . An examination of the fitted parameter values corroborates this finding: the estimated resource values in the non-parametric model closely match the optimal values in the rational model  . So far , we have assumed that behavioral cost is a power-law function of the absolute estimation error , cbehavioral  =|ε|β . Model comparison favors the original model with AIC differences of 14 . One quantitative feature that sets the resource-rational theory apart from previous theories is its predicted relation between set size and the total amount of invested resource , J¯total=∑i=1N J¯i . This quantity is by definition constant in fixed-resource models , and in power-law models it varies monotonically with set size . These tests reveal strong evidence that the total amount of resource is higher at set size 3 than at set sizes 1  and 6  . Altogether , these findings suggest that the total amount of resource that subjects spend on item encoding varies non-monotonically with set size , which is consistent with predictions from the resource-rational model , but not with any of the previously proposed models . To the best of our knowledge , evidence for a possible non-monotonicity in the relation between set size and total encoding resource has not been reported before . As we noted before , the model predictions do not explicitly depend on set size , N . Yet , we found that the model accounts well for set size effects in the experiments that we considered so far  . This happens because in all those experiments , N was directly coupled with probing probability pi , through pi = 1/N . Given that the amount of resource per item in E1-E6 decreases with N , a first prediction is that it should increase as a function of pi in E7-E9 . To test the predictions presented in the previous section and , more generally , to evaluate how well our model accounts for effects of pi on encoding precision , we fit it to data from three experiments in which probing probability was varied independently of set size  . In the first of these experiments  , seven subjects performed a delayed-estimation task at set sizes 2 , 4 , and 8 . On each trial , one of the items – indicated with a cue – was three times more likely to be probed than any of the other items . Hence , the probing probabilities for the cued and uncued items were 3/4 and 1/4 at N = 2 , respectively , 1/2 and 1/6 at N = 4 , and 3/10 and 1/10 at N = 8 . The subject data show a clear effect of pi: the higher the probing probability of an item , the more precise the subject responses  . We find that the resource-rational model , Equation  , accounts well for this effect  and does so by increasing the amount of resource as a function of probing probability pi  . In the other two experiments  , the number of cued items and cue validity were varied between conditions , while set size was kept constant at 4 or 6 . For example , in one of the conditions of E8 , three of the four items were cued with 100% validity , such that pi was 1/3 for each cued item and 0 for the uncued item; in another condition of the same experiment , two of the four items were cued with 66 . 7% validity , meaning that pi was 1/3 for each cued item and 1/6 for each uncued item . As in E7 , responses become more precise with increasing pi and the model accounts well for this  , again by increasing the amount of resource assigned to an item with pi  . In contrast to our model , both Bays  and Emrich et al . proposed that the total amount of invested resource is fixed . However , while Bays proposed that the distribution of this resource is in accordance with minimization of a behavioral cost function  , Emrich et al . postulated that the resource is distributed in proportion to each item’s probing probability . Hence , while our model optimizes both the amount of invested resource and its distribution , Bays’ model only optimizes the distribution , and Emrich et al . Hence , in this variant , the neural cost function is removed and parameter λ is replaced by a parameter J¯total – otherwise , all aspects of the model are the same as in our main model . ’s proposal , we compute J¯i for each item as piJ¯total , where pi is the probing probability and J¯total is again a free parameter that represents the total amount of resource . Hence , the model comparison suggests quite convincingly that subjects distribute their resource near-optimally across items with unequal probing probabilities , but it is inconclusive regarding the question of whether the total amount of invested resource is fixed or optimized . As an alternative way to address the question of whether the total amount of resource is fixed , we again fit a non-parametric model to obtain “empirical” estimates of the total amount of invested resource . To this end , we define J¯^total=J¯^i/pi , where J¯^i are the best-fitting values in a non-parametric model , such that J¯^total represents the estimated total amount of resource that a subject would invest to encode a display filled with items that all have probing probability pi . We find that these estimates show signs of a non-monotonicity as a function of pi  , which are captured reasonably well by the resource-rational model  . Hence , while the model comparison results in the previous paragraph were inconclusive regarding the question of whether the total amount of invested resource is fixed or optimized , the present analysis provides evidence against fixed-resource models and confirms a prediction made by our own model . Regardless of whether total resource is fixed or optimized , this finding provides further support for the suggestion that set size effects are mediated by probing probability  or , more generally , by item relevance  . There is an ongoing debate about the question of whether a task-relevant item is sometimes completely left out of working memory  . In resource models , the possibility of complete forgetting has so far been an added ingredient separate from the core of the model  . Our normative theory allows for a reinterpretation of this question: are there situations in which it is optimal to assign zero resource to the encoding of an item ? We already established that this could happen in delayed-estimation tasks: whenever the probing probability is lower than a threshold value p0=λ| c¯behavioral  | , the optimal amount of resource to invest on encoding the item is zero  . Considering the expected behavioral cost function of a fixed-precision model  , we can prove that p0 = 0 , that is , it is never optimal to invest no resource  . For the expected behavioral cost function of the variable-precision model , however , simulations indicate that p0 can be greater than 0  . Moreover , we find that for 8 of the 47 subjects , p0 is larger than the lowest probing probability in the experiment , which suggests that these subjects sometimes entirely ignored one or more of the items . These results suggest that there might be a principled reason why people sometimes leave task-relevant items out of visual working memory in delayed-estimation experiments . In particular , when probing probabilities are equal for all items , the model makes an "all or none" prediction: all items are encoded when pi>p0 and none are encoded otherwise . Hence , the model cannot explain why subjects in tasks with equal probing probabilities sometimes seem to encode a subset of task-relevant items . For example , a recent study reported that in a whole-report delayed-estimation experiment  , subjects encoded about half of the six presented items on each trial  . The results so far show that the resource-rational model accounts well for data in a variety of delayed-estimation experiments . In this task , the observer is sequentially presented with two sets of items and reports if any one of them changed  . In the variant that we consider here , a change is present on exactly half of the trials and is equally likely to occur in any of the items . We construct a model for this task by combining Equations 3 , 4 , and 8 with an expected behavioral cost function based on the Bayesian decision rule for this task  , which yields  J¯optimal=argminJ¯  , where p  is the expected behavioral cost function , which in this case specifies the probability of an error response when a set of items is encoded with resource J¯ . In contrast to local tasks , the expected total cost in global tasks cannot be written as a sum of expected costs per item , because the expected behavioral cost – such as p  in Equation  – can only be computed globally , not per item . Consequently , the elements of J¯optimal in global tasks cannot be computed separately for each item . The results  show that the cost-minimizing strategy is to encode neither of the items when the amount of reward per correct trial is very low  and encode them both when reward is high  . However , interestingly , there is also an intermediate regime in which the optimal strategy is to encode one of the two items , but not the other one  . Hence , just as in the delayed-estimation task , there are conditions in which it is optimal to encode only a subset of items . An important difference , however , is that in the delayed-estimation task this only happens when items have unequal probing probabilities , while in this change detection task it even happens when all items are equally likely to change . However , the results at N = 2 suggest that if two items are encoded , the optimal solution is to encode them with the same amount of resource  . Therefore , we conjecture that all non-zero values in J¯optimal are identical , which would mean that the entire vector can be summarized by two values: the number of encoded items , which we denote by Koptimal , and the amount of resource assigned to each encoded item , which we denote by J¯optimal . Here , we examined a normative proposal in which expected task performance is traded off against the cost of spending neural resource on encoding . We used this principle to construct a resource-rational model for "local" VWM tasks and found that set size effects in this model are fully mediated by the probing probabilities of the individual items; this is consistent with suggestions from earlier empirical work  . From the perspective of our model , the interpretation is that as more items are added to a task , the relevance of each individual item decreases , which makes it less cost-efficient to spend resource on its encoding . We also found that in this model it is sometimes optimal to encode only a subset of task-relevant items , which implies that resource rationality could serve as a principled bridge between resource and slot-based models of VWM . We tested the model on data from nine previous delayed-estimation experiments and found that it accounts well for effects of both set size and probing probability , despite having relatively few parameters . Moreover , it accounts for a non-monotonicity that appears to exist between set size and the total amount of resource that subjects invest in item encoding . First , we have assumed that the expected behavioral cost decreases indefinitely with the amount of invested resource , such that in the limit of infinite resource there is no encoding error and no behavioral cost . In this variant , J¯input represents the quality of the input and J¯optimal will never exceed this value , because any additional resource would increase the expected neural cost without decreasing the expected behavioral cost . Moreover , our theory assumes that there is no upper limit on the total amount of resource available for encoding: cost is the only factor that matters . Similarly , our theory assumes that there is no lower limit on the amount of resource available for encoding . This would mean that there is a lower limit to the amount of resource spent on encoding . We have fitted our model only to data from delayed-estimation experiments . Further work is needed to examine how well the model accounts for empirical data of such tasks . A final limitation is that our theory assumes that items are uniformly distributed and uncorrelated . Moreover , recent work has suggested that even when items are uncorrelated and uniformly distributed , the expected estimation error can sometimes be reduced by using a "chunking" strategy , that is , encoding similar items as one  . assumed a fixed total resource and did not take neural encoding cost into account in their optimization , it remains to be seen whether chunking is also optimal in the kind of model that we proposed . We speculate that this is likely to be the case , because encoding multiple items as one will reduce the expected neural cost  , while the increase in expected behavioral cost will be negligible if the items are very similar . Hence , it seems worthwhile to examine models that combine resource rationality with chunking . Throughout the paper , we have assumed that there is variability in resource assignment . In the present study , we have focused on effects of set size and probing probability on encoding precision . However , our theory also makes predictions about effects of incentive manipulations on encoding precision , because such manipulations affect the expected behavioral cost function . At first , this may seem to be at odds with the predictions of our model , as one may expect that it should assign more resource to items in the high-precision condition . Another method to manipulate incentives is to vary the amount of potential reward across items within a display . They found a positive relation between the amount of reward associated with an item and response accuracy , which indicates that subjects spent more resource on encoding items with larger potential reward . This incentive manipulation can be implemented by multiplying the behavioral cost function with an item-dependent factor ui , which modifies Equation  to J¯optimal , i  =argminJ¯ ( uipic¯behavioral  +λJ¯ ) . would be a N = 2 task in which one of the items always has a low positive feedback threshold and the other a high one . would be to scale the behavioral cost function of items with a factor that varies across trials or blocks , but is constant within a trial . Consistent with the predictions of this theory , empirical work has found that the neural activity associated with the encoding of an item decreases with set size , as observed in for example the lateral intraparietal cortex  and superior colliculus  . Moreover , the work by Bays  has shown that a modified version of divisive normalization can account for the near-optimal distribution of resources across items with unequal probing probabilities . As set size effects in our model are mediated by probing probability , its predicted set size effects can probably be accounted for by a similar mechanism . In all experimental data that we considered here , the only factors that changed from trial to trial were set size  and probing probability  . When we fitted the model , we assumed that the expected total cost in these experiments was minimized on a trial-by-trial basis: whenever set size or probing probability changed from one trial to the next , the computation of Joptimal followed this change . However , can the same mechanism also accommodate changes in the optimal resource policy changes driven by other factors , such as the behavioral cost function , cbehavioral  ? The total amount of resource that subjects spend on item encoding may vary non-monotonically with set size in our model . used single-neuron recording to estimate neural activity per item for set sizes 2 , 4 , and 6 in a visual search task  . First , similar to early models of visual working memory limitations , they postulate a fixed total amount of resources  , which is a constraint rather than a cost . We used a Bayesian optimization method  to find the parameter vector θ= that maximizes the log likelihood function , ∑i=1n logp  , where n is the number of trials in the subject’s data set , εi the estimation error on the ith trial , and pi the probing probability of the probed item on that trial . 
Here , we show that PexRD54 , an effector from the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans , binds host autophagy protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation . PexRD54 depletes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes and interferes with Joka2's positive effect on pathogen defense . Autophagy is executed through coordinated action of more than 30 core proteins known as the ATG  proteins  . Selective autophagy is regulated through specific interactions of autophagy cargo receptors and ATG8 proteins  . Autophagy cargo receptors carry a short sequence motif called ATG8-interaction motif  that binds lipidated ATG8 proteins anchored on autophagosomal membranes . For instance , mammalian autophagy cargo receptors NDP52 and optineurin can recognize intracellular pathogenic bacteria and mediate their autophagic removal by sorting the captured bacteria inside the ATG8-coated autophagosomes  . Here , we show that the RXLR effector PexRD54 has evolved to bind host autophagy protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation . In addition , PexRD54 depletes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes to counteract host defenses against P . infestans . infestans effector PexRD54 associates with ATG8CL , a member of the ATG8 family  . The association between PexRD54 and ATG8CL was retained under stringent binding conditions in contrast to other candidate interactors  . We validated the association with reverse coimmunoprecipitation after co-expressing the potato ATG8CL protein with the C-terminal effector domain of PexRD54 in planta  . In addition , PexRD54 expressed and purified from Escherichia coli directly bound ATG8CL in vitro with high affinity and in a one to one ratio   . PexRD54 has two predicted ATG8 Interacting Motifs  that match the consensus amino acid sequence W/F/Y-x-x-L/I/V  . In planta coimmunoprecipitations of single and double AIM mutants of PexRD54 revealed that AIM2 , which spans the last four amino acids of the protein  , is required for association with ATG8CL  . PexRD54AIM2 mutant also failed to bind ATG8CL in vitro  . In addition , ATG8CL bound with high affinity to a synthetic peptide  that matches the last 10 C-terminal amino acids of PexRD54   . We conclude that the C-terminal AIM of PexRD54 is necessary and sufficient to bind ATG8CL . PexRD54 binds to ATG8CL via a C-terminal ATG8 interacting motif  . Domain organization of PexRD54 . PexRD54 is a canonical RXLR effector with five WY folds  . Validation of PexRD54-ATG8CL association in planta . RFP:PexRD54 or RFP:EV  were transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:EV in N . benthamiana leaves . Immunoprecipitates  obtained with anti-GFP antiserum and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . PexRD54 binds ATG8CL in vitro . The binding affinity of PexRD54 to ATG8CL was determined using isothermal titration calorimetry  . Upper panel shows heat differences upon injection of ATG8CL into buffer or PexRD54 and the bottom panel show integrated heats of injection  and the best fit  to a single site binding model using MicroCal Origin . ATG8 Interacting Motif 2  mediates ATG8CL binding in planta . RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54AIM1 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 or RFP:PexRD54AIM1&AIM2 were transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:EV in N . benthamiana leaves . IPs obtained with anti-GFP antiserum and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . AIM2 mediates ATG8CL binding in vitro . The binding affinity of PexRD54AIM2 to ATG8CL was determined using ITC . Upper panel shows heat differences upon injection of PexRD54AIM2 and the bottom panel show integrated heats of injection  . No binding was detected between PexRD54AIM2 and ATG8CL . A synthetic peptide composed of the last ten amino acids of PexRD54 is sufficient for binding to ATG8CL . A synthetic peptide  containing the AIM of PexRD54 binds ATG8CL as documented by ITC . A mutant AIM peptide  was used as negative control and did not bind ATG8CL . 004 ATG8 occurs as a family of nine proteins in potato  . PexRD54 bound ATG8CL with ~10 times higher affinity than another ATG8 family member , ATG8IL , in both in planta and in vitro assays  . These findings prompted us to use ATG8IL as a negative control in the subsequent experiments . PexRD54 has higher binding affinity to ATG8CL than ATG8IL . RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:AVRblb2 or RFP:EV were transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8IL or GFP:EV in N . benthamiana leaves and proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs obtained with anti-GFP or anti-RFP antisera and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . RFP:AVRblb2  , an RFP fusion to a different P . infestans RXLR effector , did not associate with ATG8CL or ATG8IL . Both the GFP and RFP IPs indicate higher binding affinity of PexRD54 to ATG8CL than ATG8IL . PexRD54 has lower binding affinity to ATG8IL in vitro . The binding affinity of PexRD54 to ATG8IL was determined using isothermal titration calorimetry  . Upper panel shows heat generated upon injection of ATG8IL into buffer or PexRD54 and lower panel shows integrated heats of injection  and the best fit  to a single site binding model using MicroCal Origin . The data show that PexRD54 binds ATG8CL with ~10 times higher affinity than ATGIL . Amino acid sequence alignment of ATG8 proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana  , Solanum tuberosum  , Solanum lycopersicum  and Nicotiana benthamiana  . Red arrowhead points to ATG8CL and blue arrowhead points to ATG8IL . Phylogenetic analysis of ATG8 proteins . A neighbor-joining tree was generated with ATG8 sequences obtained from genomes of A . benthamiana , using MEGA5 with a 1000 bootstrap value . ATG8CL and ATG8IL are highlighted in pink and the ATG8CL variant that was identified in N . benthamiana is highlighted in green . 007 We then investigated the subcellular localization of PexRD54 within plant cells . N-terminal fusions of PexRD54 to the green fluorescent protein  or red fluorescent protein  labelled the nucleo-cytoplasm and mobile punctate structures  . Immunogold labelling in transmission electron micrographs of cells expressing GFP:PexRD54 revealed a strong signal in electron dense structures that are not peroxisomes  . To determine whether these structures are ATG8CL autophagosomes , we transiently co-expressed RFP:PexRD54 with GFP:ATG8CL in plant cells and observed an overlap between the two fluorescent signals in sharp contrast to RFP:PexRD54AIM2 and RFP:EV negative controls  . This indicates that PexRD54 localizes to ATG8CL-marked autophagosomes and its C-terminal AIM is necessary for autophagosome localization . In contrast , RFP:PexRD54 signal overlapped with GFP:ATG8IL-labelled autophagosomes in only 15–20% of observations consistent with its weaker binding affinity to ATG8IL  . PexRD54 localizes to mobile endomembrane compartments . GFP:PexRD54 was transiently expressed in N . PexRD54 localizes to ATG8CL labelled autophagosomes . Transient co-expression of GFP:ATG8CL with  RFP:PexRD54 ,  RFP:PexRD54AIM2 and  RFP control  in N . benthamiana leaves . Confocal micrographs show single optical sections of RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 and RFP:EV in red , GFP:ATG8CL in green and the overlay indicating colocalization in yellow . White arrowheads point to punctate structures and yellow arrowheads point to puncta where GFP and RFP signals overlap . Far right panels highlight the dotted square region focusing on GFP:ATG8CL labelled puncta in overlaid GFP/RFP channels . The intensity plots represent relative GFP and RFP fluorescence signals along the dotted line connecting points a-b , c-d and e-f that span GFP:ATG8CL marked puncta at far right panels . GFP:ATG8CL fluorescence intensity peak overlapped with fluorescence intensity peak of RFP:PexRD54  but not with RFP:PexRD54AIM2  or RFP:EV  validating the localization of RFP:PexRD54 at GFP:ATG8CL labelled autophagosomes . Bar charts showing colocalization of GFP:ATG8CL puncta with RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 or RFP:EV punctate structures . PexRD54 localizes to vesicle like structures . GFP:PexRD54 or RFP:PexRD54 were transiently expressed in N . Confocal micrographs show single optical sections of GFP:PexRD54  and RFP:PexRD54  . With both tags , PexRD54 localized to vesicular structures pointed with arrowheads . PexRD54 localizes to high electron dense structures . Transmission electron microscopy  imaging of PexRD54 . benthamiana cells transiently expressing GFP:PexRD54 or GFP:EV were collected 3 days post infiltration and probed with anti-GFP antibodies conjugated to gold particles . GFP:PexRD54 labelling were mainly at high electron dense structures , whereas GFP:EV showed cytosolic distribution . Scale bar=200 nm  Bar charts showing electron dense labelling in GFP:EV and GFP:PexRD54 expressing samples  . PexRD54 labelled high electron dense structures that are not peroxisomes . benthamiana leaves transiently expressing GFP:PexRD54 were collected 3 days post infiltration and probed with anti-GFP and anti-catalase antibodies conjugated to gold particles . High electron dense structures labelled with GFP antibody were different than the regions labelled with catalase antibody , confirming that PexRD54 labelled structures are not peroxisomes . PexRD54 labelled puncta rarely include GFP:ATGIL signal . GFP:ATG8IL was transiently co-expressed with RFP:PexRD54 or RFP:EV in N . Maximum intensity projection of confocal micrographs shows that RFP:PexRD54 only partially colocalizes with GFP:ATG8IL . White arrowheads point to vesicles labelled with only GFP:ATG8IL or RFP:PexRD54 , whereas the red-filled arrowheads point to puncta where colocalization occurs . Regions where GFP or RFP labelled puncta do not overlap are indicated with dotted squares . Scale bar=50 μm  Bar charts showing the number of RFP-labelled puncta that colocalized with GFP:ATG8IL puncta . Inhibition of autophagy hinders PexRD54 vesicular distribution . benthamiana leaves transiently expressing GFP:ATG8CL/RFP:PexRD54 , GFP:PexRD54/RFP:ATG8CL or trans-golgi network marker YFP:VTI12 were infiltrated with autophagy inhibitor 3-methyl adenine  at a concentration of 5 mM or water and imaged 6 hr post infiltration . 3-MA prevented formation of punctate structures of PexRD54 and ATG8CL but not of VTI12 . Conservation of terminal glycine residue in ATG8 proteins from various species . Amino acid sequence alignment of ATG8 variants from different species that belong to different kingdoms shows conservation of terminal glycine residue  . Residues that are responsible for interaction with core ATG8 interacting motif  residues are highlighted in purple  and green  . Red and blue arrowheads point to ATG8CL and ATG8IL variants , respectively . ATG8CL terminal glycine deletion mutant prevents formation of PexRD54 labelled puncta in a dominant negative manner . A glycine to alanine mutation in the conserved terminal glycine residue of GFP:ATG8CL does not prevent binding to RFP:PexRD54 . GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:ATG8CLΔ were transiently co-expressed with RFP:PexRD54 or RFP:PexRD54AIM2 in N . benthamiana leaves and total proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs obtained with anti-GFP and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:ATG8CLΔ were transiently co-expressed with RFP:EV or RFP:PexRD54 in N . GFP:ATG8CL showed distinct punctate structures , whereas GFP:ATG8CLΔ was mainly cytosolic with few visible puncta . When RFP:PexRD54 was co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CLΔ , the punctate localization was lost consistent with the recruitment of PexRD54 to ATG8CL labelled autophagosomes . Co-expression of GFP:ATG8ILΔ and RFP:PexRD54 , did not alter punctate localization of RFP:PexRD54 . Arrowheads point to puncta labelled with GFP or RFP fusion constructs . Regions where GFP or RFP labelled puncta do not colocalize are indicated with dotted squares . Scale bar=50 μm  Bar charts confirming punctate distribution of PexRD54 depends on localization at ATG8CL labelled autophagosomes . PexRD54 and ATG8CL colocalize at mobile endomembrane compartments . RFP:PexRD54 was transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL in N . 017 To further confirm that PexRD54-labelled endomembrane compartments are indeed autophagosomes , we investigated the effect of the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyl adenine   on PexRD54 localization . Compared to water , 3-MA treatment reduced the number of PexRD54 and ATG8CL puncta but did not reduce the number of puncta of the trans-Golgi network  marker VTI12   . Phospholipid modification of a conserved glycine residue at the C-terminus of ATG8 proteins is required for autophagosome formation , and deletion of this terminal glycine yields a dominant negative ATG8  . We deployed a terminal glycine deletion mutant of ATG8CL  to determine its effect on subcellular distribution of PexRD54  . As expected , deletion of the terminal glycine did not affect binding of ATG8CL to PexRD54  . However , GFP:ATG8CLΔ led to the depletion of RFP:PexRD54 labelled puncta presumably because the dominant negative effect of ATG8CLΔ prevented accumulation of RFP:PexRD54 in ATG8CL-labelled autophagosomes  . In contrast , GFP:ATG8ILΔ , a terminal glycine deletion mutant of ATG8IL , had no effect on the punctate localization of RFP:PexRD54  . These experiments independently support the finding that PexRD54 accumulates in ATG8CL autophagosomes . Increase in ATG8 labelled puncta is widely used as a functional readout of autophagic activity  . In samples expressing PexRD54 , we noticed a ~fivefold increase in the number of ATG8CL marked autophagosomes compared to control samples expressing PexRD54AIM2 or empty vector control  . In contrast , PexRD54 did not alter the number of ATG8IL autophagosomes consistent with the weak binding noted between these two proteins  . This indicates that PexRD54 stimulates the formation of ATG8CL autophagosomes . PexRD54 increases the number of ATG8CL autophagosomes . Co-expression of RFP:PexRD54 , but not RFP:PexRD54AIM2 or RFP:EV significantly enhanced the number of GFP:ATG8CL-labelled autophagosomes in N . benthamiana . Bar charts display the number of GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:ATG8IL-labelled autophagosomes in the presence of RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 or RFP:EV . GFP:ATG8CL autophagosomes were significantly enhanced by the expression of RFP:PexRD54  . GFP:ATG8IL autophagosomes were not significantly enhanced by expression of RFP:PexRD54  . GFP:ATG8CL was transiently co-expressed with RFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 or RFP:EV in N . Maximum projections of images show that RFP:PexRD54 increases the number of GFP:ATG8CL- labelled autophagosomes . RFP:PexRD54AIM2 and RFP:EV were used as controls . Regions where GFP or RFP-labelled puncta do not overlap are indicated with dotted squares . Zoomed single plane images shown in the second panel indicate that larger puncta co-labelled by RFP:PexRD54 and GFP:ATG8CL are ring-shaped autophagosome clusters . RFP:PexRD54 and GFP:ATG8CL colocalize at mobile ring shaped clusters . RFP:PexRD54 was transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL in N . benthamiana leaves and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy , 3 days post infiltration . 019 Next , we set out to determine the effect of PexRD54 on autophagic flux . Treatment of RFP:ATG8CL expressing leaves with the specific vacuolar ATPase inhibitor concanamycin-A  increased the number of ATG8CL-labelled puncta both in the presence of PexRD54 or controls  indicating that PexRD54 does not block autophagic flux  . PexRD54 , but neither PexRD54AIM2 or vector control , increased the levels of GFP:ATG8CL protein 3 days after co-expression in planta  . Treatment of three-day samples with E64d , an inhibitor of vacuolar cysteine proteases  , further increased protein levels of GFP:ATG8CL . This further confirms that PexRD54 stimulates autophagy rather than blocking autophagic flux  . PexRD54 did not alter the accumulation of GFP:ATG8IL or control GFP protein , confirming that PexRD54 increases ATG8CL protein accumulation specifically  . Consistent with these observations , we noted an increase in GFP:ATG8CL levels , but not in control GFP , during P . PexRD54 does not block autophagic flux . ConcanamycinA treatment increases the number of autophagosomes in PexRD54 expressing samples . RFP:ATG8CL was transienly coexpressed with PexRD54 , PexRD54AIM2 and empty vector controls in N . benthamiana . ConA treatment significantly increased the number of autophagosomes in PexRD54 expressing cells  , confirming PexRD54 does not block autophagic flux . E64D treatment increases ATG8CL protein levels in PexRD54 expressing samples . GFP:ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8IL and GFP:EV were transiently coexpressed with RFP:GUS , RFP:PexRD54 or RFP:PexRD54AIM2 in N . RFP:PexRD54 increased protein levels of GFP:ATG8CL but not GFP:ATG8IL consistent with stronger binding affinity of PexRD54 to ATG8CL . RFP:PexRD54 did not increase protein levels of GFP:EV , suggesting that protein level increase depends on ATG8CL binding and that PexRD54 does not increase protein levels in general . In RFP:PexRD54 coexpressed 3 dpi samples , E64d treatment increased ATG8CL protein levels even more suggesting PexRD54 does not block autophagic flux . GFP:ATG8CL protein levels increase in N . benthamiana during P . infestans infection . benthamiana leaves transiently expressing GFP:ATG8CL or GFP:EV were sprayed with P . Protein levels of GFP:ATG8CL or GFP were determined 2 and 3 days after infection . 021 The presence of a functional AIM in PexRD54 prompted us to hypothesize that this effector perturbs the autophagy cargo receptors of its host plants . Recently , Joka2 was reported as a selective autophagy cargo receptor of Solanaceous plants that also binds ATG8 via an AIM   . Indeed , in planta coimmunoprecipitation assays confirmed that potato Joka2 , but not the AIM mutant , Joka2AIM , associated with ATG8CL  . Joka2 association with ATG8CL was somewhat specific given that this cargo receptor failed to coimmunoprecipitate with ATG8IL  . Joka2 , but not Joka2AIM , also markedly increased the number of GFP:ATG8CL autophagosomes  , and enhanced ATG8CL protein levels  . This indicates that Joka2 also activates ATG8CL-mediated selective autophagy . PexRD54 is a competitive antagonist of the plant selective autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 . Domain organization of Joka2 . PexRD54 reduces binding of Joka2 to ATG8CL in a dose-dependent manner . GFP:ATG8CL  and Joka2:RFP  were transiently co-expressed with varying Agrobacterium concentrations  carrying HA:PexRD54 construct in N . benthamiana  . Joka2:RFP is depleted in GFP:ATG8CL pulldowns as the expression of HA:PexRD54 increased . Immunoprecipitates  obtained with anti-GFP antiserum and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . Schematic illustrations of PexRD54 variants  with Joka2 AIM peptides . Replacement of PexRD54 AIM with Joka2 AIM fragments decreases ATG8CL binding affinity . Immunoblots showing binding affinity of PexRD54 , PexRD54AIM2 , PexRD54J2AIM1 or PexRD54J2AIM2 to GFP:ATG8CL . IPs obtained with anti-GFP antiserum and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . Joka2 has a functional ATG8 interacting motif  . Mutation of the predicted AIM in Joka2  to ADPA resulted in loss of ATG8CL binding . GFP:EV and GFP:ATG8CL were co-expressed with Joka2:RFP and Joka2AIM:RFP in N . benthamiana and proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs were obtained with anti-GFP antiserum and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . Joka2 has higher binding affinity to ATG8CL than ATG8IL . Joka2:RFP was transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8IL or GFP:EV in N . benthamiana and proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs obtained with anti-GFP and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . IP experiments confirmed higher binding affinity of Joka2 to ATG8CL than ATG8IL . Joka2 increases the number of ATG8CL labelled autophagasomes . Joka2:RFP partially colocalizes with GFP:ATG8CL . Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL were transiently co-expressed in N . benthamiana leaves and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy 3 days post infiltration . Maximum projections of stacks of images indicate that Joka2:RFP colocalizes with GFP:ATG8CL-labelled autophagosomes . Scale bar= 50 μm  Zoomed single plane images of the puncta co-labelled by Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL . Scale bar= 10 μm  Joka2AIM:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL were transiently co-expressed in N . benthamiana leaves and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy 3 days post infiltration . Arrowheads point to puncta co-labelled by Joka2AIM:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL . Scale bar= 50 μm  EV:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL were transiently co-expressed in N . benthamiana leaves and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy 3 days post infiltration . Arrowheads point to puncta labelled by GFP:ATG8CL . Dotted squares highlight the absence of control RFP signal at the GFP:ATG8CL puncta . Scale bar= 50 μm  Bar charts showing colocalization of GFP:ATG8CL with Joka2:RFP , Joka2AIM:RFP or EV:RFP . Joka2AIM:RFP or EV:RFP display significantly low co-localization with GFP:ATG8CL-labelled puncta in contrast to Joka2:RFP . Joka2 increases ATG8CL protein levels . GFP:ATG8CL was transiently co-expressed with RFP:GUS , Joka2:RFP or Joka2AIM:RFP in N . benthamiana leaves and protein levels in total extracts were determined 2 and 3 days after infiltration , using appropriate antisera . At 3 dpi GFP:ATG8CL protein levels were higher in Joka2:RFP expressing samples compared to Joka2AIM:RFP or RFP:GUS expressing samples . PexRD54 outcompetes Joka2 for ATG8CL binding . Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL were transiently co-expressed with HA:EV , HA:PexRD54 and HA:PexRD54AIM2 in N . benthamiana leaves and proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs obtained with anti-GFP and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . In the presence of HA:PexRD54 , Joka2:RFP was depleted from GFP:ATG8CL complexes . PexRD54 AIM has a higher affinity to ATG8CL than Joka2 AIM . GFP:ATG8CL and Joka2:RFP were transiently co-expressed with HA:PexRD54 , HA:PexRD54AIM2 , HA:PexRD54J2AIM1 , HA:PexRD54 J2AIM2 in N . benthamiana and proteins were extracted two days after infiltration and used in immunoprecipitation experiments  . IPs obtained with anti-GFP and total protein extracts were immunoblotted with appropriate antisera . Joka2:RFP levels in GFP:ATG8CL complexes were higher in the presence of HA:PexRD54AIM2 , HA:PexRD54J2AIM1 and HA:PexRD54J2AIM2 compared to HA:PexRD54 expressing samples suggesting PexRD54 variants carrying Joka2 AIM peptides  were less effective in depleting Joka2:RFP from GFP:ATG8CL complexes . RFP:ATG8CL and Joka2:GFP colocalize at mobile endomembrane compartments . RFP:ATG8CL was transiently coexpressed with Joka2:GFP in N . benthamiana leaves and examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy , 3 days post infiltration . 029 Given that both PexRD54 and Joka2 bind ATG8CL via their respective AIMs , we hypothesized that PexRD54 interferes with the Joka2-ATG8CL complex . We tested our hypothesis by performing coimmunoprecipitation experiments between Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL in the presence or absence of PexRD54 . Remarkably , ATG8CL complexes were depleted in Joka2 in the presence of PexRD54 relative to the PexRD54AIM2 and vector control  . Consistently , Joka2 binding to ATG8CL decreased with increasing PexRD54 concentrations  . The distinct AIMs of PexRD54 and Joka2 presumably determine the effect observed in these competition experiments . To further test this , we replaced the functional PexRD54 AIM with two sequences that cover the Joka2 AIM:GVAEWDPI  and GVAEWDPILEELKEMG   . Both PexRD54J2AIM1 and PexRD54J2AIM2 associated with ATG8CL to a lesser extent than wild-type PexRD54  , and were less effective than PexRD54 in depleting Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes  . These findings reveal that PexRD54 antagonizes Joka2 for ATG8CL binding . Finally , we investigated the degree to which activation of Joka2-ATG8CL-mediated autophagy contributes to pathogen defense . Overexpression of Joka2 , but not Joka2AIM , significantly restricted the size of the disease lesions caused by P . infestans  . Conversely , virus-induced gene silencing of Joka2 resulted in increased disease lesions  . This indicates that Joka2-mediated selective autophagy contributes to defense against this pathogen . Remarkably , PexRD54 counteracted the enhanced resistance conferred by Joka2 whereas PexRD54AIM2 failed to reverse this effect  . We conclude that PexRD54 counteracts the positive role of Joka2-mediated selective autophagy in pathogen defense . PexRD54 counteracts the enhanced resistance conferred by Joka2 . Overexpression of Joka2:RFP limits P . infestans colonization . benthamiana leaves expressing RFP:EV , Joka2:RFP and Joka2AIM:RFP were infected with P . PexRD54 counteracts the effect of Joka2 on P . infestans colonization . Joka2:RFP was co-expressed with HA:EV , HA:PexRD54 or HA:PexRD54AIM2 in N . benthamiana leaves which are then inoculated with P . infestans . Joka2:RFP failed to limit pathogen growth in the presence of PexRD54 , whereas it could still restrict pathogen growth in the presence of PexRD54AIM2 or vector control  . Silencing of Joka2 enhances susceptibility to P . infestans . Cartoon showing Joka2 sites targeted for VIGs . TRV:Joka2-1 , TRV:Joka2-2 and TRV:GFP control plants were inoculated with P . RT-PCR confirmed Joka2 silencing . For instance , to counteract antimicrobial autophagy , intracellular bacterial pathogen Legionella pneumophila secretes a type IV effector protein RavZ that impedes autophagy by uncoupling ATG8-lipid linkage  . In this study , we show that a plant pathogen effector has evolved an ATG8 interacting motif to bind with high affinity to the autophagy protein ATG8CL and stimulate the formation of ATG8CL-marked autophagosomes . Unlike the Legionella effector RavZ , PexRD54 activates selective autophagy possibly to eliminate defense-related compounds or to reattribute cellular resources by promoting nutrient recycling . PexRD54 outcompetes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 and enhances virulence . 032 Additionally , we show that the effector competes with the host cargo receptor Joka2 and depletes it out of ATG8CL autophagosomes to promote disease susceptibility . Joka2 could contribute to immunity by inducing autophagic removal of plant or pathogen molecules that negatively affect host defenses . It will be interesting in the future to determine the identity of potential defense-related cargo carried by Joka2  . Characterization of additional host cargo receptors and interactome analysis of particular ATG8 proteins should improve our understanding of how selective autophagy operates in response to a variety of stress conditions including immunity . In the potato genome , we identified nine ATG8 genes . Both Joka2 and the effector showed higher affinity to ATG8CL compared to ATG8IL  . This indicates that variation between plant ATG8 proteins may contribute to the selective nature of autophagy . It will be interesting to determine whether other plant pathogens also secrete effectors that evolved an ATG8 interacting motif or target autophagy in other ways . ATG8 interacting motif  , also known as LC3 interacting region  , mediates interaction of cargo receptors or adaptors with ATG8 proteins anchored in autophagosome membranes  . Initially , we identified two AIM candidates in PexRD54 , AIM1 and AIM2 based on the manual search of the consensus sequence mentioned earlier . This software assigned AIM1 with an iLIR score of 12  and AIM2 with an iLIR score of 23  . To determine the ATG8 variant  specifically targeted by PexRD54 among various host ATG8 family members , we performed a BLASTP search  against solanaceous plant proteomes including Solanum tuberosum  , Solanum lycopersicum  and Nicotiana benthamiana using Arabidopsis thaliana ATG8C as the query protein sequence . We found nine ATG8 members in S . benthamiana . thaliana ATG8 sequences . benthamiana  . Clustal X program was used for multiple sequence alignment of ATG8 variants . The phylogenetic tree of ATG8 homologs in plants was constructed with the neighbor-joining method using ATG8-like curated proteins from S . ATG8CL variants in N . PexRD54 and Joka2 were amplified using polymerase chain reaction  from genomic DNA of Phytophthora infestans isolate T30-4 and Solanum tuberosum cv . The ATG8CL , ATG8CLΔ , ATG8IL , and ATG8ILΔ entry clones were custom synthesized into pUC57-AmpR using the sequences matching S . tuberosum ATG8CL or ATG8IL genes flanked by attL1 and attL2 gateway sites  . The destination constructs GFP:PexRD54 , RFP:PexRD54 , Joka2:RFP , Joka2:GFP , RFP:ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8CLΔ , GFP:ATG8ILΔ , HA:PexRD54 were generated by Gateway LR recombination reaction  of the corresponding entry clone and Gateway destination vectors pH7WGR2  , pK7WGF2  , pB7FWR2  , pB7RWG2  and pK7WGF2  , respectively  . The GFP:PexRD54AIM2 , RFP:PexRD54AIM1 , RFP:PexRD54AIM2 , RFP:PexRD54AIM1+2 RFP:PexRD54KPLDFDWEIV , RFP:PexRD54J2AIM1 , RFP:PexRD54J2AIM2 , HA:PexRD54AIM2 , HA:PexRD54AIM2 , HA:PexRD54J2AIM1 , HA:PexRD54J2AIM2 , Joka2AIM:RFP constructs were generated as follows:PexRD54 and Joka2 mutant constructs  were cloned into the pENTR/D-Topo Gateway entry vector  by PCR amplification with the primers carrying desired mutations  using PexRD54 and Joka2 entry clones as templates followed by TOPO cloning procedure  . Next , the entry clones of PexRD54 and Joka2 mutants were recombined into destination vectors pH7WGR2 or pB7RWG2 by Gateway LR reaction  . pTRBO FLAG:PexRD54 construct used for coimmunoprecipitations was custom synthesized  . To generate ATG8 interacting motif  mutants in PexRD54 and Joka2 , the conserved tryptophan and leucine residues of the canonical AIMs were both mutated to Alanine as previously done  . In PexRD54AIM1 , PexRD54AIM2 and Joka2AIM , the AIM motifs e . benthamiana leaves as described previously  . infestans isolate 88 , 069 was used . benthamiana plants as described previously  . Proteins were transiently expressed by A . benthamiana leaves and harvested 2 or 3 days post infiltration . Except the stringent PexRD54 immunoprecipitation assay  , all IPs were done using 150 mM NaCl buffer and 0 . In planta association of PexRD54 and Joka2 with either ATG8CL , ATG8CLΔ or ATG8IL constructs was tested by co-IP assays as follows: constructs were transiently co-expressed in N . benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration followed by protein extraction 2–3 days post infiltrations . To test if PexRD54 increased protein levels of ATG8CL , GFP:ATG8CL was co-expressed with RFP:GUS , RFP:PexRD54 and RFP:PexRD54AIM2 in N . benthamiana leaves . The same experimental setup was also used to test whether Joka2 increases protein levels of ATG8CL . Joka2:RFP , Joka2AIM:RFP and RFP:GUS constructs were co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL construct in N . To assay ATG8CL protein levels during infection with P . benthamiana leaves were first infiltrated with GFP:ATG8CL construct and infected one day later with droplets from a zoospore solution of P . Protein extracts were prepared 2 and 3 days after infection and protein levels of GFP:ATG8CL were detected by immunoblots using a polyclonal GFP-HRP antibody  . Joka2:RFP was transiently co-expressed with GFP:ATG8CL in the presence of HA:PexRD54 , HA:PexRD54AIM , or HA:EV constructs in N . benthamiana leaves . Total proteins extracts prepared 2 days after infiltration were then used in anti-GFP Co-IPs . Purified protein complexes were separated by SDS/PAGE and immunoblotted to detect RFP , GFP and HA signals . Similar competition experiment was conveyed with increased HA:PexRD54 A . tumefaciens concentrations  while Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL A . Protein extracts prepared two days after infiltration were used in GFP-IPs as described above . Joka2-ATG8CL binding assays were carried out by co-expressing Joka2:RFP and GFP:ATG8CL in the presence of HA:PexRD54 , HA:PexRD54AIM2 , HA:PexRD54J2AIM1 ( PexRD54 AIM  replaced by Joka2 AIM  ) , HA:PexRD54J2AIM2 ( PexRD54 AIM replaced by Joka2 AIM plus 8 additional amino acids at the C-terminus  ) or HA:EV . GFP-IPs were performed as described above . Infection assays assessing the effect of Joka2 overexpression on P . infestans colonization were performed as follow: Joka2:RFP , Joka2AIM:RFP or RFP EV were transiently overexpressed side by side on either halves of independent N . benthamiana leaves . To demonstrate whether PexRD54 could alleviate the effect of Joka2 on pathogen growth , Joka2:RFP was co-expressed with HA:PexRD54 , HA:PexRD54AIM2 or HA:EV in N . Virus induced gene silencing of Joka2 was performed in N . benthamiana as described previously  . Two different TRV2/pYL279 constructs were designed to target both 5’-and 3’ ends of Joka2 . TRV:Joka2-1 and TRV2:Joka2-2 targeted the region between 340 and 639 and between 1942 and 2241 , respectively . The primers were used for generating TRV2:Joka2-1 and TRV2:Joka2-2 are listed in Supplementary file 3 . TRV2:GFP was used as a negative control as described previously  . Suspensions of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring TRV1/pYL155 and TRV2:Joka2-1 or TRV2:Joka2-2 were mixed in a 2:1 ratio in infiltration buffer ( 10 mM MES  , 10 mM magnesium chloride  , pH 5 . As a control , we used TRV2:GFP . benthamiana plants were infiltrated with A . infestans infections . Primers pairs used for cDNA amplification were Joka2-TRV1-F and Joka2-TRV1-R , and Joka2-TRV2-R and Joka2-TRV2-F  . The GFP and RFP probes were excited using 488 and 561 nm laser diodes and their fluorescent emissions were collected at 495–550 nm and 570–620 nm , respectively . benthamiana leaves transiently expressing GFP:ATG8CL-RFP:PexRD54 , GFP:PexRD54-RFP:ATG8CL or YFP:VTI12 were infiltrated with 5 mM 3-MA . Both GFP:PexRD54 and RFP:ATG8CL constructs were expressed side by side to monitor the effect of 3-MA treatment on stimulation of autophagosome formation by PexRD54 . To determine whether PexRD54 blocked autophagic flux , at 2 dpi we infiltrated leaves with 100 μM E64D and kept them overnight in the dark . benthamiana transiently expressing ATG8CL and PexRD54 , PexRD54AIM2 or empty vector control constructs . ATG8CL-labelled puncta were visualized using confocal microscopy 24 hr after concanamycin A treatment . DNA encoding PexRD54 residues Val92 to Val381  was amplified from RFP:PexRD54  and cloned into the vector pOPINS3C , resulting in an N-terminal 6xHis-SUMO tag with PexRD54 , linked by a 3C cleavage site  . 6xHis-SUMO-PexRD54 was step-eluted with elution buffer  and directly injected onto a Superdex 75 26/600 gel filtration column pre-equilibrated in buffer C  . The fractions containing 6xHis-SUMO-PexRD54 were pooled and concentrated to 2–3 mg/mL . Cleaved PexRD54 was further purified using Ni2+-NTA column  followed by gel filtration . The PexRD54AIM2 variant was amplified from RFP:RD54AIM2  and cloned into the vector pOPINS3C as above . Recombinant protein was expressed and purified as for wild-type PexRD54; with protein concentration measured using a calculated molar extinction coefficient of 51 , 350 M-1cm-1 . DNA encoding Met1 to Ser119 of ATG8CL and Gly2 to Ser119 of ATG8IL were amplified from GFP:ATG8CL and GFP:ATG8IL  and cloned into the vector pOPINF , generating a cleavable N-terminal 6xHis-tag with ATG8CL and ATG8IL . Pelleted cells were resuspended in buffer A and pure , concentrated protein prepared as described for PexRD54 above  . For protein:protein interactions , the calorimetric cell was filled with 100 μM PexRD54 and titrated with 1 . 1 mM ATG8CL or ATG8IL from the syringe . 5 μl of ATG8CL or ATG8IL was followed by 19 injections of 2 μl each . For the heats of dilution control experiments , equivalent volumes of ATG8CL or ATG8IL were injected into buffer using the parameters above . For protein:peptide interactions , the calorimetric cell was filled with 90 μM ATG8CL or ATG8IL and titrated with 1 mM peptide from the syringe . PexRD54  ; StATG8CL  , StATG8IL  , SlATG8CL  , SlATG8IL  , NbATG8CL  , NbATG8IL  , and Joka2  . 
Here , we provide a first analysis of human primary CF behavior by means of a multi-stimulus microdevice for combined application of cyclic mechanical strain and controlled oxygen tension . Our findings elucidate differential human CFs responses to different combinations of the above stimuli . Individual stimuli cause proliferative effects  or increase collagen presence . Interestingly , only the combination of hypoxia and a simulated loss of contractility  is able to additionally induce increased CF release of inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases . Cellular and molecular events such as excessive proliferation of CFs , phenotypic switch of CFs , high levels of inflammatory cytokines and humoral factors , unbalanced synthesis of extracellular matrix  proteins and matrix metalloproteinases  -mediated degradation of ECM are generally regarded as hallmarks of early fibrotic tissue response  . In general , the onset of pathological myocardial conditions causes alterations of specific environmental cues at the cellular scale: mechanical strain decreases  ; oxygen and nutrient levels dramatically decrease  ; levels of inflammatory cytokines increase  . In an attempt to provide in vitro models of cardiac disease , CFs have been widely studied under relevant physico-chemical stimulation such as mechanical stress  , oxygen deprivation  and biochemical stimulation with pro-fibrotic cytokines  . The application of mechanical stress has been shown to have the following effects on CFs: increased ECM protein synthesis  ; controversial proliferative behavior  , with recent reports of strain intensity-dependent effects  ; increased production of pro-fibrotic and inflammatory cytokines such as TGF-β   and TNF-α   . While previous mechanical stress experiments were performed in a normoxic environment  , CFs were shown to be sensitive to O2 level variations from physoxia  , defined as the physiologic oxygen level in living tissues  . Both hypoxia  and NX induce a pro-inflammatory and fibrogenic phenotype in cultured CFs  . These findings imply that normoxic oxygen levels are perceived by CFs as a state of hyperoxia and that a significant bias exists when culturing CFs in non-physiological oxygen environments . The exposure of CFs to HX has been shown to induce collagen production and proliferation of CFs  , while studies suggest that MMP-based remodeling may not be triggered by HX alone  . To date , no comprehensive model is able to recapitulate early cellular events taking place after acute myocardial injury and there is no report of cardiac cells subjected to simultaneous mechanical strain and controlled oxygen changes , two major environmental variables involved in cardiac injury and CF adaptive responses . To address this need , we here report the improvement of a previously described multi-chamber microdevice dedicated to the application of cyclic strain to cell monolayers  . We here finely controlled the applied mechanical strain and oxygen regimes sensed by CFs to model early environmental changes in cardiac injury and provide insights into individual or synergistic contributions of the environmental signals in the activation of early CF responses relevant to cardiac fibrotic disease . Shortly after an ischemic myocardial insult  tissue oxygen levels drop from approximately 5–6% O2  to near-zero  , rapidly inducing loss of cardiac myocytes contractility . In terms of in vitro model parameters , we thus selected 5% O2  as a physiological oxygen level and 1% O2  as an oxygen level characteristic of ischemic myocardial injury . Cardiac imaging studies agree in the interpretation that global strains are abruptly reduced shortly after myocardial insult  . Quantitatively , strain values recorded vary significantly throughout the heart . Within this range and in line with previous in vitro observations of CFs behavior  , we selected 2% strain as indicative of reduced contractility and 8% strain as representative of full myocardial contractility . We thus performed experiments lasting 24 hr and evaluated the main early aspects that govern fibrotic responses in the injured myocardium: ECM remodeling , with stainings for collagen I and quantifications of MMP expression; proliferation of CFs , with analyses of mitotic cells , Hippo pathway signaling and mitogenic PDGF  expression; secretion of inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines in CF supernatants; myofibroblast differentiation , through stainings for αSMA  . Results of our investigation provide insights into how the combination of environmental stimuli may act synergistically or independently to drive in vitro adaptive early CF responses . Myocardial pathological remodeling is largely based on unbalanced CF production of collagen I and MMP-mediated matrix remodeling . To analyze CF-mediated early remodeling events under combined stimulations , we analyzed immunofluorescence images of CFs stained for collagen I . In addition , we quantified the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-3 in cell culture supernatants , two enzymes specifically expressed by CFs during cardiac remodeling  . While CFs normally exhibit diffuse cytoplasmic staining for collagen I , an intense staining localized to perinuclear regions of CFs was observed after 24 hr under specific stimulations  . Based on analysis of intracellular fluorescence intensity , we found that the increase in collagen I was similarly triggered by HX alone and 8% strain alone  . No significant synergy was found for the two stimulations: levels of collagen I are similarly elevated in all HX conditions regardless of strain applied . Correspondingly , collagen I staining exhibits similar intensity in all 8% strain conditions regardless of the oxygen stimulation employed . After only 12 hr of stimulation , collagen I fluorescence showed similar trends , with the exception of HX combined with 8% cyclic strain which provided a greater synergistic effect compared to the single stimulations  . We also report that culturing CFs at NX levels does not induce significant changes in collagen I presence . Analyses of early ECM adaptive responses by CFs subject to combined environmental stimulation . Representative images of CFs fixed after 24 hr stimulations and stained for collagen I  and DAPI  . An intense perinuclear staining is observed in CFs stimulated either by 8% mechanical strain or by HX . Collagen I staining is increased by HX , 8% strain or NX conditions . Detected amounts of MMP-2  and MMP-3  in supernatants of CFs . Both MMP-2 and MMP-3 expression is significantly increased in combined HX and mechanical strain stimulation . White histograms correspond to 0% strain conditions , grey histograms to 2% strain conditions and black histograms to 8% strain conditions . Collagen intensity levels . Quantitative fluorescence intensity analyses on collagen I staining performed on CFs fixed after 12 hr of combined stimulation . Collagen I intensity is increased by HX condition with a more prominent effect when HX was combined to 8% cyclic strain . White histograms correspond to 0% strain conditions , grey histograms to 2% strain conditions and black histograms to 8% strain conditions . 005 The expression of MMP-2 and MMP-3 in CFs supernatants  was significantly influenced by combined mechanical strain and oxygen changes . MMP-2 was more prominently expressed than MMP-3  . Nevertheless , the expression of both enzymes was similarly regulated by the pattern of stimulations applied: a significant two-fold increase in MMP-2 and MMP-3 expression was induced by the combination of HX and mechanical strain , with a more pronounced increase observed in the HX/2% strain combined conditions . MMP-3 expression was negatively affected when CFs were subjected to mechanical strain at PX or HX stimulus alone . During the proliferative phase of myocardial healing , excessive CF proliferation is observed as well as a phenotypic switch giving rise to the fibrotic response . In order to understand how environmental stimuli modulate the proliferation of human CFs , we examined the fraction of mitotic cells  under combined mechanical stimulation and changes in oxygen tension . Figure 2A shows representative images of CFs stained for PHH3 and DAPI . Without application of cyclic strain , we observed a two-fold significant increase in the number of mitotic cells  when CFs were stimulated with HX compared to their PX counterparts . Mechanical strain significantly impacted cell proliferation within the PX culture condition: culturing CFs at PX and subjecting them to 2% strain induced a striking increase in mitotic cells compared to no strain control and 8% strain cultures . This strain intensity-dependent effect is in line with our previous investigations of CF proliferation under mechanical strain in NX conditions  . After 12 hr of stimulation , the proliferative increase with HX is not statistically significant , while we report a significant synergistic decrease of mitotic cells induced by the combination of 8% strain and HX  . Analyses of CFs proliferation under combined environmental stimulation . Representative images of CFs fixed after 24 hr stimulations and stained for PHH3  and DAPI  . Cell mitosis is increased by either HX alone and by 2% strain at PX . Representative images of CFs fixed after 24 hr stimulations and stained for YAP  and DAPI  . Quantitative analyses of cells presenting nuclear YAP plotted as graph . YAP translocation into nuclei is increased by either HX or by 2% strain at PX . Detected amounts of PDGF in supernatants of CFs plotted as graph . PDGF expression is significantly increased in HX alone and HX combined with mechanical strain stimulation  . White histograms correspond to 0% strain conditions , grey histograms to 2% strain conditions and black histograms to 8% strain conditions . Two-way ANOVA test was performed for mitotic cells and nuclear YAP , whereas Kruskal-Wallis test was performed on PDGF expression . Mitotic cells and YAP localization data . Quantification of mitotic cells  performed on CFs fixed after 12 hr of combined stimulation  . Cell mitosis is negatively regulated by 8% cyclic strain combined with HX condition . White histograms correspond to 0% strain conditions , grey histograms to 2% strain conditions and black histograms to 8% strain conditions . 008 In addition , we performed mitotic cell counts on CFs cultured under NX conditions without mechanical strain in order to evaluate any influence of non-physiological oxygen environments on CF proliferation . Interestingly , CFs exhibited much greater mitosis under NX environments  compared to PX environments  denoting a strong proliferative effect of standard cell culture environments . We therefore quantified nuclear localization of YAP by means of immunofluorescence , which revealed that the fraction of CFs displaying nuclear YAP is influenced by the combination of stimuli with trends similar to the fraction of mitotic cells  . In CFs cultured at PX , 2% strain induces higher YAP translocation into cell nuclei . CFs solely exposed to HX environment show a significant two-fold increase in nuclear YAP compared to a PX environment . Mechanical strain shows a negative interaction when combined with HX , with CFs subject to HX/8% strain condition showing lower fractions of nuclear YAP compared to CFs subject to HX alone . Interestingly , CFs cultured in an NX environment show a three-fold increase in nuclear YAP compared to PX conditions . Finally , we detected the expression of PDGF in CF supernatants . PDGF has been described as a potent mitogen for CFs , is significantly over-expressed in in vivo models of heart injury  , and has recently been studied as a putative pharmacological target for attenuating adverse effects of cardiac fibrotic disease  . Expression of PDGF in CF culture supernatant  was significantly affected by HX stimulation: a four-fold increase in the detected amounts of PDGF was observed in HX compared to PX , without application of cyclic strain . Mechanical stimulation showed a negative interaction with the HX-induced secretion of PDGF: while levels of PDGF expression remain elevated under HX/2% strain , application of 8% cyclic strain shows a negative regulation of PDGF secretion back to PX levels of expression . The precise contribution of CFs in the regulation of the early inflammatory response in myocardial remodeling is still to be determined , however , recent reports suggest that CFs play a key role in modulating a functional inflammasome that includes inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines  . We therefore studied the amount of inflammatory cytokines  and of pro-fibrotic TGF-β in CF culture supernatants after 24 hr of combined stimulations  . Analyses of pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory cytokines in supernatants of CFs . TGF-β expression in supernatants . TGF-β expression resulted significantly increased by the combination of HX and mechanical strain  . Expression of IL-1β in CFs supernatants . IL-1β expression resulted significantly upregulated by the combination of HX and mechanical strain  . TNF-α expression in supernatants . Extremely low amounts were detected and environmental stimulations do not induce significant differences in the expression . IL-6 expression in supernatants . IL-6 resulted abundantly expressed by CFs with no statistically significant differences induced by environmental stimulations . White histograms correspond to 0% strain conditions , grey histograms to 2% strain conditions and black histograms to 8% strain conditions . During post-injury myocardial remodeling , TGF-β is known to stimulate a wide range of CF responses from phenotypic switch to collagen synthesis and ECM remodeling  . CFs stimulated with a combination of HX and mechanical strain  were found to increase secretion of TGF-β by approximately two-fold . CFs cultured at PX expressed lower amounts of TGF-β , regardless of the mechanical strain applied  . IL1-β is one of the first cytokines detected in vivo after myocardial injury  and is known to stimulate CF response including the production of MMPs  . Interestingly , we found that a significant two-fold increase in IL1-β expression occurred only when CFs were subjected to the combination of HX and mechanical strain , particularly with 2% strain  . Conversely , we observed how the expression of inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-6 was not influenced by the application of environmental stimuli . IL-6  was abundantly expressed by CFs yet none of the differences in its expression were found to be statistically significant . In the remodeling myocardium , CFs undergo a phenotypic modulation to myofibroblasts , a motile and contractile cell type that maintains tissue integrity and promotes scar formation and tissue fibrosis  . To analyze whether CFs differentiation into myofibroblasts took place under environmental changes we evaluated expression and localization of αSMA after 24 hr of combined stimulation . Immunostainings of CFs  reveal that a basal expression of cytoplasmic αSMA is present in all combined stimulation conditions . However , under no experimental condition did CFs exhibit co-localization of αSMA  and actin stress fibers  , indicating that differentiation into myofibroblasts was not induced by our pattern of environmental stimuli . Conversely , stimulating CFs by supplementing TGF-β in the culture medium  caused the appearance of cells exhibiting superimposed αSMA and actin signal  . Representative images of CFs fixed after 24 hr combined stimulations  and stained for actin  and αSMA  , nuclei were counterstained with DAPI  . Positive control for αSMA immunofluorescence through stimulation with 30 ng/ml TGF-β: CFs exhibit co-localization of αSMA staining with actin stress fibers  denoting differentiation into myofibroblasts  . 011 In summary , we propose an innovative model that recreates a pathological environment for understanding CF responses during cardiac injury . Replicating for the first time the combination of oxygen changes and mechanical cues , we revealed how these environmental stimulations combine to trigger CF pathological responses and highlighted emerging adaptive cellular mechanisms . We found that mimicking the combination of HX and reduced contractility proved crucial in eliciting inflammatory and fibrotic remodeling responses of CFs , while individual environmental stimuli only regulated proliferative and collagen-related responses . Figure 5 shows a detailed representation of oxygen dynamics and mechanical strain conditions employed  together with a timeline of experiments  . After cells seeding , CFs were kept in static incubation for 12 hr in order to allow for cell adhesion . Subsequently – being this initial time-point referred to as t0 – CFs seeded in the inlet and outlet wells of the culture chambers were manually scraped , aspirated and stimulations were started . We employed two mechanical stimulation regimes  : 2% strain or 8% strain at 1 Hz . Concerning the oxygenation stimulus applied , the microdevices were employed at a base environmental oxygen level corresponding to physoxia  in order to precisely model the oxygen levels in healthy myocardium until t0 . Then , two oxygen concentration dynamics were imposed  :  a static incubation at 5% O2  for 24 hr ,  an abrupt reduction of oxygen concentrations to 1% O2 that was maintained for 24 hr  . CFs were subject to all possible combinations of the above stimuli  for a total of 24 hr . Immunofluorescence analyses were performed after 12 hr and 24 hr of stimulation , while cell culture supernatants were collected and analyzed after 24 hr of stimulation . Immunofluorescence analyses were also performed on CFs cultured at NX levels under 0% strain condition to investigate responses induced by culturing CFs in non-physiological NX environments , a standard condition for most previous studies on CFs . Oxygen changes reproduced in the present work: an incubation at PX; an abrupt reduction to HX environments  maintained for 24 hr . Mechanical stimulation regimes investigated in the present work: a static control at constant 0% strain; a cyclic mechanical strain stimulation at 2% strain and 1 Hz frequency; a cyclic mechanical strain stimulation at 8% strain and 1 Hz frequency . Experimental timeline of the experiments performed: cells were seeded on microdevices and allowed to adhere to the culture membranes for 12 hr at PX and 0% strain before starting the combination of environmental stimuli . After 12 hr from the beginning of stimulations , we fixed samples for immunofluorescence analyses and after 24 hr we fixed samples for immunofluorescence analyses and collected supernatants for protein expression quantifications . Blue channels represent the four cell culture chambers , green channel represents the lower circuit flowing below all four culture chambers meant for oxygen conditioning , red channel represent vacuum actuation circuit for application of mechanical strain to cell cultures . Numerical modeling and experimental characterization of oxygen conditioning system included in the microdevices employed for the present work . Spatial distribution of oxygen tension in a culture chamber cross-section upon application of a fixed oxygen tension  at the lower channel boundaries simulating the flow of deoxygenating nitrogen gas . The side vacuum chamber boundaries are also set at a fixed oxygen tension to simulate cyclic vacuum application . Considering the membrane region , where cells are cultured  , the oxygen tension is uniformly distributed with limited border effects near the channel walls . Outline of the lower layer of the microdevices showing conditioning gas inlets and outlets together with numbered culture chambers . Experimental measurements of near-membrane oxygen concentrations performed by means of a needle-based oxygen sensor on all four culture chambers of n = 4 microdevices upon application of varying flowrates  of gas in the lower conditioning channel . Oxygen levels reach approximately 1% uniformly throughout all four chambers of the microdevices . Experimental measurements of near-membrane oxygen concentrations performed on all four culture chambers of n = 4 microdevice with respect to time  . Impact of conditioning gas flowrates on the resulting membrane strain when no vacuum is applied . No membrane strain is observed for 5 ml/min or 15 ml/min flowrates while 50 ml/min gas flowrates cause membrane strain of approximately 2% . In each stretching unit , a central culture chamber  is flanked by two actuation chambers  connected to a single actuation line , meant for vacuum application and straining of the central membrane . Figure 5—figure supplement 1 also shows the stimulation system: microdevices were actuated by a vacuum line for generating mechanical strain and a gas line for controlling oxygen concentrations . Numerical modeling and experimental characterization of the oxygen control system is described in Figure 5—figure supplement 2 . We employed a needle-based , fine-tip  oxygen sensor adjusted with a micromanipulator  to reach the culture membrane . Measured oxygen concentration values confirm that the culture membrane is conditioned to ≈1% O2 at varying flowrates and consistently throughout all four culture chambers  . Membrane strains upon application of varying gas flowrates were measured as previously described  . Gas flowrates of 5 ml/min and 15 ml/min do not cause significant membrane strain  . After pre-loading each culture chamber of the microdevices with 80 µl of medium , 20 µl of cell suspension  were manually injected in the wells of the culture chambers . During experiments , microdevices were kept in humidified chambers to avoid culture medium evaporation . CFs cultured under standard culture medium supplemented with 30 ng/ml TGF-β  were considered positive controls for αSMA stainings . Nuclear staining was performed by incubating cells with DAPI . Images were acquired from the central region of the culture membrane . A volume of culture medium  was collected per each culture chamber from the microfluidic devices after 24 hr . Two-way ANOVA tests followed by Bonferroni post-hoc tests were applied to determine statistical significance of differences and evaluate synergistic or separate contribution of mechanical strain stimulation and oxygen dynamics stimulation . We designed the approximate sample size required for the study by performing power analysis based on previously reported data on human cardiac fibroblasts  proliferative responses under mechanical strain  . In addition , we considered preliminary data obtained from human CFs cultured at different oxygen levels . 
Histone acetylation and deposition of H2A . Here we show that alternative isoforms of the DOMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase , DOM-A and DOM-B , directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes . The DOM-B complex incorporates H2A . V  genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner , like the yeast SWR1 complex . The DOM-A complex , instead , functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex similar to the yeast NuA4 , targeting lysine 12 of histone H4 . In yeast and humans , nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate from gene duplication and paralog specification . Drosophila generates the same diversity by alternative splicing of a single gene . Z is introduced into chromatin by the SWR1 complex  , a multi-subunit ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler with the INO80-type ATPase SWR1 at its core  . In Drosophila melanogaster , where H2A . The first biochemical characterization revealed the presence of a multi-subunit complex composed of 15 proteins associated with the DOM ATPase  . While many of the interactors identified are orthologous to the yeast SWR1 . NuA4 . C is a histone acetyltransferase  complex with the histone H4 N-terminal domain as a primary target  . The DOM complex  appeared then to be a chimera , a fusion between two complexes with different biochemical activities . It has been proposed that both enzymatic activities of DOM . C , histone acetylation and histone variant exchange , are required for H2A . It is unclear , however , if this model of DOM . It is long known that the dom transcripts are alternatively spliced to generate two major isoforms , DOM-A and DOM-B  . In this work , we systematically characterized the molecular context and function of each DOM splice variant in D . melanogaster cell lines and assessed their contribution to the activity of the DOM . On the one hand , we found that the DOM-B . On the other hand , we discovered that DOM-A . V incorporation , despite the presence of an ATPase domain and many shared subunits with DOM-B . Rather , we realized that DOM-A . C might be the ‘missing’ acetyltransferase NuA4 . Surprisingly , our data also suggest that the ATPase activity of DOM-A is dispensable for H4K12 acetylation by the DOM-A . The isoforms of the DOMINO ATPase , DOM-A and DOM-B , are identical for the first 2008 amino acids , but alternative splicing diversifies their C-termini  . DOM-A has a longer C-terminus characterized by a SANT domain and a region rich in poly-glutamine stretches  . The shorter C-terminus of DOM-B , instead , folds in no predictable manner . To avoid artefactual association of DOM isoforms with proteins upon overexpression , we inserted a 3XFLAG tag within the endogenous dom gene in D . melanogaster embryonic cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9 . The sites were chosen such that either DOM-A  or DOM-B  would be tagged at their C-termini . Of note , the editing of DOM-A C-terminus results in the additional tagging of a longer , DOM-A-like isoform  , but leaves a second DOM-A-like isoform untagged  . The dom gene editing resulted in the expression of 3XFLAG-tagged proteins of the correct size and with similar expression levels across clones  . Mass-spectrometry analysis revealed 13 and 12 strongly enriched interactors  for DOM-A and DOM-B , respectively  . Of those , 7 are common between the two isoforms and were previously characterized as DOM interactors  . Two of the expected subunits , PONT and REPT , associated more strongly with DOM-B than with DOM-A under these conditions  . A newly identified DOM-B interactor , HCF , also interacts less strongly DOM-A  . The unique interactors revealed interesting differences between DOM-A and DOM-B  . Three of the proteins that specifically associate with DOM-A  share extensive homology with the acetyltransferase module of the yeast NuA4 complex . Another component of the yeast NuA4 . C , NIPPED-A , specifically associates with DOM-A . Additionally , we found two transcription factors , XBP1 and CG12054 , amongst the DOM-A specific interactors . On the DOM-B side , only ARP6 and PPS appear to be specific interactors of this isoform . While ARP6 was not described before in Drosophila , its yeast homolog is essential for H2A . Z remodeling by the SWR1 . To validate the DOM-A/TIP60 interaction , we raised monoclonal antibodies against TIP60 . Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed that TIP60 interacts with DOM-A and not with DOM-B  . The immunoprecipitation of DOM-A appears to be more efficient when probing with the anti-FLAG antibody compared to the anti-DOM-A polyclonal antibody . This difference might be explained by the presence of one of the DOM-A-like isoforms  , which was left untagged . This isoform is therefore not immunoprecipitated by the anti-FLAG antibody , but it is recognized by the DOM-A specific antibody . Importantly , the same co-immunoprecipitation showed that DOM-A and DOM-B do not interact with each other under these conditions . Taken together , these findings document the existence of two distinct DOM complexes: DOM-A . C and DOM-B . Previous observation in flies suggested that DOM-A and DOM-B have different , non-redundant functions during Drosophila development  . Isoform-specific depletion by RNA interference  of either DOM variant in a Drosophila embryonic cell line did not lead to depletion of the other isoform  . Interestingly , knock-down of DOM-A  led to a strong reduction of TIP60 protein levels . tip60 mRNA levels were unchanged  , indicating that TIP60 requires DOM-A for stability  . This suggests that most of TIP60 resides in the DOM-A complex in Drosophila cells . The yeast SWR-1 and NuA4 complexes are both implicated in transcription  . We therefore explored the functional differences of the two DOM isoforms on transcription by RNAseq . V and TIP60 . Knock-down of either DOM-A , DOM-B , TIP60 or H2A . Principal Components Analysis  revealed clearly different transcriptional responses upon loss of DOM-A or DOM-B  , which can be visualized by comparing their log2 fold-changes relative to control  . 45 indicates that many genes are regulated similarly by both ATPases , but a significant number of genes are also differentially affected upon specific depletion of either DOM-A or DOM-B  . As expected , the transcriptional effects of DOM-A knock-down , but not of DOM-B , resemble the ones caused by knock-down of TIP60  . Depletion of H2A . virilis RNA   . V depletion were better correlated to DOM-B  than to DOM-A knock-down   . Many effects of DOM-B depletion may be explained by its H2A . In summary , we found that the depletion of the two DOM isoforms in cells caused specific transcriptional perturbations . The partially overlapping responses upon DOM-B and H2A . V depletions motivated a more in-depth analysis of the relationship between DOM-B and H2A . Both SWR1-type ATPases , DOM-A and DOM-B may contribute to H2A . V levels upon isoform-specific RNAi in nuclear extracts containing chromatin and soluble nuclear proteins . V reduction upon DOM-B depletion  , while H2A . Among the interactors found in our mass-spectrometry analysis , only RNAi against the DOM-B . V was not affected by the knock-down of DOM-A , TIP60 or other DOM-A . virilis spike-in cells to quantify global changes in H2A . V levels along the entire genome upon depletion of DOM-B , including promoters and transcriptional termination sites  . Depletion of DOM-A did not affect chromosomal H2A . These observations support the notion that the DOM-B . C , and not the DOM-A . V by DOM-B . We devised an RNAi-based complementation strategy in which we rescued the effects of depleting endogenous dom-B mRNA by expression of RNAi-resistant dom-B transgenes . The functional complementation involved wild-type DOM-B or a mutant predicted to be deficient in ATP-binding   . GFP-tagging of the DOM-B proteins allowed to selectively monitor the H2A . V in cells complemented with a wild-type DOM-B transgene , indicating the expected rescue  . The data suggest that the DOM-B . Despite the presence of an ATPase domain identical to DOM-B , DOM-A does not seem to be responsible for H2A . Therefore , we considered other functions for DOM-A . The striking correlation between transcriptional responses upon TIP60 and DOM-A depletion suggests a unique association with functional relevance . Our mass-spectrometry analysis had identified several proteins that are homologous to corresponding subunits of the yeast NuA4 HAT complex . The core NuA4 . DOM-A also features similarly arranged domains , but they are separated by the long ATPase domain  . This raises the question whether DOM-A might serve as the central subunit of a NuA4-type complex in Drosophila . Since NuA4 . C is responsible for histone acetylation , we looked at H3 and H4 acetylation changes upon DOM isoform-specific knock-down by targeted mass-spectrometry . The hypothesis of a Drosophila NuA4 . C poses the acetyltransferase TIP60 as the main effector of DOM-A . This is supported by the earlier finding that TIP60 is unstable in the absence of DOM-A  . We therefore included TIP60 knock-down for our targeted mass-spectrometry . Our analysis showed that RNAi against DOM-A , but not against DOM-B , specifically reduces H4K12ac  and , to a lesser extent , H4K5ac   . Importantly , unsupervised clustering shows that depleting DOM-A or TIP60 lead to very similar changes in histone acetylation patterns: depletion of TIP60 also reduces H4K12ac , by on average 36 . 3% and H4K5ac by 16 . Interestingly , we detected a decrease in monomethylation and increase of trimethylation at H3K27 by DOM depletion , a bit stronger for DOM-A or TIP60  . The H4K12 seems to be the most prominent chromatin target of the DOM-A/TIP60 complex . We found the H4K12ac signal reduced in many regions of the genome , including promoters and transcriptional termination sites , upon TIP60 RNAi and to a lesser extent upon DOM-A RNAi  , but the results suffer from variability , probably due to a low ChIP efficiency of the H4K12ac antibody  . Comparison between H4K12ac and transcription showed that genes downregulated in DOM-A or TIP60 knock-down tend to have higher basal levels of H4K12ac at promoters  . The reduction of H4K12ac by DOM-A or TIP60 knock-down , however , is global and does not affect some genes specifically  . Remarkably , depletion of DOM-B caused an unexpected increase in H4K12 acetylation at many chromosomal regions that lose the mark upon DOM-A ablation  . Depletion of H2A . V also causes a small H4K12ac increase similarly to DOM-B knock-down , as if the absence of this remodeler and/or its substrate allowed more DOM-A activity at promoters . The yeast NuA4 . To explore whether the acetylation of H4K12 catalyzed by the DOM-A . C depends on ATP-dependent nucleosome remodeling activity , we employed the same RNAi-based complementation strategy we had used for DOM-B  . DOM-A was depleted and RNAi-resistant DOM-A wild-type or ATPase mutant derivatives were tested for their ability to rescue the loss of H4K12ac . As expected , the wild-type DOM-A transgene restored H4K12 acetylation  . Remarkably , this acetylation did not depend on a functional DOM-A ATPase . Our mass-spectrometry analysis of endogenously expressed DOM isoforms purified under stringent conditions revealed two separate complexes . A DOM . C was previously reported after overexpression and affinity-purification of tagged PONTIN  , which yielded a mixture of DOM-A and DOM-B complexes and may be contaminated with the dINO80 complex , which also contains PONTIN  . V exchange during DNA damage response proposed in this early work  should be re-visited accounting for the contribution of both DOM-A . C , DOM-B . We previously showed that DOM-B , and not DOM-A or TIP60 , affects H2A . In addition to confirming this finding in a different system and with complementary experimental approaches , we now also showed that the DOM-B . V incorporation into chromatin . The reaction requires ATP , like SWR1 . V global levels , just like DOM-B . In yeast SWR1 . The Drosophila DOM-B . Knock-down of DOM-B affects transcription , but the effects overlap only partially with those that follow H2A . V depletion . V levels upon DOM-B knock-down is not as extensive as the one caused by direct depletion of H2A . V upon DOM-B depletion may suffice to regulate transcription at many promoters . Second , we cannot exclude that DOM-B . Third , the global increase of H4K12ac at promoters upon DOM-B knock-down might indirectly compensate for the loss of H2A . The DOM-A . V incorporation under physiological conditions in any of our assays , in agreement with what has been observed for the DOM-A isoform during oogenesis  . DOM-A . Because the ATPase domain of DOM-A is identical to the one in DOM-B , it is possible that DOM-A utilizes ATP under circumstances that we did not monitor in our study . It is also possible that DOM-A . C-specific subunits have an inhibitory effect on DOM-A ATPase activity through allosteric regulation . Of note , the recombinant human ortholog of DOM-A , EP400 , can incorporate H2A . Our data suggest that the DOM-A . C is the functional equivalent of the yeast NuA4 . Depletion of DOM-A . Some genomic regions that still retain a high H4K12ac ChIP signal in the absence of DOM-A may be explained by the presence of additional acetyltransferases targeting H4K12 , such as CHAMEAU  . We speculate that H4K12ac may participate in transcriptional regulation since knock-down of DOM-A or TIP60 perturb the transcriptional program in a very similar manner . Genes down-regulated upon DOM-A and TIP60 RNAi show high H4K12ac around their TSS , but the H4K12ac is not specifically reduced at their promoters . The increase in H4K12ac at promoter observed upon DOM-B RNAi appears to be partially phenocopied by the knock-down of H2A . It is possible that H2A-containing nucleosomes are a better substrate for the DOM-A . The loss of the variant might therefore result in higher H4K12ac catalyzed by TIP60 . In the absence of DOM-A , TIP60 is unstable suggesting that the DOM-A . melanogaster cells . albicans , where acetylation of EAF1 by TIP60 mediates a reversible association between the NuA4 . C and SWR1 . We found that the DOM-A . C H4K12 HAT activity does not need the DOM-A ATPase activity . In yeast , inserting the ATPase domain of the Drosophila DOM between the HSA and SANT domains of EAF1 , the central subunit of the yeast NuA4 , does not affect its function  . Such a situation could also apply to DOM-A . Lastly , our mass-spectrometry analysis revealed new , uncharacterized interactors for DOM-A . Of those , the transcription factor CG12054 has been found as a potential DOM partner in a previous screen  . The case of DOM illustrates beautifully how evolution can take different routes to achieve what must be assumed as an important functional specification  . In yeast , the SWR1 and NuA4 complexes are entirely separate entities . Surprisingly , the gene orthologs of dom in honeybee  , jewel wasp  , Jerdon’s jumpin ant  , red flour beetle  and even in the common house spider  undergo alternative splicing to generate at least two isoforms with different C-termini . The mode of specification of SWR1 and NuA4 through splice variants might therefore not be limited to Drosophila , but more wide-spread throughout the Arthropoda phylum . melanogaster embryonic Kc167 cell line was obtained from the Drosophila Genomic Resource Center  . melanogaster S2  cell line was a kind gift of P Heun  . Two gRNAs each for DOM-A and DOM-B were selected  . Medium was then removed and cells carefully overlaid with 2 . The PCR product of DOM-A clone #2 results larger due to the presence of an insertion 29 bp downstream of the stop codon  . For nuclear extraction from 3XFLAG-tagged cells lines , 0 . 5–1 billion cells were collected by centrifugation at 500 g for 5 min . Cells were washed with 10 ml of PBS , resuspended in 10 ml of ice-cold NBT-10 buffer  and rotated for 10 min at 4°C . Lysed cells were gently overlaid on 20 ml of ice-cold NB-1 . 2 buffer  and spun at 4000 g for 15 min . Pelleted nuclei were washed once with 10 ml of ice-cold NB-10 buffer  and resuspended in ice-cold Protein-RIPA buffer  . For mass-spectrometry , beads were incubated with 50 µL of elution buffer  for 30 min at 37°C . 7 min was enabled . melanogaster Kc167 cell were collected by spinning at 500 g for 5 min . 5 million/ml  or 3 million/ml  . 75 million  , 1 . 5 million  or 15 million  cells were plated and 5 µg  , 10 ug  or 50 µg  of dsRNA was added . Cells were incubated for 1 hr with gentle rocking and 3 volumes of Schneider’s Drosophila Medium  was added . After 6 days cells were collected and analyzed . Two million of Kc167 cells were pelleted at 500 g for 5 min . Cells were resuspended in 1 mL of PBS and 1 million of D . virilis 79f7Dv3 cells were added . melanogaster  or independently to the D . melanogaster or D . virilis count tables independently using DESeq2 package  . virilis were applied to D . melanogaster counts . For nuclear fractionation , 5–10 million cells were pelleted at 500 g for 5 min and washed with PBS . Lysed cells were gently overlaid on 500 µL of ice-cold NB-1 . 2 buffer and spun at 5000 g for 20 min . Pelleted nuclei were washed once with 500 µL of ice-cold NB-10 buffer . 1% SDS  at 400 mA for 45–60 min . 70 to 130 million D . melanogaster Kc167 cells , resuspended in 20 ml of complete Schneider’s Drosophila Medium , were crosslinked by adding 1:10 of the volume of Fixing Solution  and rotated at room temperature for 8 min . Cells were pelleted at 500 g for 10 min  and resuspended in 10 mL of ice-cold PBS . 5 million of fixed D . virilis cells  were added for every 70 million D . melanogaster cells . Cells were pelleted at 526 g for 10 min  and resuspended in 1 ml of PBS + 0 . melanogaster cells and rotated at 4°C for 15 min to release nuclei . Nuclei were pelleted at 2000 g for 10 min and washed once with 10 ml of ice-cold PBS . Nuclei were suspended in 1 ml of RIPA buffer  + 2 mM CaCl2 for every 70 million D . melanogaster cells , divided into 1 ml aliquots and flash-frozen in liquid N2 . Chromatin was digested for 35 min at 37°C . DNA was purified using 1 . melanogaster  or independently to the D . virilis  genome using bowtie2  using standard parameters . virilis genome . DOM-A and DOM-B cDNAs were cloned into pENTR3c vector  by In-Fusion Cloning  using LD35056 , LD03212 , LD32234 plasmids Drosophila Genomic Resource Center ) as templates for PCR . RNAi-resistant DOM-A and DOM-B were generated by substituting around 500 bp of the original cDNA sequence with manually mutagenized , synthesized DNA constructs  , by restriction cloning . DOM-A and DOM-B K945G mutants were generated by site-directed mutagenesis  . 1–2 million Kc167 cells in 2 ml complete Schneider’sDrosophilaMedium were seeded in each well of a 6-well plate . Cells were fixed in 500 µL of ice-cold PBS + 2% formaldehyde for 7 . 5 min . 5 min . Cells were incubated with 1 ml of 0 . For histone acid extraction , pellets from 4 to 12 million cells were resuspended in 500 µL of ice-cold 0 . 5x Laemmli sample buffer for every initial cell million and boiled at 95°C for 5 min . The histones corresponding to 10 million cells were separated onto 4–20% pre-cast polyacrylamide gels  . 1% TFA . 25% TFA . DOM-A and DOM-B polyclonal antibody were generated by expression of C-terminal specific polypeptides . For DOM-A , residues 2963 to 3188 were expressed as C-terminal Glutathione-S-transferase  fusion in E . For DOM-B , residues 2395 to 2497 were expressed as C-terminal Maltose Binding Protein  fusion in E . For the monoclonal antibody against TIP60 , N-terminal 6xHis-tagged TIP60  was expressed in E . Sources of other antibodies were: DOM-A monoclonal and H2A . 
Neuromuscular junction formation requires proper interaction between motoneurons and muscle cells . β-Catenin  in muscle is critical for motoneuron differentiation; however , little is known about the relevant retrograde signal . In this paper , we dissected which functions of muscle Ctnnb1 are critical by an in vivo transgenic approach . We show that Ctnnb1 mutant without the transactivation domain was unable to rescue presynaptic deficits of Ctnnb1 mutation , indicating the involvement of transcription regulation . On the other hand , the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 is dispensable . We screened for proteins that may serve as a Ctnnb1-directed retrograde factor and identified Slit2 . Transgenic expression of Slit2 specifically in the muscle was able to diminish presynaptic deficits by Ctnnb1 mutation in mice . Slit2 immobilized on beads was able to induce synaptophysin puncta in axons of spinal cord explants . Together , these observations suggest that Slit2 serves as a factor utilized by muscle Ctnnb1 to direct presynaptic differentiation . The neuromuscular junction  is a cholinergic synapse that rapidly conveys signals from motoneurons to muscle cells to control muscle contraction . NMJ formation requires reciprocal interactions between nerve terminals and muscle cells . In anterograde signaling , nerve-derived agrin directs post-synaptic differentiation by interacting with muscle transmembrane receptors LRP4 and MuSK , which in turn activate downstream signaling events leading to AChR concentration at the NMJ  . Intriguingly , when Ctnnb1 is mutated in muscle fibers , mutant mice die neonatally , with profound presynaptic deficits such as mislocation of phrenic nerve primary branches , reduced synaptic vesicles , and impaired neuromuscular transmission  , suggesting that Ctnnb1 in muscle cells is necessary for presynaptic differentiation . In support of this notion are recent reports that expression of stable Ctnnb1 in muscle cells also impairs presynaptic differentiation in mutant mice  . These observations suggest that Ctnnb1 in muscle is critical for a retrograde pathway to direct nerve terminal development . NMDAR stimulation accumulates Ctnnb1 in spines , which in turn regulates induced endocytosis of N-cadherins  . These observations raise questions whether the muscle Ctnnb1 regulates presynaptic differentiation via cell adhesion-dependent signaling and/or gene-expression . In this paper , we determined which function of Ctnnb1 is required for NMJ formation by characterizing transgenic mice expressing wild-type or Ctnnb1 mutants that were impaired in transcriptional regulation or cell-adhesion signaling . Rescue experiments indicated a necessary role for the transcription activity of muscle Ctnnb1 in presynaptic differentiation . Our exploration of targets of Ctnnb1 as potential muscle-derived retrograde factors led to the identification of Slit2 , an environmental cue that repels or collapses neuronal axons  . Slit2 belongs to a family of large ECM  glycoproteins known to be chemorepellent for olfactory , motor , hippocampal , and retinal axons  . However , Slit2 was also shown to stimulate the formation of axon collateral branches by dorsal root ganglia neurons  and positively regulate motor axon fasciculation  . Slit2 was able to induce clusters of synaptophysin in cultured neurons , suggesting a synaptogenic function . Expression of Slit2 specifically in muscle fibers was able to rescue NMJ deficits in Ctnnb1-mutant mice . These observations demonstrate that Ctnnb1 regulates presynaptic differentiation by a transcription-dependent mechanism and identify Slit2 as a novel retrograde factor in NMJ formation . The N-terminal region of Ctnnb1 interacts with α-catenin , critical for cell adhesion . The key amino acid residues in Ctnnb1 for interaction with α-catenin have been mapped to Thr-120 and Val-122  . Mutation of these two residues to alanines prevents Ctnnb1 from binding to α-catenin  . However , the mutation has no effect on binding to TCF/Lef1 , and thus , does not alter the transcription by Ctnnb1 and TCF/Lef1  . To determine which function of Ctnnb1 is necessary , we generated transgenic mice: Ctnnb1TV-AA  to impair the cell-adhesion function and TAD-deleted Ctnnb1  to eliminate the transcriptional regulation , as well as wild-type LSL-Ctnnb1 . In HEK293 cells , co-expression of GFP-Cre , which floxed out the stop element , led to expression of Ctnnb1 , Ctnnb1TV-AA , and Ctnnb1ΔTAD that could be detected by both anti-HA and anti-Ctnnb1 antibodies  . To determine whether Ctnnb1 and mutants were expressed in skeletal muscles , the transgenic mice were crossed with ACTA1-Cre mice that express the Cre recombinase specifically in skeletal muscles under the control of the promoter of the human skeletal alpha-actin  gene  . As shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 1C , D , HA-tagged Ctnnb1 and mutants were expressed in muscles of ACTA1-Cre::LSL-Ctnnb1 , but not in muscles of ACTA1-Cre or mice that carried only the transgenes . Moreover , the transgene expression was muscle-specific and not detectable in other tissues including spinal cord   . ACTA1-Cre::LSL-Ctnnb1 , ACTA1-Cre::LSL-Ctnnb1TV-AA , and ACTA1-Cre::LSL-Ctnnb1∆TAD mice were viable and fertile and exhibited normal NMJ morphology , compared to control mice    . We bred the LSL-transgenic mice with ACTA1-Cre::Ctnnb1fl/+ mice  to determine whether and which transgene was able to rescue NMJ deficits by Ctnnb1 mutation . Notice that both the expression of wildtype or mutant Ctnnb1 and the deletion of endogenous Ctnnb1 depend on the ACTA1 promoter . In control mice  , primary branches of the phrenic nerve were located in the middle of muscle fibers . The secondary branches were numerous and short , many of which end with AChR clusters that were confined to the central region of muscle fibers   . However , in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−  mutants , the primary branches were mislocated to the tendon region close to the central cavity , the secondary branches were fewer and longer , and the region where AChR cluster distributed became wider  . As expected , expression of wild-type Ctnnb1 was able to rescue these phenotypes  . Interestingly , these phenotypes were also completely rescued by Ctnnb1TV-AA since no difference was detectable in primary branch location , secondary branch number and length , and endplate band width between ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1ΔTAD mice and control or ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1 mice , indicating that the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 is not necessary for presynaptic differentiation . Requirement of the TAD domain to rescue presynaptic deficits in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− deficits . Generation and identification of LSL-Ctnnb1 , LSL-Ctnnb1TV-AA , LSL-Ctnnb1ΔTAD transgenic mice . The wild-type , TV-AA , and ΔTAD Ctnnb1 were tagged at the C-terminus by HA-tag and were subcloned into the pCCALL2 vector . Western blot showing Cre-dependent expression of wild-type , TV-AA , and ΔTAD Ctnnb1 transgenes in HEK293 cells . Western blot showing ACTA1-Cre-dependent expression of Ctnnb1 transgenes in vivo . Western blot showing HA-tagged Ctnnb1TV-AA expressed only in the muscles of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1TV-AA , with concomitant deletion of endogenous Ctnnb1 alleles were knocked out . 004 We have shown that muscle-specific ablation of Ctnnb1 disrupts presynaptic structure and function  . In control mice , axon terminals were filled with synaptic vesicles , some of which were docked on electron-dense active zones  . 30 vesicles/0 . 37 vesicles/0 . 04 μm2 in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− terminals  , in agreement with previous report  . As shown in Figure 2 , the reduction in vesicle density was diminished by expressing Ctnnb1 or Ctnnb1TV-AA , with 3 . 33 vesicle/0 . 04 mm2 in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1 mice and ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1TV-AA mice , respectively   . These results indicated that presynaptic deficits could be rescued by wild-type Ctnnb1 or Ctnnb1TV-AA , suggesting a dispensable role of the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 . In contrast , synaptic vesicle density in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1∆TAD remained low , at 1 . 50 vesicles/0 . 04 μm2 , which was not different from ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice   , demonstrating inability of the ΔTAD mutant to rescue and suggesting an important role of the transcription regulation in the retrograde pathway . Similarly , active zones were fewer in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice and ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1∆TAD mice , compared with control mice , ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1 mice , and ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1TV-AA mice  . As reported previously  , Ctnnb1 mutation in muscles did not alter the number of terminals per NMJ and the width of synaptic clefts . Expression of Ctnnb1 wild type or mutants did not change these parameters  . These results are in agreement with the notion that muscle Ctnnb1 mainly regulates presynaptic differentiation . The TAD is necessary for muscle Ctnnb1 to regulate presynaptic development . Asterisks , active zones; SBL , synaptic basal lamina; N , nerve terminals; M , muscle fibers; SC , Schwann cells; SV , synaptic vesicle . Synaptic nuclear localization of Ctnnb1 and Axin2-nlacZ in the NMJ region . Muscle fibers were stained whole mount with anti-Ctnnb1  or for β-galactosidase  , together with DAPI to label nuclei and R-BTX to label AChR . NMJ , neuromuscular junction . There was about 50% reduction in mEPP frequency in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice , compared with control mice    , but no change in mEPP amplitude  . These results were in agreement with morphological presynaptic deficits  . The frequency reduction phenotype was rescued by both wild-type Ctnnb1 and the TV-AA mutant   . In contrast , mEPP frequency remained depressed in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::LSL-Ctnnb1ΔTAD mice  . Together , these results of both morphological and functional studies indicate the requirement of the Ctnnb1's TAD in motor nerve terminal differentiation and suggest that Ctnnb1-regulated transcription is necessary for motor nerve terminal differentiation . Rescue of neurotransmission deficits depends on Ctnnb1 TAD domain . 007 To determine whether Ctnnb1 is locally activated , we performed the following two experiments  . First , whole-mount staining of muscle fibers with Ctnnb1 antibody indicates that Ctnnb1 in synaptic nuclei appeared to be higher than that in extra-synaptic regions  . Second , we characterized Axin2-nlacZ mice , where the nuclear-localized β-galactosidase  DNA was inserted in the Axin2 gene , a target of Wnt/Ctnnb1 signaling . Expression of β-galactosidase in Axin2-nlacZ mice is controlled , which has been used as a reporter of Wnt or Ctnnb1 activity  . These results are in agreement with the notion of active Wnt/Ctnnb1 signaling in synaptic nuclei at the NMJ and provide additional support to the model . The necessity of the TAD in muscle Ctnnb1 regulation of presynaptic terminals suggests that genes whose expression is controlled by Ctnnb1 may serve as retrograde factors . To identify such a factor , we performed quantitative real-time PCR  to screen for genes that are down-regulated in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscles , compared with Ctnnb1fl/fl control . C-Myc and Axin2 , whose expression is regulated by Ctnnb1  , were used a positive control . Their mRNAs were lower in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscles than control , indicating the validity of the method  . In a panel of more than 70 genes , 9 were reduced in expression in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− , compared to control Ctnnb1fl/fl mice  . Of particular interest is Slit2 , a repulsive axon guidance cue of the Slit family  . Slit2 as well as Slit1 regulate axon collateral formation  . Interestingly , mutation of Slit2 , but not Slit1 or Slit3 , disrupts motoneuron fasciculation and primary nerve location  , akin to NMJ morphological deficits of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice . Of the three members of the Slit family , only Slit2 was down-regulated in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscles  . The reduction was also confirmed by Western blot analysis of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscle homogenates  . Slit2 was reduced in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscle . RNA was purified from P0 muscles of Ctnnb1fl/fl  and ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−  and subjected to quantitative real-time PCR . Shown were genes in different groups: known Ctnnb1 targets  , ECM  proteins  , trophic factors  , morphogens  , and environmental cues  . Transcriptional regulation of Slit2 by Ctnnb1 . Expression of Slit2 was reduced in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscles . Slit2 expression was increased by elevating Ctnnb1 . C2C12 myoblasts were transfected with HA-Ctnnb1 . Resulting myotubes were subjected to Western blot with antibodies against Slit2 or HA . Ctnnb1 binding to the promoter of Slit2 5′UTR  . Cross-linked DNA of C2C12 myotubes was subjected precipitation with anti-Ctnnb1 antibody . 009 Muscle homogenates contain , in addition to muscle , nerve terminals , Schwann cells , and blood vessels and connective tissues where Slit2 may be expressed  . To demonstrate that Slit2 is expressed in muscle cells and the expression is regulated by Ctnnb1 , we transfected C2C12 myoblasts with HA-tagged Ctnnb1 and resulting myotubes were subjected to Western blotting for endogenous Slit2 . As shown in Figure 5C , elevating Ctnnb1 level increased the expression of endogenous Slit2 in a dose-dependent manner . This result indicates that Ctnnb1 stimulates the expression of Slit2 in muscle cells . Ctnnb1 regulates gene expression by binding to the Tcf4/Lef1 transcription factors  . We identified several putative Tcf4/Lef1-binding sites in the 5′UTR of the Slit2 gene using ChIP-MAPPER  . To determine whether Ctnnb1 in fact binds to these sites , we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation  assay using C2C12 myotubes . DNA fragments associated with Ctnnb1 were immunoprecipitated with anti-Ctnnb1 antibody and subjected to PCR using primers that flank these two regions  . As shown in Figure 5E , a specific band was detected using the primers  , suggesting that Ctnnb1 is associated with the Tcf4 sites . In contrast , no band was detected using the primers  , although the primers were able to detect a band in input , suggesting that the Tcf4 and Lef1 sites in this region may not be able to bind to Ctnnb1 . Together , these results suggest that Ctnnb1 binds to the promoter region of the Slit2 gene to promote its expression in muscle cells . Having demonstrated that Slit2 is a target of Ctnnb1-regulated transcription in muscles , we wanted to determine if overexpressing Slit2 in muscles was able to rescue presynaptic deficits in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice . To this end , we generated a transgenic mouse , ACTA1-Slit2 , which expressed Flag-Slit2 under the control of the ACTA1 promoter  . The ACTA1 promoter drives muscle-specific expression at embryonic day 9 . 5   and has been useful to study NMJ assembly  . The transgene Flag-Slit2 was expressed in muscles of ACTA1-Slit2 mice , but not muscles of control mice  . Flag-Slit2 expression was muscle-specific and not detectable in other tissues including the spinal cord  . Interestingly , many of presynaptic morphological deficits of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice were rescued by Slit2 , including reduced nerve terminal coverage   , reduced vesicle density  , and reduced active zones  . While the number of nerve terminals and synaptic cleft width in either ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mutant or ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::ACTA1-Slit2 rescue mice are not affected  . These results indicate that overexpressing Slit2 in muscles was sufficient to diminish presynaptic structural deficits that are caused by muscle Ctnnb1 deficiency , in agreement with the notion that Slit2 acts downstream of Ctnnb1 . To test this hypothesis further , we characterized neuromuscular transmission of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::ACTA1-Slit2 mice . Loss of Ctnnb1 in muscles resulted in reduced mEPP frequency but not amplitude   . Remarkably , mEPP frequency in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/−::ACTA1-Slit2 mice was higher than that of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice , suggesting again that the vesicle release deficit was rescued by muscle expression of Slit2 . The rescue effect of nerve terminal structure and function appeared to be specific because overexpression of Slit2 in muscles had no effect on mislocation of primary nerve branches , reduced number of secondary branches , and increased length of secondary branches  . The effects of muscle expression of Slit2 on post-synaptic deficits were mixed . Ablation of Ctnnb1 in muscles  enlarges AChR clusters and increased the central band area where AChR clusters are distributed  . Slit2 muscle expression had no effect on AChR cluster length or area of ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice  . However , the enlarged central band area where AChR clusters are distributed in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice was reduced  . Together , these observations indicate muscle-specific expression of Slit2 was able to rescue presynaptic structural and functional deficits at nerve terminals . Slit2 overexpression increased synaptophysin staining at the NMJ . Arrows indicate NMJs with synaptophysin; arrowheads indicate NMJ with reduced synaptophysin . NMJ , neuromuscular junction . Generation of ACTA1-Slit2 transgenic mice . Flag-Slit2 subcloned downstream of ACTA1 promoter used for the generation of ACTA1-Slit2 transgenic mice . Breeding scheme to generate ACTA1-Slit2 mice . Transgenic Slit2 expression was detected in the diaphragm muscles of ACTA1-Slit2 mice . ACTA1-Slit2 partially rescues ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− axon arborization defects . Rescue of nerve terminal deficits by ACTA1-Slit2 . Rescue of nerve terminal morphology . Asterisks , active zones; SBL , synaptic basal lamina; N , nerve terminals; M , muscle fibers; SC , Schwann cells; SVs , synaptic vesicles . 013 The finding that muscle expression of Slit2 is sufficient to increase vesicle numbers and active zones in Ctnnb1-deficient mice suggested to us that Slit2 may be synaptogenic . Once released from muscles , Slit2 may be concentrated at the NMJ , like muscle-expressed AChE  . To test these hypotheses , we stained muscles with anti-Slit2 antibody . As shown in Figure 8A , the immunoreactivity co-localized with R-BTX and synaptophysin  , indicating that Slit2 is enriched in synaptic basal lamina  . To determine whether concentrated Slit2 was able to induce nerve terminal differentiation , we expressed Slit2 in HEK293 cells  . Purified Slit2 was immobilized on fluorescently conjugated latex microspheres  , which were then incubated with spinal cord explant  in culture  . 62% of Slit2-beads were positive for synaptophysin , whereas , in contrast , only 18 . 47% of controls were synaptophysin-positive   . Moreover , the size of synaptophysin puncta was also increased with Slit2-conjugated beads , compared with controls  . Together , these results suggest that immobilized Slit2 may be sufficient to induce synaptophysin clusters of cultured spinal cord explant . Slit2 was enriched at the NMJ and induced synaptophysin puncta of spinal cord explants . P12 tibilalis anterior muscles stained with R-BTX  , anti-neurofilament antibody  , and anti-Slit2 antibody  . Detection of Flag-Slit2 in condition medium of transfected HEK293 cells . Increased synaptophysin puncta co-localization with Flag-Slit2-conjugated beads . 014 Many molecules have been identified to regulate presynaptic differentiation at the NMJ . For example , muscle-derived FGF 7/10/22 and collagens IV and XIII were shown to induce synaptic vesicle clusters at nerve terminals or regulate presynaptic maturation  . In Integrinβ1 muscle-specific mutant mice , nerve terminal arborization and differentiation are abnormal  . Lrp4 and MuSK were shown to be critical for presynaptic differentiation independently  . Previously , we demonstrated that Ctnnb1 in muscle is critical for the differentiation of motor nerve terminals  . In this paper , we dissected out which functions of muscle Ctnnb1 is critical by an in vivo transgenic approach . We showed that muscle overexpression of the Ctnnb1 mutant without the TAD was unable to rescue the presynaptic deficits of Ctnnb1 mutation , indicating that the transcription regulation is critical for muscle Ctnnb1 to control presynaptic differentiation . On the other hand , the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 is dispensable . These results suggest that muscle Ctnnb1 is likely to regulate presynaptic differentiation by controlling the expression of muscle-derived proteins . This notion was supported by the observations that Ctnnb1 and Wnt signaling reporter were higher in synaptic nuclei at the NMJ than those in extra-synaptic areas . We reasoned that such a protein is secretable or has a transmembrane domain and its expression is down-regulated in Ctnnb1 mutant muscle . A screen for proteins that fulfill these criteria led to the identification of Slit2 . We showed , first , that Ctnnb1 associates with Tcf/Lef cis-elements in the promoter region of the Slit2 gene . Second , Slit2 expression in muscle cells is promoted by elevating Ctnnb1 . Slit2 was concentrated at the NMJ . Third , transgenic mice expressing Slit2 specifically in the muscle were able to diminish presynaptic deficits by Ctnnb1 mutation , including poor innervation , reduced vesicle density and active zone , and depressed mEPP . Finally , Slit2 immobilized on beads was able to induce the synaptophysin puncta of axons of spinal cord explants . Together , these observations suggest that Slit2 serves as a factor utilized by muscle Ctnnb1 to direct presynaptic differentiation . Slit2 is a member of the Slit family of secreted glycoproteins , which serve as repulsive cues for axons of various neurons  , as regulators to promote axonal and dendritic branching  , and as repellants for neuron migration  . A previous work showed that motor neurons use Slit2 to promote their axon fasciculation by an autocrine or juxtaparacrine mechanism  . In Slit2 mutant mice , motor nerves prematurely defasciculate into smaller bundlers in various muscles , unlike those in wild type that stay in compact fascicle until they reach the middle of muscle fibers . NMJ morphology at gross anatomic level appears to be normal in Slit2 mutant mice  . We show that Slit2 is produced by muscle cells in a manner dependent on Ctnnb1 . Remarkably , Slit2 , when immobilized on beads , was synaptogenic—to promote the formation and enlargement of synaptophysin-positive punta . Soluble Slit2 did not have this effect , suggesting that the effect requires local , high concentration as many synaptogenic proteins do  . This high concentration in vivo may be achieved by its enrichment at the NMJ , probably due to the involvement of the laminin-G domain of Slit2's extracellular region . The molecular mechanism of Slit2's synaptogenic effect warrants future investigation . Interestingly , the extracellular region of Slit2 has four leucine-rich repeats  -11-residue sequence rich in leucines at defined positions  . The presynaptic deficits in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice can be grouped into two . This observation suggests that the ‘trophic’ activity of limb buds or muscles identified in the classic limb bud removal experiment is mediated by a Ctnnb1-independent mechanism . Interestingly , Slit2 muscle expression was able to rescue the second group of presynaptic deficits . Besides Slit2 , several other secretable factors were found lower in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− muscles . Their function in NMJ formation may be limited or opposite of the hypothetic factor downstream of muscle Ctnnb1 . For example , Mmp9 and Cxcl15 mutant mice are viable and presumably have normal NMJ function  , excluding their involvement in the Ctnnb1 regulation . Hgf was shown to be necessary for motor neuron survival  ; however , the number of motor neurons was not reduced in ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice or in mice overexpressing Ctnnb1 in muscles  . β1-Integrin in muscle is known to be required for NMJ formation  . In particular , axons in β1-Integrin mutant mice failed to respect muscle boundaries and grew onto the tendon organ . However , they do not have nerve defasciculation defects as observed in Ctnnb1-mutant mice . These results do not support a possible involvement of these factors in muscle Ctnnb1 regulation of presynaptic differentiation . It is worthy pointing out that Slit2 overexpression in muscles has no effect on deficits involving primary and secondary branches . Therefore , presynaptic differentiation may be regulated by multiple factors derived from the skeletal muscle . Whether Ctnnb1 regulation of presynaptic differentiation is downstream of Wnts is unclear . Ctnnb1 conditional KO mice were generated by crossing floxed Ctnnb1   with ACTA1-Cre transgenic mice that were generously provided by Dr . Melki , to generate the ACTA1-Ctnnb1−/− mice which lacked Ctnnb1 in skeletal muscles . For the rescue experiments , three loxP-STOP-loxP  -Ctnnb1 transgenic mice  were generated . Ctnnb1TV-AA and Ctnnb1∆TAD  were generated using PCR . HA-tagged wild type and mutants were subcloned into the XhoI and NotI sites of pCCALL2  vector to generate LSL-Ctnnb1 or mutant mice . LSL-transgenic mice were crossed with Ctnnb1fl/+ to generate Ctnnb1fl/+;LSL-Ctnnb1 or mutant mice . To generate ACTA1-Slit2 mice , Flag-Slit2 was subcloned into pBSX-ACTA1 as described previously  . Muscles were lysed in modified RIPA buffer ( 50 mM Tris–HCl , pH 7 . 3%Tween20 overnight at 4°C and then with primary antibodies in 2% milk in PBS-Tween buffer: Ctnnb1   ; Slit2   ; HA   ; Flag  ; GFP  ; Cre  ; β-actin  . Mouse muscle C2C12 myoblasts were propagated and induced to form myotubes as described previously  . C2C12 myotubes were cultured on gelatin-coated 6-well dish , transfected with HA-Ctnnb1 , were washed twice with PBS and then incubated in 1% formaldehyde in PBS at room temperature for 10 min . The resulting supernatant was incubated with anti-Ctnnb1 antibody at 4°C overnight , when salmon sperm DNA-protein A-agarose beads  was added . Primers for the two TCF4/ LEF1-binding regions were as follows; Slit2  - 5′-GTCCC CTTTA GGATC GCG-3′/5′-CAGCG GGAGA ACGAG G-3′ and Slit2  -5′-AGAGA AGGTT GAAAA CACTA CTCCC-3′/5′-TGAAA TAGAT CTGCC TCCGT G-3′ . 6 days after plating , the explants are subjected to incubating with Slit2-conjugated beads  . HEK293 cells were transfected with Flag-Slit2 or control empty Flag vector , to produce Flag-Slit2 and control conditioned media , respectively . Beads were re-suspended in 200 μl of ice-cold PBS with protease inhibitors and incubated with Flag-Slit2 or control conditioned media  overnight on a rotating shaker at 4°C . Flag-Slit2-conjugated neutravidin microspheres were isolated by spinning at 5000 rpm at 4°C . 
Force transduction at cell-cell adhesions regulates tissue development , maintenance and adaptation . Applying this technology to spontaneously-forming adherent epithelial cell clusters , we found that basal force fluctuations were coupled to E-cadherin localization at the level of individual cell-cell junctions . At the multi-cellular scale , cell-cell force exchange depended on the cell position within a cluster , and was adaptive to reconfigurations due to cell divisions or positional rearrangements . Importantly , force transmission through a cell required coordinated modulation of cell-matrix adhesion and actomyosin contractility in the cell and its neighbors . Tissues undergo continuous rearrangements that require tightly balanced exchanges of mechanical forces between individual cells through cadherin-mediated cell–cell junctions . Nevertheless , it is yet unclear how the magnitude and length scale of cell–cell force transmission are modulated dynamically as a function of cell position and topological changes within a cellular ensemble . We developed a method that utilizes high-resolution traction force microscopy  and time-lapse live cell microscopy to quantify cell–cell mechanical interactions in dynamic multi-cellular clusters , while maintaining the sub-cellular resolution needed to measure force exchange at the level of individual junctions . Our method expanded upon several pioneering studies , which inferred cell–cell force transmission from the regional imbalance of traction forces in cell pairs and three-cell clusters in linear configurations  , by now providing the time and sub-cellular resolution needed to derive the spatiotemporal coordination of force exchanges in larger cell groups as well as the coupling of force and protein dynamics at individual adherens junctions . To achieve reconstruction of forces at individual cell–cell junctions and in cell clusters of generic configurations , we incorporated the thin-plate modeling approach of cells and finite element analysis of the plate deformation that was utilized by other studies to infer intercellular interactions in entire cell sheets  . Using this assay , we quantitatively mapped the forces transmitted through individual cell–cell junctions of dynamic MCF10A epithelial cell clusters of various sizes and configurations over time . Our results revealed that the spatial distributions and dynamics of basal cell–cell force transmission correlated with morphogenetic events such as cell divisions . Expanding our approach to temporal force fluctuation analysis at the length scale of a cell , we found that force propagation through cells can be intercepted by cell anchorage to the extracellular matrix and by actomyosin contraction . Our first step in implementing high-resolution quantification of cell–cell forces built on the force-balancing principle was introduced in previous studies  . The principle states that traction forces exerted by a single cell , or by a cluster of cells , are in mechanical equilibrium with the extracellular substrate . Hence , the traction forces integrated over the footprint of a single cell or a cell cluster must be equal to zero  . Following from this , if the integrated traction force over the footprint of an individual cell within a cell cluster is non-zero , other cells in the cluster must balance it by force transmission through cell–cell adhesions . Thus , the residual traction force for a particular cell within a cluster determines the vectorial sum of external forces this cell experiences through cell–cell adhesions  . In the case of a cell pair , each cell has one interface . Therefore , the residual forces associated with each of the two cells are—within the noise limits of traction force reconstruction—of equal magnitudes but opposite directions and indicate the force exchanged through that interface . Calculation of cell–cell forces from traction forces . Single cells and cell clusters  exert traction forces on the substrate ( red vectors; T⇀  ) . Integration of traction forces over the footprint  of a single cell  or an entire cell cluster  yields a balanced net force of 0 . In cell pairs and clusters with a ‘tree-like’ topology  , forces exchanged at each cell–cell junction can be determined by partitioning the cluster into two sub-networks and calculating the residual force required to balance the traction forces integrated over the footprint of each sub-network . In cell clusters with a ‘loop’ topology  , individual cell–cell junctions do not fully partition the cluster into disjoint sub-networks . In such cases , force transmission within a cell cluster can be calculated based on a model that describes the cluster as a thin-plate in mechanical equilibrium with the traction forces . 003 Whereas previous studies examined cell clusters with two or at most three cells in a linear configuration  , the force balancing principle readily expands to the calculation of cell–cell forces in larger cell clusters with linear or ‘tree-like’ topologies  . To determine the neighborhood topology of cells , we defined a cell cluster as a graphical network , where each cell is represented as a node and each junction between two cells is represented by an edge connecting two nodes of the network . In this case , the forces at any cell–cell interface can be determined by calculating the residual forces over the cellular footprints defined by the two sub-networks  . Statistical analyses of our experimental data indicate that the median error of force calculations based on the force-balancing principle was ∼14% of the expected force magnitudes  . Comparison of cell–cell force calculations by force-balancing principle and by finite element modeling  . Comparison of cell–cell force magnitudes as measured by the force balancing method  or FEM  vs the two independent measurements at each interface as predicted by force balancing calculations  . Angular deviations between cell–cell forces as measured by the force balancing method  or the FEM  and the two independent measurements at each interface as predicted by the force balancing calculations  ( outliers  with angular deviations >90 degrees are not shown in the plot ) . Relative error in cell–cell force measurements by the force balancing method  or the FEM method  . n = total number of measurements pooled from N distinct cell–cell junctions , with each junction having been measured over multiple time points . 004 Cell clusters may also adopt a ‘loop’ topology . This means that cell–cell junctions are configured in a mechanically redundant system , and the forces exchanged at each junction cannot be simply resolved using the force-balancing principle . To resolve the relative contributions of redundant junctions to the force balance in cell clusters with a ‘loop’ topology , we modeled the cell cluster as a thin-plate in mechanical equilibrium with the substrate . Thus we could calculate force exchange profiles along cell–cell interfaces  at any time point of a time-lapse video  . Quantification of cell–cell force exchange in a 3-cell cluster with changing topology . Schematic of the thin-plate model implemented to determine the stress profile along a cell–cell junction . Sign-inverted traction forces  are applied to the thin-plate model to generate an internal stress distribution of cells 1 and 2 that is consistent with the measured traction forces  . The internal stress distribution is then used to calculate the force profile along the cell–cell interface a1 , 2  . Images show application of the approach to a cell pair . The cell–cell interface is marked by E-cadherin-GFP  . Regularized FTTC was used for traction force reconstruction . Image of an E-cadherin-GFP-expressing 3-cell cluster with ‘tree-like’ topology , which permits the calculation of force exchanges at each cell–cell junction by both the force-balancing principle and the thin-plate FEM modeling . Segmentation of cells in the cluster , overlaid on the traction force field  and an inverted fluorescence image of the cell cluster . Longer vectors in cell centers indicate residual traction forces for individual cells . Cell–cell stresses  were calculated from sign-inverted traction forces . Dashed arrows at graph edge midpoints indicate the cell–cell force vector obtained from the force-balancing principle . Solid arrows of the same color show the corresponding cell–cell force vector derived from the thin-plate model . The same cluster as  at a different time point , when a junction formed between cell 1 and cell 2 . This yields a loop topology preventing the calculation of cell–cell forces at junctions 1 , 2 , and 3 based on the force-balancing principle . Quantification of cell–cell force exchange in a 6-cell cluster with changing topology . Image of an E-cadherin-GFP-expressing 6-cell cluster with ‘tree-like’ topology , which permits the calculation of force exchanges at each cell–cell junction by both the force-balancing principle and the thin-plate FEM modeling . Segmentation of cells in the cluster , overlaid on the traction force field  and an inverted fluorescence image of the cell cluster . Longer vectors in cell centers indicate residual traction forces for individual cells . Cell–cell stresses  were calculated from inverted traction forces . Dashed arrows at graph edge midpoints indicate the cell–cell force vector obtained from the force-balancing principle . Solid arrows of the same color show the corresponding cell–cell force vector derived from the FEM . The same cluster as  at a different time point , when two new junctions existed between cell 1 and cell 3 , and cell 1 and cell 4 , resulting in a loop topology . Cell–cell forces at junctions 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , and 7 can no longer be derived based on the force-balancing principle . Force exchange between E-cadherin-GFP-expressing MCF10A cell pair quantified at sub-junctional resolution using FEM; related to Figure 3A . Measured traction stresses  were inverted for the calculation of mechanical stress distribution within the cell pair based on the thin-plate model , and the calculated cell internal stresses were integrated along the cell–cell junction to obtain the transmitted cell–cell stress profile along the junction  . The cell–cell junction is outlined by the red line , while the boundary of the cell pair is outlined by the black line  . The blue outline represents the dilated cluster mask employed to capture the entire traction force field generated by the cell pair . 007 We tested the validity of the thin-plate model in cell clusters with a ‘tree-like’ topology , where the force exchange at cell–cell interfaces could be determined both by the force-balancing approach and integration of the FEM-predicted stress profile along the same interface  . This implies that the inaccuracy in FEM-predicted forces arises from the same sources of error as the inaccuracy in force balance-predicted forces , which are uncertainties in the traction force reconstruction . Thus , neither the simplifying approximation of the cell cluster by a homogeneous thin-plate nor the numerical solution of the model introduced substantial error when predicting cell–cell forces in ‘tree-like’ topologies . Although both the force-balancing-principle approach and the FEM approach appeared to have similar accuracy in determining cell–cell forces , application of the thin-plate model permits the analysis of force exchange in clusters that change between a ‘tree-like’ and a ‘loop’ topology  and is thus a more generalized approach to quantify cell–cell force transmission . Force exchanges in a three-cell MCF10A cluster with changing topology; related to Figure 3 . Cell–cell stresses  and traction forces  overlaid on fluorescence images . The cell–cell junctions are outlined in red . Vectors originating from cell centers reflect the residual traction forces of each cell . Network representation of the cluster indicating the residual traction force of each cell and the reconstructed cell–cell forces along junctions . Solid thick color vectors represent integrated cell–cell forces calculated using the FEM approach; dotted thin color vectors represent cell–cell forces calculated using the force-balancing principle . Force exchanges in a six-cell MCF10A cluster with changing topology; related to Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . Cell–cell stresses  and traction forces  overlaid on fluorescence images . The cell–cell junctions are outlined in red . Vectors originating from cell centers reflect the residual traction forces of each cell . Network representation of the cluster indicating the residual traction force of each cell and the reconstructed cell–cell forces along junctions . Solid thick color vectors represent integrated cell–cell forces calculated using the FEM approach; dotted thin color vectors represent cell–cell forces calculated using the force-balancing principle . 009 We first applied our generalized method to study the dynamics and patterns of cell–cell adhesion forces in naturally formed clusters of MCF10A epithelial cells in 2D adherent cultures , including clusters that were undergoing cell divisions  . We found that , as a cell in a cluster entered mitosis , the overall mechanical energy deposited into the substrate by either the entire cluster or the dividing cell transiently decreased  . The overall mechanical energy generated by a cluster or individual cells therein was calculated as the strain energy , that is , the product of traction force and substrate deformation , integrated over the footprint of a cluster or a cell . Force fluctuations in cell clusters during cell division . A 4-cell cluster undergoing two cell divisions  . Vectors originating from the center of each cell reflect the residual traction force of the cell . Bottom row , graphical network representations including residual traction force for each cell and junctional cell–cell forces  . Total strain energy on the substrate exerted by the cell cluster and cells 1 and 3 before , during , and after the cell division events . Cell–cell force magnitudes exerted by cells 1 and 3 on each of their cell–cell junctions . Sum of cell–cell force magnitudes exerted by the whole cluster and cells 1 and 3 before , during , and after the cell division events . Force dynamics during cell divisions in cluster shown in Figure 4 . Strain energies exerted by individual cells . Fluctuations of cell–cell forces at individual junctions . Total cell–cell forces exerted by individual cells . Force exchange in a four-cell MCF10A cluster with two cell divisions; related to Figure 4 . E-cadherin-GFP fluorescence images overlaid with traction forces  . Tight cluster mask  and dilated  cell outlines are also overlaid . Vectors originating from cell centers reflect the residual traction forces of each cell . Network representation of the cluster indicating the residual traction force of each cell and the reconstructed cell–cell forces along junctions . 012 Each mitotic event correlated with a dramatic decrease in the forces , which the dividing cell exchanged with its neighbors  , suggesting that mitosis is accompanied by weakening of not only cell–matrix adhesions but also cell–cell adhesions . Interestingly , during mitotic events , the sum of cell–cell force magnitudes over all junctions in the cell cluster remained constant before increasing to a higher plateau value  . This suggested that the loss of cell–cell forces at the junctions of the dividing cell was balanced at other junctions in the cluster  . For example , during division of cell 1 in Figure 4A–B , the two connecting graphical edges , edges 1 and 2 , exhibited decreases in cell–cell forces  . In contrast , edge 5 , which was not directly connected to cell 1 , experienced an increase in force transmission  . Similarly , during the division of cell 3  , there was an increase in cell–cell force at edge 6  , which was not connected to the dividing cell . These results show that , during major morphological changes , force fluctuations at individual cell–cell junctions can be dynamically compensated by forces at other cell junctions . Our time-resolved force measurements demonstrated that cell–cell forces at individual junctions fluctuate over time , both during interphase and cell divisions . We thus investigated whether and how basal force variations were coupled to the localization and recruitment of the molecular components of cell–cell junctions . We focused first on E-cadherin , the backbone of adherens junctions for epithelial cells . We correlated the E-cadherin-GFP intensities integrated along each cell–cell junction with the force measured for each junction and observed a positive and statistically significant correlation  . Both perturbations resulted in a significant reduction in cell–cell force measurements  . These results support the model that the junctional recruitment of E-cadherin is coupled to the cell–cell adhesion forces  . Correlation of calculated cell–cell forces with E-cadherin-GFP junctional localization . Correlation between E-cadherin-GFP intensity integrated along cell–cell interfaces and the corresponding interfacial force  , for cell clusters cultured on 8 kPa and 35 kPa substrates . Correlation coefficients were calculated from n measurements from N distinct cell–cell junctions pooled from multiple independent experiments . Forces between cells treated with neutral and blocking antibodies against E-cadherin compared to forces before treatment . Bottom: cell–cell forces between cells transfected with siCTNNA1 compared to those between control cells . N = number of cell–cell junctions measured; n = total number of measurements from N junctions . This suggested that the coupling of force and E-cadherin recruitment observed at the level of entire cell–cell junctions could be translated to a sub-junctional length scale . Correlation between calculated cell–cell forces at sub-junctional resolution and local E-cadherin-GFP intensities . E-cadherin-GFP intensity along a cell–cell junction overlaid by cell–cell stresses  calculated by FEM  . Correlation between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and local calculated cell–cell forces for cell clusters cultured on 8 kPa and 35 kPa substrates . Correlation coefficients were calculated from n measurements from N distinct cell–cell junctions pooled from 5 independent experiments . Median correlation coefficients for correlation between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell forces calculated from sub-junctional segments of various lengths  . Local E-cadherin-GFP intensities were then randomized within the sub-junctional segments of various lengths and correlated with calculated cell–cell forces from the corresponding segments  . Results were calculated from 77 junctions of 14 cell clusters cultured on 8 kPa substrates . Distribution of cell–cell junction lengths of 77 junctions , each measured over multiple time points . Distribution of correlation coefficients between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell forces calculated from junctions of different lengths . Distribution of correlation coefficients between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell forces randomized within junctions of different lengths . n = total number of measurements from 77 junctions of 14 cell clusters cultured on 8 kPa substrates . Similar results were found for cell clusters cultured on 35 kPa substrates  . Correlation between calculated cell–cell stresses and local E-cadherin-GFP intensities along junctions of cell clusters cultured on 35 kPa substrates . Median coefficient of correlation between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell stresses calculated from sub-junctional segments of various lengths  . This length-scale may also be considered an upper limit of resolution for the cell–cell stress calculation by FEM . Autocorrelation of E-cadherin-GFP intensities along cell–cell junctions . Distribution of cell–cell junction lengths . Distribution of correlation coefficients between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell stresses calculated from junctions of different lengths . Distribution of correlation coefficients between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell stresses randomized within junctions of different lengths . n = total number of measurements from 41 junctions of 10 cell clusters . Relationship between cell–cell stress and junction length . Cell–cell stresses as a function of junction lengths for control cell clusters on 8 kPa substrates . Distribution of cell–cell stresses for junctions of all lengths and junctions with lengths less than or equal to 10 µm . Only junctions with a minimal degree of connectivity =1 were used in both plots to avoid potential false attribution of cell–cell stress from adjoining junctions . 016 To validate our ability to measure cell–cell force exchanges with sub-cellular resolution , and to determine an approximate length scale over which force and E-cadherin recruitment are coupled , we divided each cell junction into shorter sub-junctional segments of different lengths and scrambled the intensity profiles within the segments . 5 as the length scale over which force exchange between cells and E-cadherin recruitment are coupled . This length scale is consistent with the length scale over which E-cadherin-GFP proteins are modulated along cell–cell junctions in our system , which we measured to be 13 µm based on autocorrelation of E-cadherin-GFP intensities along the cell junctions  . Similar values of cadherin intensity fluctuations along cell junctions have previously been reported for mature cell–cell adhesions  . Thus , our results suggest that the measured length scale of force–E-cadherin coupling is likely related to the spatial organization of E-cadherin along the cell–cell junctions and not a resolution limit of the FEM analysis . Importantly , the value ∼10 μm is significantly less than the length of the majority of the cell–cell junctions in the MCF10A clusters  . Even for junctions less than or equal to 10 µm , we were able to detect cell–cell stresses . In fact , the distribution of cell–cell stress magnitudes for these short junctions is similar to that for junctions of all lengths , indicating that our analysis of cell–cell stress is not limited by cell junction lengths  . Together , these analyses demonstrate that the FEM approach is able to extract significant sub-junctional variations in cell–cell adhesion forces . We also noted that for segments >40 µm , the correlation between local E-cadherin-GFP intensities and cell–cell stress measurements dramatically increased  . Since segments of this length could only be defined in extended , more mature cell–cell junctions  , we suspected that this trend could reflect a particular property of this more stable population of cell interfaces within the clusters . Indeed , we found that the median as well as the entire distribution of correlations between local cell–cell stress magnitudes and E-cadherin-GFP intensities increased with junction length  . Our measurements of cell–cell force fluctuations during mitosis also revealed spatial patterns of force transduction between multiple connected cells . When junctions were re-established after mitosis , those embedded in the cell cluster had lower force transmission compared to junctions at the cluster periphery  . To further examine the spatial distribution of cell–cell forces , we categorized each cell in a cell cluster by the number of its neighbors or its degree of connectivity   . With increasing k , the sum of cell–cell forces increased  , which indicates that the cumulative force a cell experiences through its cell–cell adhesions increases with the number of connected neighbors . Strikingly , the increase in cumulative cell–cell forces for higher k-values was not paralleled by stronger cell–matrix traction forces  . Thus , contrary to the conclusions drawn from examining cell doublets  , the generation and exchange of forces at cell–cell junctions can be decoupled from cell–matrix traction force generation , especially in larger cell clusters where cells have higher k values . This result is further supported by the observation that focal adhesions and traction forces are primarily localized at the periphery of cell clusters  , consistent with a previous report  . Spatial organization of cell–cell forces in clusters . The sum of cell–cell force magnitudes  and traction force magnitudes  for cells connected to 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 neighbors  . Force magnitudes at individual cell–cell junctions , classified according to the minimal degree of connectivity  . Stress at individual cell–cell junctions , classified according to the minimal degree of connectivity . n = total number of measurements from N distinct cells or junctions . Localization of focal adhesions and cell–cell adhesions in MCF10A cell clusters . Focal adhesions in a representative MCF10A cell pair  and 4-cell cluster visualized by immunostaining of paxillin , cell–cell junctions visualized by E-cadherin-GFP . 018 Although cell–matrix traction might not be directly coupled to cell–cell force transmission , it did nevertheless affect the distribution of cell–cell forces in cell clusters . We examined the forces transmitted through individual cell–cell junctions by assigning each junction , or graphical edge , the two k values of the two cells it connected . The cell–cell junctions were then grouped according to the lesser of the two k values  . In general , cells on stiffer  substrates exerted higher traction forces compared to cells on softer  substrates  . Interestingly , the dependence of traction force on matrix compliance was reflected in different trends of force transmission vs minimal k . On 8 kPa substrates , cell–cell forces at individual junctions were independent of the minimal k values  , whereas the cell–cell stresses , calculated by normalizing cell–cell force to junction length , increased for junctions with higher minimal k values  . In contrast , on 35 kPa substrates , the forces as well as stresses exerted on individual cell–cell junctions decreased with increasing minimal k of the junction  . Hence , for cell clusters on the stiffer substrate , the cell–cell forces were transmitted predominantly between cluster-peripheral cells and not across the cluster center . Thus , the spatial pattern of cell–cell force transmission is modulated by the mechanical microenvironment . To obtain further insight into the spatial organization of cell–cell forces , we investigated the dynamic transmission of forces through cells . We performed pairwise cross-correlation analyses of forces between opposing cell–cell junctions and between forces at cell–cell junctions and cell–matrix adhesions  . This analysis is based on the following expectations of cell mechanics: if forces are transmitted across a cell without coupling to cell–matrix adhesions , the forces at the two considered junctions should fluctuate with similar magnitudes and opposite directions  , whereas the fluctuations of cell–cell and cell–matrix forces should not be correlated  . The opposite is true if forces exerted at one cell–cell junction are not transmitted across a cell but instead are transmitted to the cell substrate . Dynamic force transmission through cells . Schematic of temporal cross-correlation analysis of force fluctuations at opposing cell–cell junctions . To determine the extent of force transmission from one cell–cell junction across a cell  to the next junction or to the cell substrate , force fluctuations at one cell–cell interface i of the cell-of-interest are correlated with the fluctuations of the vector sum of cell–cell forces at all remaining cell–cell junctions of this cell or with the fluctuations of the negative residual traction force of the cell , respectively . Cross-correlation analysis results for control cells on 8 kPa or 35 kPa substrates and for cells with downregulation of paxillin  , talin-1  , or myosin-IIA  in mosaic cell clusters on 8 kPa substrates . Mosaic cell cluster with two siTln1-treated cells  . Time courses of x-component of junctional forces  and residual traction force  in target cell 1  . E-cadherin-GFP-expressing cell pairs without  or with paxillin downregulation  . Cell–cell force magnitudes at junctions between control or siPax cells . Sum of traction force magnitudes exerted by individual control or paxillin-downregulated cells in cell pairs . E-cadherin-GFP-expressing cell pairs without  or with talin-1 downregulation  . Cell–cell force magnitudes at junctions between control or siTln1 cells . Sum of traction force magnitudes exerted by individual control or talin-1-downregulated cells in cell pairs . Cell-cell force magnitudes at junctions between control or myosin-IIA-downregulated cells . Sum of traction force magnitudes exerted by individual control or myosin-IIA-downregulated cells in cell pairs . Sum of cell–cell force magnitudes at individual control or talin-1-downregulated cells with various degrees of connectivity . Sum of cell–cell force magnitudes at individual control or myosin-IIA-downregulated cells with various degrees of connectivity . N = number of distinct junctions or cells measured; n = total number of measurements from N junctions or cells . 020 For control MCF10A cells , the coupling between cell–cell forces and cell–matrix was stronger than the coupling between cell–cell forces at opposing cell junctions , irrespective of substrate stiffness  , indicating that forces exerted at cell–cell junctions were only weakly transmitted through a cell . However , our data could be reconciled with this observation if long-range force transmission is an active process: forces exerted on a cell activate signaling pathways and contractile machineries that are responsible for transducing force to neighboring cells . In this model , each individual cell in a cell cluster , though linked with one another , functions independently with the ability to promote or attenuate force transduction . There are two non-exclusive mechanisms that could attenuate force transduction across individual cells: first , forces at cell–cell junctions may be transmitted to the substrate via cell–matrix adhesions , thus intercepting the mechanical link between opposing cell–cell junctions  . Second , each cell may have a basal actomyosin contractility level that is autonomous from extracellular force stimuli and high enough to overcome the cell-external forces  . To examine these two possibilities , we measured cell–cell force transduction in mosaic cell clusters , where control cells were intermixed with cells in which paxillin , talin-1 , or myosin-IIA were downregulated  . Indeed , the traction forces exerted by cells with reduced paxillin or talin-1 were significantly lower than the traction forces of control cells  . In cell pairs in which both cells had paxillin downregulated , forces at the cell–cell junction were unchanged compared to control cell pairs , indicating that paxillin knock-down did not affect cell–cell force transmission  . In talin-1-downregulated cell pairs , although cell–cell forces were lower than those of control cell pairs , cell–cell junction morphology was unaffected , and cell–cell force transmission was restored almost to control levels when the talin-1 downregulated cells were embedded in larger clusters  . Importantly , the correlation between the fluctuations of cell–cell forces in opposing junctions of a paxillin or talin-1 downregulated cell was higher than that between the cell–cell force fluctuations in opposing junctions of control cells  . For talin-1 downregulated cells , which exert very low traction forces  , the correlation between the fluctuations of cell–cell forces in opposing junctions was in addition higher than that between the cell–cell force and traction force fluctuations  . These data showed that the decoupling from the matrix of a cell within a cluster promotes the transmission of forces across the cell , from one cell–cell junction to the next , in support of the force anchoring mechanism as one way a cell may attenuate long-range force transmission . Force exchange in four-cell cluster with mosaic downregulation of talin-1 on 8 kPa substrates; related to Figure 9C–E . E-cadherin-GFP fluorescence images overlaid with traction forces  . Tight cluster mask  and dilated  cell outlines are also overlaid . Vectors originating from cell centers reflect the residual traction forces of each cell . Network representation of the cluster indicating the residual traction force of each cell and the reconstructed cell–cell forces along junctions . 021 The force scrambling mechanism was tested in mosaic cell clusters in which myosin-IIA , an isoform of the non-muscle myosin-II motor protein responsible for generating cell contractility  , was downregulated in one or more cells . In cell pairs in which both cells had downregulated myosin-IIA , the traction forces exerted by the cells , as well as the forces exerted through the cell–cell junctions , were significantly decreased  . Although myosin-IIA downregulation affected cell–cell and cell–matrix mechanotransduction , cell–cell junctions were still able to form in cell clusters , as the cell–cell junction morphology of myosin-IIA downregulated cells remained similar to control cells and cells with downregulated myosin-IIA exerted forces at their cell–cell junctions close to control levels when embedded in larger clusters  . As with talin-1 downregulated cells , cells with myosin-IIA knock-down showed a significant increase in the correlation of force fluctuations at opposing junctions compared to control cells  . This shows that cells with reduced actomyosin contractility act as passive force transducers between other contractile cells in a cluster , consistent with the force scrambling mechanism . Using our generalized cell–cell force measurement and analysis method , we quantified , spatially and temporally , the transmission of mechanical forces through cell–cell junctions of dynamic adherent epithelial clusters . Combined with image analyses of cell–cell junction configurations and rearrangements in the living cell clusters , our data provided unprecedented statistical power and time resolution to address questions regarding force distributions and fluctuations within cell clusters , as well as their coupling to the recruitment of molecular components of adherens junctions  . To our knowledge , the proposed method is the first to resolve cell–cell force transmission dynamically with sub-cellular resolution . In the present study , we validated the resolution of the inferred cell–cell forces by cross-correlation analysis of the spatial force fluctuations with E-cadherin density fluctuations along the junctions . These tests confirmed that despite the simple thin-plate model , cell–cell forces are resolved at the length scale E-cadherin-GFP intensities that fluctuate along the cell junction  . Second , our method relies on E-cadherin-GFP signals for determining the location of cell–cell junctions . Imaging resolutions  as well as diffuse signals in dynamic junctions may affect the precision of determining the cell–cell boundary locations and therefore the accuracy of cell–cell force calculations . It is important to note that increasing cluster size would also increase the error of force measurement , as the error of traction force microscopy sums up during the calculation of cell–cell forces . We have quantified cell–cell force dynamics in naturally forming clusters of up to nine MCF10A cells . Lastly , because the method derives cell–cell forces indirectly through measurement of cell–matrix traction forces , a fundamental assumption is that the measured traction forces fully capture all forces produced by the cells . Thus , the method implicitly neglects the dissipation of forces inside cells , which—in principle—may affect cell–cell junctional forces . Although tissue reorganization has long been known as mechanically regulated , our method provides now the capability to monitor the dynamics of cell–cell junctional force exchanges during various morphogenetic events and thus the ability to correlate the induction and outcome of processes such as cell polarization  , mitotic spindle orientation  , cell migration  , and cell sorting  , not only with putative surrogates of force generation  but also with actual force values . We show that mechanical forces may be balanced during major topology-changing events such as cell division by dynamic redistribution of cell–cell junctional forces within small cell clusters  . The result suggests that force fluctuations at individual cell–cell junctions can be dynamically compensated by forces at other cell junctions . Our method also provides insights into tissue mechanics by revealing that force transmission across a cell cluster is short-ranged , typically on the length scale of one cell diameter , due to the anchoring and scrambling of forces by cell–matrix adhesions and basal actomyosin contractility  . This can be accomplished by spatially coordinating the activation of actomyosin contractility above basal force levels , which yields a significant force exchange between neighboring cells , or by spatially coordinating the de-activation of actomyosin contractility and/or cell–matrix adhesion , which may increase the transduction range of basal force levels beyond one cell diameter . Based on our statistical analysis of over 90 cell clusters and over 250 cell–cell junctions in these clusters , it appeared that intercellular force transmission exhibits distinct spatial patterns in clusters cultured on soft vs stiff substrates , in which cell–cell forces are transmitted along cluster peripheral cells on stiff substrates , but through the cluster center on soft substrates  . We speculate that this may also be a result of the active interplay between cell–cell adhesions , cell–matrix adhesions , and basal actomyosin contractility to transmit , anchor , and scramble forces . As previously reported by the Dufresne group  and shown here in Figure 7 and Figure 8 , focal adhesion numbers and traction force magnitudes are higher along the outer periphery of the cluster , suggesting that cell–cell forces are derived from cell–matrix forces that occur mainly at the cluster periphery . Although it is yet unclear how substrate stiffness precisely regulates cell–matrix adhesions , the cytoskeletal network , and traction force exertion in cell clusters , it has been shown that the differences induced by substrate stiffness can extend multiple cell layers into a cell sheet  . Lastly , our cell–cell force microscopy method allowed us to correlate , in quantitative terms , cell–cell force transmission to intracellular molecular dynamics . Future studies can apply the same approach for analyses of other cell–cell junction molecules , including known force-responsive proteins , such as alpha-catenin  , vinculin  , and Eplin  . For experiments with mosaic cell clusters containing control cells intermixed with cells with knock-down of myosin-IIA or talin-1 , MCF10A-E-cadherin-GFP cells that also expressed H2B-mCherry were used , such that the nuclear marker could serve to distinguish between the control and the knock-down cells . Stably infected cells were selected with puromycin  . Cells were trypsinized with 0 . The force-balancing principle dictates that , in the absence of significant inertial and frictional forces from the cell microenvironment , the traction forces exerted by an adherent cell must be balanced by the cell substrate . Extending this argument beyond single cells , a cell cluster and its substrate must also be in mechanical equilibrium . The integration of the traction force  over the footprint Ωc of the cell cluster thus has to equal zero  . The net traction force over the whole-cell cluster must also equal the sum of the traction forces integrated over the footprint of each individual cell . For example , in the case of a two-cell cluster with cells i and j , the net traction force of the cell pair , which should be zero , will equal the sum of traction forces integrated over the footprints of each of the two cells  . ∫ΩcT⇀  dx⇀=0=∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀+∫ΩjT⇀  dx⇀ Here , T⇀ denotes the traction stress exerted by the cells . In general , cells within a cluster all exert traction forces on the cell substrate . Thus , the integrated traction force for each individual cell within the cluster is non-zero ( i . To maintain a net traction force of zero for the whole cluster , the non-zero integrated traction force of an individual cell must be balanced by a counter force from the neighboring cell  . For a cell i in a cluster , this balancing counter force can be expressed as the negative of its integrated traction force , which we defined as its residual traction force f⇀resi , where f⇀resi=−∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀ . Because the balancing counter force is transmitted by physical interactions between cells through cell–cell junction  , f⇀resi also represents the vectorial sum of all cell–cell forces exerted by cell i on its neighbors . In the case of a two-cell cluster , based on Equation 1:  f⇀i , j=f⇀resi=−∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀=∫ΩjT⇀  dx⇀ Here , f⇀i , j denotes the force exerted by cell i on cell j and f⇀i , j=−f⇀j , i . Hence , by applying the force-balancing principle , we can derive the forces transmitted between two cells based on traction force measurements of the cells within those clusters . The force-balancing principle can be applied to all cell clusters with either a linear configuration or with a ‘tree-like’ configuration  . In these types of cell clusters , an imaginary cut through any of the cell–cell junctions , or edges in the network representation , would divide the cluster into two disconnected cell groups . Therefore , at each of the edges , the cell–cell force transmitted can be obtained by summing up the traction forces over each cell group:  ∫ΩcT⇀  dx⇀=∑i∈g1∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀+∑j∈g2∫ΩjT⇀  dx⇀=0  f⇀g1 , g2=−∑i∈g1∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀=∑j∈g2∫ΩjT⇀  dx⇀ Here , f⇀g1 , g2 denotes the cell–cell force that is transmitted through the interface which connects cell groups g1 and g2 . In our measurements , we calculated f⇀g1 , g2 by taking the mean of the two independent summations of traction forces for the two cell groups:  〈f⇀g1 , g2〉=12  =12 ( ∑i∈g1∫ΩiT⇀  dx⇀−∑j∈g2∫ΩjT⇀  dx⇀ ) By reiterating the imaginary cut through all edges of the cell network , the force transmission at each cell–cell junction of a linear or ‘tree-like’ cell cluster can be determined . While previous studies either missed this generalized method or only applied it to a linear three-cell cluster  , our work has now demonstrated the applicability of this method to many complex cell clusters with three or more cells . To calculate the strain energy of cell j in the cluster , we first calculated the displacement field u⇀j that is associated with the traction forces T⇀ generated by cell j alone . For a cell cluster , this means that forces from one cell will cause substrate deformations outside of its own footprint , for instance underneath the footprint of a neighboring cell . In other words , u⇀  within Ωj is not generated by cell j alone but contains contributions from all cells in the cluster . The above method of calculating cell strain energy accounts for these mechanical subtleties and includes only the cell-own strains in the energy calculation . We do note that the method neglects the energy a cell might have to use to strain the substrate in the presence of other cells . The E-cadherin-GFP fluorescence intensity signal was used to segment the cluster boundary as well as the cluster internal cell–cell interfaces . The largest connected component of the binary image was identified as the cell cluster . Larger holes in the cluster that might arise during cell divisions or when cells join the cluster were not closed and were appropriately treated as cluster external space . The dilation was performed to ensure that all significant traction forces are included in the cell–cell force calculations . Similarly , dividing cells exhibit retraction fibers that are barely detectable in the E-cadherin-GFP channel but seem to exert forces distant to the main cell body . The presence of these traction force vectors outside the cell footprint presents a dilemma: one would ideally want to cut off the thin-plate model at the tight cluster footprint , but then one would lose these ‘external’ forces when setting up the force balance for the cluster . Cell–cell interfaces within cell clusters were drawn by hand to achieve highest reliability of the interface location . The cell position was defined as the center of mass of the cell footprint . The mechanical stress distribution within a cell cluster was inferred by modeling the ventral cell cortex as a deformable thin-plate , whose internal stress field σ  balances the sign-inverted traction forces T⇀  according to Landau and Lifshitz . 5 , reflecting that cell cortices are largely incompressible  . To test the validity of this approach , we compared the cell–cell junctional stresses derived from the PDE solution  to the junctional forces calculated by the force-balancing principle in tree-like structures where the latter approach has a well-defined solution . A more detailed cell model could yield a different stress distribution along the interfaces that may improve the correlation of cell–cell stresses with E-cadherin-GFP intensity as well as the prediction of cell–cell forces in looped configurations . Given a PDE solution predicting the plate-internal stresses , cell–cell junctional forces f⇀m , n transmitted through the interface am , n between any two cells m and n can be calculated as:   i=−∫am , nσikdlk Here ,  i denotes the ith-component of the cell–cell force and dl⇀ defines a vector of length dl located on the cell–cell interface and pointing normal to the interface toward cell n . We used the second approach to calculate the dense force exchange profiles along cell–cell junctions . The error in the traction force measurement is reflected by the inequality  ∫ΩcT⇀  dx⇀≠0 that is , the traction forces integrated over the entire cluster are non-zero . This would imply that the cluster is subjected to an accelerating force resulting in translocation of the cluster . This was done by modeling the cell cluster as a thin , homogeneous , and elastic plate that is set under tension by the traction stress at the cell–substrate interface  . The internal cell-stress distributions were then calculated using the FEM such that the internal stresses were consistent with the measured cellular traction forces  . In the final step , the calculated cluster internal stresses were integrated along each cell–cell interface to obtain transmitted junctional forces . The cells were typically only ∼1 µm thick  , while the lateral dimensions were ∼20 µm . Cells were tracked by a nearest neighbor assignment , that is , by linking cells with minimal distance between their cell centers in consecutive frames  . In case of a cell division , only the closest daughter was linked . The second daughter cell was considered as a new cell starting a new time course . Cell–cell stress values were calculated at every 10th pixel along the cell–cell interfaces using the stress tensor σ:  σINTF , i=σiknk , where σINTF , i is the ith-component of the interface stress and nk is the kth-component of the vector normal to the interface . The average distance of two neighboring cell–cell stress points was 1 . For each cell–cell stress value , a corresponding E-cadherin-GFP intensity value was extracted from the discretized interface curve . If a cell–cell junction was shorter than Δl , it was not considered in the analysis . To precisely quantify long-range force transmission in cell clusters , we performed a cross-correlation analysis of force pairs from two interfaces of a cell . Consider a cell that is surrounded by at least two neighboring cells , denoted as ‘m’ for the ‘middle’ cell  . At any time point , the vectorial sum over all cell–cell and cell–matrix forces has to be balanced . A fluctuation in direction or magnitude of one cell–cell force vector exerted on cell m , say f⇀i , m , thus has to be counterbalanced by an opposite fluctuation of either the traction forces of cell m , f⇀resm=−∫ΩmT⇀  dx⇀ , or by the cell–cell forces at the remaining interfaces of cell m , ∑j≠if⇀j , m . If the cell–cell forces are completely transmitted across cell m , then the cross-correlation between the cell–cell forces should be perfectly anti-correlated , that is , corr  =−1 . At the same time , no correlation between cell–cell force and traction forces should be found: corr  =0 . In the case where cell–cell forces are not transmitted across cell m , the forces should be decoupled , and their correlation should vanish corr  =0 , while the cell–cell and cell traction forces should be anti-correlated: corr  =−1 . This anti-correlation means that the cell–cell force is locally counter-balanced by the cell's traction forces . For example , when considering the correlation of the cell–cell forces , corr  , exerted on cell m , the f⇀1 corresponds to f⇀i , m , f⇀2 corresponds to ∑j≠if⇀j , m , and f⇀3 corresponds to f⇀resm , subject to the force balance f⇀i , m+∑j≠if⇀j , m+f⇀resm=0 . m and its dependent functions , for calculating strain energies of the cell cluster  , cutOutForceFieldManyCells . m and its dependent functions , for segmentation of cell clusters and cell-cell junctions  , and clusterAnalysis . m and its dependent functions , for tracking of cells and cell-cell junctions  , and for calculation of cell-cell forces and stresses using the force-balancing and thin-plate FEM approaches  . 
The polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin protein causes Huntington’s disease . Here , we investigated structural and biochemical properties of huntingtin and the effect of the polyglutamine expansion using various biophysical experiments including circular dichroism , single-particle electron microscopy and cross-linking mass spectrometry . Huntingtin is likely composed of five distinct domains and adopts a spherical α-helical solenoid where the amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal regions fold to contain a circumscribed central cavity . Interestingly , we showed that the polyglutamine expansion increases α-helical properties of huntingtin and affects the intramolecular interactions among the domains . Our work delineates the structural characteristics of full-length huntingtin , which are affected by the polyglutamine expansion , and provides an elegant solution to the apparent conundrum of how the extreme amino-terminal polyglutamine tract confers a novel property on huntingtin , causing the disease . Huntingtin is the entire large protein product  of the Huntingtin gene  . Huntingtin has a segment of polyglutamine near its amino terminus  that is encoded by a polymorphic CAG trinucleotide repeat . Consistent with genetic studies in distinct CAG-expansion neurodegenerative disorders and CAG knock-in mice that replicate the HD mutation , the mechanism that triggers the disease process that leads to the characteristic vulnerability of striatal neurons in HD is thought to involve a novel gain of function that is conferred on mutant huntingtin by the expanded polyglutamine segment  . By analogy with other members of the HEAT/HEAT-like  repeat family  , huntingtin is likely a HEAT domain solenoid that functions as a mechanical scaffold for multi-member complexes  . The polyglutamine region is not conserved in some huntingtin orthologues  , implying a role as an extra feature that fine-tunes huntingtin structure and function . Indeed , testing this idea , we have previously demonstrated , with purified recombinant human huntingtins in a cell-free assay , that lengthening the polyglutamine tract quantitatively enhances the basal function of huntingtin in stimulating Polycomb repressive complex 2  histone methyltransferase  . The topology of the huntingtin solenoid is expected to reflect the specific stacking characteristics of α-helical HEAT/HEAT-like repeats that span the molecule . Nevertheless this shape must enable modulation by the amino-terminal polyglutamine segment . It seems reasonable that this may involve some structural feature that is critical to huntingtin function . Human huntingtin is phosphorylated , at more than seventy modified serine , threonine and tyrosine residues  . Indeed , a comparison of lines of transgenic modified HTT BAC mice has implicated unique amino-terminal serine phosphorylation in protection against deleterious effects of mutant huntingtin  and the polyglutamine expansion at the amino-terminal causes a trend of hypo-phosphorylation in all sites , including sites near the carboxyl-terminus  , indirectly implying a long-range impact of the amino-terminal region on huntingtin structure and function . In order to solve the apparent puzzle of how huntingtin’s solenoid structure may enable quantitative or qualitative  modulation of huntingtin function , according to the size of the amino-terminal polyglutamine tract , we have extended initial observations showing a likely flexible α-helical structure by conducting systematic biophysical and biochemical analyses of members of a panel of highly purified human recombinant huntingtins , with varied lengths of polyglutamine tracts  . It has been reported previously that purified huntingtin exhibits a predominantly α-helical secondary structure but among studies the impact of polyglutamine size has been inconsistent  . To carry out a standardized evaluation , we performed circular dichroism  analysis of a series of recombinant human huntingtins with different polyglutamine tract lengths  purified to homogeneity  . These results imply the same basic core structure and stability regardless of the size of the expanded polyglutamine segment . Plotting an average of the Mean Residue Ellipticity  at 222 nm  reveals an incremental quantitative effect of lengthening the polyglutamine tract at the amino terminus on the α-helicity of the entire molecule  . Huntingtin secondary structure is modulated by the length of polyglutamine tract . Human huntingtin amino acid sequence  was analyzed for predicted secondary structure using: NORSp  and PROF   . Stick model of human huntingtin protein  was generated depicting the predicted alpha helical  , random coil  and beta sheet  regions . The polyglutamine tract in the amino-terminus is indicated in purple . The far UV-wavelength scan at 25°C of these purified huntingtin proteins generates a curve typical of α-helical proteins . Thermal behavior of Q23- , Q46- and Q78-huntingtin . cm2/dmol , at 222 nm wavelength characteristic of an α-helix ) , from two independent experiments , was plotted against the length of the polyglutamine tract of huntingtin proteins  . Normalization of purified huntingtin proteins with varied polyglutamine tract length . Recombinant human huntingtin proteins with indicated polyglutamine tract length were purified as described in the methods . Equal amount  of indicated purified huntingtin proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane and probed with anti-Htt antibodies with amino-terminal  or carboxyl-terminal  epitope to show equal loading . To demonstrate huntingtin polyglutamine repeat length , the blot was also probed with polyglutamine length-specific antibody  . Moreover , as expected , as the polyglutamine tract size was increased , the highly purified huntingtins exhibited decreasing mobility  and increasing detectability with polyglutamine-directed antibody mAb1F8  . 004 We then investigated the proposal that huntingtin’s shape may enable a structural impact of the amino-terminal polyglutamine tract , by performing single-particle electron microscopy  of recombinant human huntingtins with polyglutamine tract lengths of 23- and 78-residues . A total of 10 , 169 particles were chosen for generating 2D class averages and 30 class averages were used for reconstructing a 3D EM map of Q23-huntingtin  . The EM map of Q23-huntingtin at about 30 Å resolution , estimated from Fourier shell correlation analysis , shows that the molecule adopts an overall spherical shape with 130 Å height and 100 Å width  . The overall shape of huntingtin was not apparently affected either through crosslinking or by the tag as 2D class averages of huntingtin with no cross linker or without tag also showed a similar spherical shape  . 48 , assuming that Q23-huntingtin is a sphere with 115 Å diameter with 348 kDa molecular weight . 23 for the protein itself , Q23-huntingtin appears to contain a large solvent cavity  . Consistent with this estimation , the 3D EM reconstruction of Q23-huntingtin shows a large cavity in the core  . The analysis of negatively-stained Q78-huntingtin  disclosed a 3D map showing a similar overall spherical shape , with a large cavity in the core  . Although 3D maps were reconstructed de novo without other experimental methods such as random conical tilt , the high similarity of the shapes between Q23- and Q78-huntingtin 3D maps attests that huntingtin has the spherical structure with a cavity  . Notably , manual superimposition of the 3D maps of Q23-huntingtin and Q78-huntingtin reveals potential differences in the two structures  , which may reflect technical variation  , in addition to the structural effects of the lengthened polyglutamine segment that were foreshadowed by the altered CD spectra  . Three-dimensional reconstruction of negatively-stained Q23- and Q78-huntingtin . 3D EM map of Q23-huntingtin was reconstructed from negatively-stained particles of Q23 monomer separated by GraFix . 3D map of Q23-huntingtin is shown in different orientation rotated about the y axis  . Sectioned view of 3D EM map of Q23-huntingtin in the same orientation as in A revealing a large cavity inside of Q23-huntingtin . 3D EM map of Q78-huntingin  was reconstructed as for Q23-huntingtin and shown in different angles rotated about the y axis  . Sectioned view of 3D EM map of Q78-huntingtin in the same orientation as in C also showing a large cavity inside of Q78-huntingtin . Purification of huntingtin by GraFix . The blue native gel  show that Q23-huntingtin was separated by a 5–20% sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation in the presence of glutaraldehyde gradient . Q78-huntingtin was separated and prepared in the same way as Q23-huntingtin . Negatively-stained micrographs of huntingtin at 50 , 000X magnification . 2% Uranyl acetate-stained micrograph of Q23-huntingtin without GraFix . 2% Uranyl acetate-stained micrograph of Q23- , and Q78-huntingtin after separation by GraFix . Most of the particles exhibit a globular shape and existed as monomer in electron micrographs , which reflects the homogeneity of huntingtin protein . 2D Class averages of Q23- and Q78-huntingtin . 2D class averages from the data set of monomeric Q23- , and Q78-huntingtin separated by GraFix in the presence of 0–0 . 2D class averages from the data set of monomeric Q23-huntingtin separated by Grafix in the absence of glutaldehyde show similar shapes with 2D class averages shown in A indicating that the fixation reagent did not cause substantial structural change . 2D class averages from the data set of monomeric Q23-huntingtin without tag separated by GraFix in the presence of 0–0 . Superimposition between 3D EM maps of Q23 and Q78-huntingtin . 3D EM maps from Q23- and Q78-huntingtin were loaded and compared in UCSF Chimera program  . Superimposition between Q23-huntingtin  and Q78-huntingtin  in different angles rotated about the x- and y- axes . Superimposition between Q23-huntingtin  and Q78-huntingtin  in same angles as shown above . 010 We then attempted to locate the amino-terminus  of huntingtin in the EM maps , by collecting images of negatively-stained purified complexes of antibody-bound amino-terminal FLAG-tags of the Q23- and Q78-huntingtin  . We also proceeded to reconstitute 3D structure of Q23- and Q78-huntingtin-antibody complexes . Comparisons of the 2D class averages and 3D reconstituted structures between huntingtin alone and the huntingtin-FLAG-antibody complex pairs clearly reveals an extra density at the top of the structure  for both Q23- and Q78-huntingtin  . Detection of the amino-terminus region of huntingtin by electron microscopy . 3D reconstitutions of Q23-huntingtin and Q23-huntingtin antibody complex  or Q78-huntingtin and Q78-huntingtin antibody complex  are shown in gray and yellow or in green and brown , respectively . 2D class averages corresponding to each huntingtin and its antibody complex are shown below the 3D reconstituted EM map and the extra density is marked with a red triangle . Producing huntingtin-FLAG-Aantibody complex . Q78-huntingtin was incubated with two-fold molar ratio of anti-FLAG antibody for 16 hr at 4°C . The blue native gel  shows separation and location of huntingtin alone  and huntingtin-FLAG-antibody complex  . Q23-huntingtin-FLAG-antibody complex was also prepared in the same conditions for the subsequent EM analysis  . Negatively-stained micrographs of huntingtin-antibody complexes at 50 , 000X magnification . 2% uranyl acetate stained micrograph of Q23-  , and Q78  -huntingtin complexes with FLAG antibodies . 013 To further examine structural characteristics such as folding , we then assessed intramolecular interactions within huntingtin as estimated from the spatial proximity of lysine residues in sucrose-gradient-selected monomeric Q23- and Q78-huntingtin , determined by disuccinimidyl suberate  cross-linking mass spectrometry  analysis   . Based upon the spacing between the DSS-cross-linked lysine residues in the primary sequence , the interactions that were detected for either huntingtin can be grouped into three categories , depicted in Figure 4A . Inspection of the depiction of the short-range cross-link contact sites relative to the location of the protease-sensitive sites  indicates that huntingtin is likely to be composed of five distinct domains  . The location of the protease-sensitive major hinge region located at residues 1184–1254 defines the 150 kDa amino-terminal domain  and the 200 kDa carboxyl-terminal domain  . A minor-protease sensitive site located at ~ residue 500 demarcates the NTD into NTD-1 and NTD-II . The UCD is flanked by regions with numerous intramolecular contacts; the CTD-I in proximity to the major proteolysis site and the carboxyl-terminal CTD-II  . Consistent with the hypothesis of five discernable huntingtin sub-domains , the results of hydrophobicity analysis show a transition in hydrophobicity prediction at the edge of each sub-domain  . Cross-linking mass spectrometry analysis shows the intra-molecular interactions of Q23- , Q78- and Q46-huntingtin . The 3 , 144 amino acid primary huntingtin sequence  is depicted as a yellow bar with the location of the polyglutamine tract indicated by the green arrowhead  . The short- , mid- and long-range Lys-Lys cross-links by DSS identified in Q23-huntingtin  and Q78-huntingtin  by XL-MS are depicted by the green , blue and red-colored lines , respectively . Below that is a schematic view of huntingtin with five sub-domains delineated by the shared patterns of intra-molecular interactions; two amino-terminal  and three carboxyl-terminal  , as defined relative to the landmark major protease-sensitive site at ~ residue 1200 identified previously  , which is denoted by the large red arrowhead , while the secondary minor cleavage site is denoted by the small red arrowhead . The cross-links of Q46 huntingtin  identified in XL-MS analysis are also shown under the five sub-domains schematic . Lys-Lys cross-links by DSS unique to Q23-huntingtin , Q78-huntingtin and Q46-huntingtin are shown in cyan , pink , and orange , respectively in each pair-wise comparison of Q23 vs Q78  , Q23 vs Q46  or Q46 vs Q78  . The amino-terminal  and carboxyl-terminal  sub-domains are depicted in cartoons  to show more substantial interactions  between NTD-I and CTD-I in Q23-huntingtin  and between CTD-II and NTD-II or CTD-I in Q78-huntingtin  and throughout both amino- and carboxyl-terminal sub-domains in Q46-huntingtin  . In all three huntingtins  , NTD-I folds to contact CTD-I and CTD-II also contacts CTD-I as well as NTD-II , implying that the physical impact of the polyglutamine tract at the very amino-terminal end has the opportunity to subtly but globally alter the entire huntingtin structure and function in a polyglutamine length-dependent manner . Purification of huntingtin by ultracentrifugation after DSS cross-linking . Q23-huntingtin was separated by 10–30% sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation after DSS crosslinking . Fractions 5–12 were analyzed on a Tris-Acetate gel  with Tris-Glycine native running buffer ( M: marker , input: Q23-huntingtin before ultracentrifugation . Q78-huntingtin  or Q46-huntingtin  was separated and prepared in the same way as Q23-huntingtin . Notably , we found that the glutaraldehyde crosslinked huntingtin and DSS crosslinked huntingtin behave differently . We achieved a better separation with a 10–30% sucrose gradient for the DSS crosslinked huntingtin , but with a 5–20% sucrose gradient for the glutaraldehyde crosslinked huntingtin in Figure 2—figure supplement 1 . Specifically , NTD-I mainly interacts with CTD-I , while CTD-II interacts with NTD-II and notably with CTD-1 . Thus , the pattern of mid- and long-range contacts supports a view of huntingtin folding such that the extreme amino-terminal subdomain  , with its polyglutamine tract , and the extreme carboxyl-terminal subdomain  are close to each other by virtue of contacts that each makes with the NTD-II and CTD-I sub-domains that flank the major cleavage site . Notably , the overall contact-patterns for the Q23- and Q78-huntingtin were similar , supporting observations of a generally similar core-stability  and shape  . However , subtraction of the 38 crosslinks common to both proteins highlight networks of contacts that are relatively specific for either Q23-huntingtin  or Q78-huntingtin  , as depicted in Figure 4B . To further examine the patterns of the internal interaction depending on its polyglutamine length , we also performed XL-MS analysis of Q46-huntingtin . First , the overall contact-patterns of Q46-huntingtin were similar and consistent with the five distinct domains  . Compared with those of Q23- and Q78-huntingtin , the unique contacts of Q46 reveal widespread interactions across the entire region of the protein  . These unique , largely mid- and long-range contacts disclose that Q23-huntingtin exhibits more unique interactions of the NTD-I with the CTD-I , and Q78-huntingtin displays more unique contacts between the CTD-II and the CTD-I and on occasion with NTD-II . On the other hand , the unique crosslinks of Q46-huntingtin reveal that CTD-I seems to interact with both NTD-I and CTD-II as if Q46-huntingtin posits an intermediate conformation between Q23- and Q78-huntingtin . These observations imply a subtle but detectable 3-dimensional structural impact of polyglutamine tract length as it increases . We applied a systematic structure-function approach to delineate the features of huntingtin that conspire with its polyglutamine tract to comprise , in conjunction with some as yet unknown target , the dominant gain of function mechanism that triggers the pathogenic process in patients with HD . Our biophysical analyses of an allelic series of native recombinant human huntingtins now provide a satisfying solution to the mystery of how the amino-terminal polyglutamine tract may be in a position to modulate huntingtin structure and function . Considering that the size of huntingtin is much bigger than other HEAT repeat proteins , we can imagine that the HEAT repeat domains can be folded back to form a closed structure that we have observed in huntingtin , having functional sites located in the internal cavity . This shape classifies huntingtin as a closed helical solenoid , contrasting with the shorter open curvilinear HEAT/HEAT-like repeat solenoids whose native structures have been solved at high resolution  . Our biophysical analyses also provide basic insights for future higher-resolution studies that will be needed to more precisely delineate huntingtin structure and its modulation by the polyglutamine tract . The pattern of proteolysis , regardless of polyglutamine tract length , revealed a single major cleavage-sensitive site at ~ residue 1200 , strongly predicting a major hinge or pivot that roughly parses the protein into two nearly equal ‘arms’ , a 150 kDa NTD and a 200 kDa CTD . This is supported by the patterns of short- and mid-range intramolecular DSS-XL-MS delineated intramolecular contacts that are shared by the Q23- , Q46- and Q78-huntingtin , which are mainly located within and between each of the regions that immediately flank this location , implying extensive local internal folding and close proximity of the ‘arms’ around the pivot-point . Consistent with this , XL-MS fails to detect short- or mid-range cross-linked lysine residues in the sub-region spanning amino acids ~1800 to ~2300 , except one long distance contact and one short distance contact only in Q46-huntingtin . However , perhaps the most striking finding is the multiple long-range interaction cross-links between the CTD-II and CTD-I or NTD-II , as well as the long-range contacts of the NTD-I with the CTD-I close to the major hinge-pivot , which places the ends of each arm in close proximity to each other on the carboxyl-terminal domain arm , above the major hinge . Of note , EM analysis of the amino-terminal FLAG-antibody-huntingtin complex strongly suggests accessibility of the extreme N-terminus , and likely the adjacent polyglutamine tract , at the external surface . Thus , folding of the two main HEAT/HEAT-like domains forms an extensive internal cavity consistent with the shape that we observe in EM analysis , while providing an elegant explanation for the conundrum of how the polyglutamine tract located at the end of the amino-terminal arm may affect change throughout the entire protein . All of the huntingtins , regardless of polyglutamine tract length , appear to have the same basic core structure . Nevertheless the differences among huntingtins with different polyglutamine lengths  are telling . Q23-huntingtin features unique additional contacts between the end of the amino-terminal domain arm with the carboxyl-terminal arm , near the hinge region , whereas Q78-huntingtin is characterized by additional interactions of the end region of the carboxyl-terminal arm with itself near the hinge region , in proximity to the location of the contacts made by the end region of the amino-terminal arm , or with the amino-terminal arm near the hinge . It is intriguing that most of these unique normal and mutant huntingtin folding characteristics involve contacts at the locations on the CTD-I near the major hinge where many other contacts that are common to both proteins converge . While Q23- and Q78-huntingtin show unique crosslinks skewed toward either amino-terminal or carboxyl-terminal region respectively , the wide-spread intramolecular interactions of Q46-huntingtin prompt us to hypothesize that the polyglutamine tract expansion induces subtle but progressive structural changes in huntingtin . This implies that polyglutamine tract length may subtly alter the basic structure by influencing the degree to which the end of the carboxyl-terminal arm is folded back upon itself onto the region around the major hinge: the longer the polyglutamine tract , the more are the contacts . This suggests a location of torsion or tension on the major hinge region that may be exerted by a balance between the positions of the amino-terminal end region contacts and carboxyl-terminal end region contacts . Consistent with our data , particularly including long-range interaction affected by the polyglutamine expansion , a few studies previously implied and reported the global structural and functional influence by the polyglutamine tract size: the interaction with HAP40 at the extreme carboxyl-terminus of huntingtin was influenced by the polyglutamine expansion  ; the proteolytically cleaved amino-terminal fragment interacted with the carboxyl-terminal fragment of huntingtin  ; the proximity between the first 17 residues and the polyproline region has been shown to change by the polyglutamine tract size both in exon 1 fragment and endogenous full-length huntingtin  . Perhaps huntingtin binding involves internal surface features that are accessed by a spring-loaded action of the major hinge-region that entails the end-region contacts of each arm . The impact of the polyglutamine tract on huntingtin basic structural features strongly suggests that it is possible that huntingtin may also undergo dramatic conformational change upon interaction with its binding partners . The success of our structural analysis using an allelic series of huntingtins with different polyglutamine tract lengths suggests that this approach applied to high-resolution analyses will continue to yield insights into the huntingtin disease trigger-mechanism . All recombinant human FLAG-huntingtin cDNA used in this study were cloned in insect expression vector systems that were modified as previously described  . First , the NcoI-XhoI HTT cDNA fragment  , encoding huntingtin amino acids 1–171 with varying polyglutamine tracts  , was inserted between the unique NcoI and XhoI restriction sites in the modified linker . Second , the 9 , 046 bp XhoI-SacII HTT cDNA fragment from a full huntingtin cDNA clone , pBS-HD1-3144Q23  , encoding huntingtin amino acids 172–3 , 144 was inserted in frame using XhoI-SacII into the linker region . All final clones , namely pALHDQ2 , pALHDQ23 , pALHDQ46 , pALHDQ67 and pALHDQ78 encoding full-length human FLAG-Q2- , 23- , 46- , 67- and Q78- huntingtin , respectively , were verified using full DNA sequence analysis . By convention , the amino acid numbering throughout the text follows the numbering of L12392  regardless of the length of the polyglutamine tract . Purification of FLAG-tag huntingtin was carried out as previously described  . Briefly , FLAG-tag huntingtin was expressed from pALHD  in the Baculovirus Expression system  . FLAG-huntingtin was eluted with buffer  containing 0 . FLAG-huntingtin eluted discretely and was estimated to be at least 90% pure by Coomassie staining . To generate non-FLAG-tagged huntingtin , M2-bead bound huntingtin proteins were resuspended in buffer  and incubated with AcTEV protease  for 5 hr at 25°C . The huntingtin proteins without FLAG-tag were released from the M2-bead and further purified using the same procedure as mentioned above . Comparative analyses of huntingtin proteins with varying polyglutamine sizes were performed with an equal amount of each protein , verified by Bio-Rad DC protein assay  and R-250 Coomassie blue staining of bands on 10% SDS PAGE to control for potential differences in protein purity and amount . Anti-huntingtin antibodies were used at dilutions of 1:2000  and 1:5000  . mAb1F8 antibody targeting the polyglutamine region was used at 1:10 , 000 dilution . Purified full-length human huntingtins with different polyglutamine tract lengths  were dialyzed against 100 mM phosphate buffer pH 7 . A fraction containing only the monomeric huntingtin was collected and the protein was then negatively-stained with 2%  uranyl acetate for 2 min on 400 mesh carbon grids . For the huntingtin-FLAG Antibody complexes , FLAG-antibody  and huntingtin were incubated overnight at 4°C and only the antibody bound monomer of huntingtin was isolated as for huntingtin alone . Total 10 , 169 , 9368 , 4714 , and 3239 particles were selected for Q23-huntingtin , Q78-huntingtin , Q23-huntingtin FLAG-antibody , and Q78-huntingtin FLAG-antibody , respectively . Four refined models were superimposed and difference maps between Q23-huntingtin , Q78-huntingtin alone and Q23-huntingtin- , Q78-huntingtin-Flag antibody complex , were calculated by Chimera  , respectively . In order to prepare the cross-linked huntingtins , Q23- , Q46- or Q78-huntingtin  were incubated with 1 mM of DSS-H12/D12  for 20 min at 37°C with mild shaking . Then , each cross-linked huntingtin was separated by ultracentrifugation at 111 , 541 xg for 16 hr with 10–30% sucrose gradient in 20 mM HEPES and 100 mM NaCl buffer . The final database contained the huntingtin sequence and 13 identified low-level contaminants . In addition to the cross-links on huntingtin , only one cross-link on a contaminant protein  was identified . 
NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor for the autophagic turnover of ferritin , a process critical for regulation of intracellular iron bioavailability . However , how ferritinophagy flux is controlled and the roles of NCOA4 in iron-dependent processes are poorly understood . Through analysis of the NCOA4-FTH1 interaction , we demonstrate that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4 is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes . Moreover , NCOA4 abundance is under dual control via autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system . Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase . In zebrafish and cultured cells , NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation . This work reveals the molecular nature of the NCOA4-ferritin complex and explains how intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in cells and in an iron-dependent physiological setting . As such , iron metabolism is a tightly regulated process controlled by a network of iron-dependent proteins  . When iron levels in the cell are low , ferritin is degraded allowing the release of iron for use by the cell . We further showed that NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy is important for maintaining cellular iron homeostasis . First , what molecular determinants drive the pathway and are the interactions between NCOA4 and ferritin direct ? Interestingly , NCOA4 has been reported to bind FTH1 , but not FTL , in cell extracts  ; however , the biochemical basis of this specificity is unclear , especially given that FTH1 and FTL are 53% identical and 66% similar in primary sequence . The identification of point mutants that specifically abolish these interactions could facilitate a further dissection of NCOA4 function . Second , given that NCOA4 levels appear to control flux through the ferritinophagy pathway , what mechanisms control the abundance of NCOA4 ? We previously reported that NCOA4 levels are altered by intracellular iron status  ; when iron levels are high , NCOA4 abundance is low , thereby promoting ferritin accumulation and iron capture . But when iron is low , NCOA4 levels increase to promote ferritinophagy . However , the precise role that HERC2 , iron , and the ubiquitin system play in regulating NCOA4 , and how this is related to NCOA4 autophagic turnover during ferritinophagy remains unexplored . Third , what is the physiological role of NCOA4 in cellular processes that are highly dependent upon iron availability ? Initial links between NCOA4 and processes with a requirement for high iron availability come from expression studies where ncoa4 mRNA is high at sites of erythropoiesis during zebrafish development  . Here , we use in-depth biochemical and cell culture studies , as well as the zebrafish system to dissect the roles of NCOA4 , Ferritin , and HERC2 in mediating ferritinophagy and the role of ferritinophagy in erythropoiesis . We show that NCOA4 interacts directly with FTH1 via a conserved NCOA4 C-terminal domain and a key conserved residue on FTH1 . We show that the HERC2 ligase uses its ‘CUL7-homology domain’ to recognize NCOA4 under high iron conditions to mediate NCOA4 turnover via the ubiquitin-proteasome system , thereby reducing the steady-state NCOA4 levels and increasing ferritin for iron capture . Surprisingly , we find that this same C-terminal domain within NCOA4 binds iron and the iron-bound state of NCOA4 determines HERC2 binding , suggesting an iron-dependent switch in NCOA4 turnover . Finally , we show that NCOA4 is important for erythropoiesis in vivo given its role in mobilizing iron from ferritin for use in heme synthesis . This study establishes the importance of NCOA4 as a critical regulator of cellular and organismal iron metabolism and reveals the mechanistic underpinnings of its iron-dependent regulation . While NCOA4 orthologs exist throughout metazoans , there is minimal sequence homology within the proteome . The N-terminus of NCOA4 consists of predicted coiled coil domains that have been previously shown to mediate oligomerization of NCOA4  . This domain is present in both NCOA4 splice variants , encoding a 614-residue α isoform and a 287-residue β isoform  . We therefore tested binding of purified apoferritin from horse spleen  in vitro to recombinant full-length Myc-tagged NCOA4α , NCOA4β  , NCOA4-N-terminus  , and NCOA4-C-terminus  . Ferritin associated with both NCOA4α and the NCOA4 C-terminal fragment but not with NCOA4β or the NCOA4 N-terminal fragment  . Further truncation constructs were designed based on secondary structure prediction and ferritin binding in vitro was mapped to NCOA4 amino acids 383–522  . This portion of NCOA4 is predicted to contain four α-helices and constitutes a discrete sub-domain of NCOA4 not present in NCOA4β . Mutation of I489 and W497  in the context of NCOA4383−522 abrogated binding to ferritin  . Thus , NCOA4 associates directly with ferritin in vitro and employs sequences in a predicted helical domain for this interaction . NCOA4 recognizes FTH1 via a conserved C-terminal domain . Schematic of NCOA4 truncation constructs . Schematic of NCOA4383−522 truncation constructs . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4-GST fragments as indicated mixed with ferritin . Load is 5% of ferritin input . Schematic and sequence of NCOA4 point mutations designed within NCOA4383−522 . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4-GST fragments as indicated mixed with ferritin . Load is 5% of ferritin input . CRISPR/Cas9-mediated depletion of NCOA4 expression in HCT116 cells . Two independent NCOA4 knockout clones were generated following targeting of NCOA4 exon 2 . Control or NCOA4ko−2 cells were transduced with NCOA4WT or NCOA4I489A/W497A lentivirus and stable cell lines were generated . Endogenous FTH1 binding was evaluated by immunoblot following FLAG affinity purification of WT or mutant NCOA4 . NCOA4I489A/W497A attenuates FTH1 localization in lysosomes following iron chelation . HCT116 control or NCOA4 knockout cells were plated on glass coverslips and treated with FAC for 14 hr . NCOA4 interacts with ferritin via a C-terminal domain and promotes lysosomal ferritin accumulation upon iron depletion . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4-GST fragments as indicated mixed with ferritin . Bound ferritin was analyzed by immunoblotting with FTH1 antibody . Load is 5% of ferritin input . NCOA4-GST fragment loading assessed by 4–20% SDS-PAGE followed by Coomassie blue stain . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4-GST fragments as indicated mixed with ferritin . Load is 5% of ferritin input . FTH1 accumulates in lysosomes following iron chelation in NCOA4WT cells . 004 We next examined the ability of NCOA4I489A/W497A to bind endogenous ferritin in HCT116 cells and evaluated whether mutant NCOA4 was capable of facilitating ferritin delivery to lysosomes upon iron depletion . Because dimerization with endogenous NCOA4 could confound analysis of mutants , we utilized CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing  to engineer NCOA4-deficient clonal HCT116 cell lines . Two independent clones were obtained and analyzed for NCOA4 protein expression  . To determine whether mutant NCOA4 binds ferritin in cells , we stably expressed C-terminally tagged  wild type or NCOA4I489A/W497A in control or NCOA4-deficient HCT116 cells , followed by FLAG affinity purification to purify tagged NCOA4 . Consistent with in vitro data , ferritin binding to NCOA4I489A/W497A  is abrogated in NCOA4-deficient cells , and a significant reduction in binding to ferritin is observed in control cells expressing endogenous NCOA4 , apparently reflecting oligomerization of ectopically expressed NCOA4I489A/W497A with endogenous NCOA4 present in the immune complex  . Given that NCOA4I489A/W497A displayed a dramatic decrease in ferritin binding when expressed in cells , we next evaluated whether cells expressing this mutant undergo ferritinophagy upon iron depletion . Control or NCOA4-deficient cells stably expressing wild type or NCOA4I489A/W497A were loaded with ferric ammonium citrate  for 14 hr , followed by iron chelation using deferoxamine  for 6 hr in the presence of lysosomal protease inhibitors . While NCOA4-deficient cells expressing wild type NCOA4 exhibit punctate lysosomal ferritin localization as shown previously  cells expressing NCOA4I489A/W497A exhibit diffuse cytoplasmic ferritin staining , indicating defective ferritinophagy in the presence of mutant NCOA4  . Our data indicates that NCOA4383−522 , including hydrophobic residues I489 and W497 , is required for association with ferritin and productive ferritinophagy in cells . We initially identified both FTH1 and FTL as binding partners of NCOA4 and confirmed a reciprocal interaction by FTH1 pulldown  . recently showed that NCOA4 appears to selectively recognize the FTH1 subunit of ferritin in vivo  , it remains unclear whether the NCOA4-ferritin interaction occurs in a direct manner or requires intermediate factors for binding . While the above experiments with purified ferritin from horse spleen and recombinant NCOA4 suggested a direct interaction , we subsequently produced recombinant FTH1-only and FTL-only ferritin complexes and tested for direct interactions with recombinant NCOA4 . NCOA4 specifically recognizes recombinant FTH1 , confirming the prior specificity and also demonstrating that NCOA4 recognizes FTH1 directly  . As NCOA4 interacts with the 450 kDa ferritin complex  , we predicted that NCOA4 binds to the surface of ferritin and that differences in FTH1 vs FTL surface residues dictate NCOA4 specificity for FTH1 . We performed alanine mutagenesis of these 16 residues individually , expressed them recombinantly in Escherichia coli , purified 450 kDa complexes for all mutants as determined by gel filtration analysis , and tested binding to NCOA4 in NCOA4-GST pulldowns . Critically , FTH1R23A mutation abrogated binding to NCOA4383−522 but none of the other residues tested had a negative effect on NCOA4-FTH1 binding in these assays  . FTH1R23 is essential for NCOA4 binding and ferritinophagy . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4383−522-GST mixed with recombinant FTH1-only or FTL-only complexes . Load is 5% of FTH1 or FTL input . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4383−522-GST or GST alone mixed with recombinant wild type  and point mutant  FTH1-only complexes . Load is 5% of FTH1 input . Endogenous NCOA4 and FTL binding was evaluated by immunoblot following FLAG affinity purification of WT or mutant FTH1 . FTH1 R23A forms functional ferritin cages and abrogates NCOA4 binding . Endogenous NCOA4 and FTL binding was evaluated by immunoblot following FLAG-IP of WT or mutant FTH . 006 To determine whether FTH1 R23 is required to support NCOA4 association with ferritin complexes in cells , we first generated FTH1-deficient cells using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing . We stably expressed N-terminally FLAG-HA tagged  wild type and FTH1R23A in control or FTH1-deficient HCT116 cells , followed by FLAG affinity purification to isolate FLAG-FTH1 complexes and examine endogenous NCOA4 binding . While FTH1R23A is unable to associate with NCOA4 , binding to FTL is maintained , indicating that mutant FTH1 is capable of forming FTH/FTL complexes  . Moreover , GFP-FTH1R23A expressed in FTH1-deficient cells fails to localize to punctate lysosomal structures , consistent with an inability to bind the NCOA4 cargo receptor  . Thus , binding of NCOA4 to FTH1 involves a basic residue located on the surface of the complex but not present in FTL . Our previous work revealed that NCOA4 delivers ferritin complexes to the autophagosome for degradation  . Since aberrant degradation of ferritin in lysosomes would be deleterious to the cell when intracellular iron is high , we next sought to elucidate the mechanism whereby cells suppress NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy under iron-replete conditions . We previously noted that NCOA4 levels are altered by iron status; when iron is high , NCOA4 abundance is low thereby promoting ferritin accumulation , and when iron is low , NCOA4 levels are high , thereby promoting ferritinophagy  . We noted that previous interaction proteomics revealed the large HECT E3 ligase HERC2 as a high confidence NCOA4 interacting protein  . We hypothesized that HERC2 may regulate NCOA4 levels via the ubiquitin-proteasome system . Indeed , previous proteomics experiments identified multiple ubiquitylation sites on NCOA4  . We further reasoned that the iron-dependent regulation of NCOA4 levels may be a result of iron-dependent recognition of NCOA4 by HERC2 . Therefore we first examined the binding of endogenous HERC2 to NCOA4 in cells under iron replete and deficient conditions . Cells were treated with iron chelator  , or loaded with excess iron  followed by HERC2 or NCOA4 immunoprecipitation  . Immunoblot analysis of endogenous NCOA4 revealed an interaction with HERC2 under basal cell culture conditions where iron is replete and that this interaction was enhanced under excess iron conditions . Conversely , HERC2 binding to NCOA4 was severely attenuated following iron chelation  . We also examined endogenous HERC2 binding to stably expressed NCOA4-FLAG-HA  tagged protein under iron replete and deficient conditions . Immunoblot analysis of endogenous HERC2 revealed an interaction in iron replete and excess iron conditions , while HERC2 binding to NCOA4 was attenuated following iron chelation  . Iron-dependent NCOA4 turnover via the HERC2 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase . Endogenous IP of NCOA4 from 293T cells treated with DFO or FAC for 6 hr . HERC2 and NCOA4 binding was evaluated by immunoblot . Schematic of HERC2 functional domains . To interrogate NCOA4 binding to HERC2 , six fragments spanning the HERC2 protein  were subcloned and expressed in 293T cells . Endogenous NCOA4 binding to NTAP-HERC2 fragments . Identification of the minimal HERC2 domain responsible for NCOA4 binding . NCOA4 binds the CUL7  homology domain of HERC2 . HERC2 CUL7 domain binds endogenous NCOA4 in an iron-dependent manner . siRNA-mediated knockdown of HERC2 expression promotes NCOA4 protein accumulation . U2OS cells were transfected with control or HERC2-specific siRNAs for 72 hr , harvested , and subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot with the indicated antibodies to evaluate HERC2 knockdown and NCOA4 abundance . NCOA4 half-life is extended upon depletion of HERC2 . Immunoblot of NCOA4 protein levels in U2OS cells following control or HERC2 siRNA delivery and cycloheximide treatment  as indicated . Quantification of NCOA4 protein levels in 2 independent biological CHX experiments . Expression of HERC22540−2700 abrogates iron-mediated NCOA4 downregulation . NCOA4 protein level was evaluated by immunoblot . HERC2 regulates NCOA4 turnover . FLAG affinity purification of stably expressed NCOA4-FLAG-HA  from 293T cells treated as indicated for 9 hr ( 100 μM DFO , 30 μM DFX  , 0 . siRNA-mediated HERC2 knockdown attenuates NCOA4 degradation in response to iron loading . NCOA4 protein level was evaluated by immunoblot . NCOA4 stability was examined by immunoblot . NCOA4 stability was evaluated by immunoblot . 008 To define the region of HERC2 that recognizes NCOA4 , we sub-cloned and expressed six fragments spanning the HERC2 open reading frame as depicted in Figure 3B  . Endogenous NCOA4 associated with Fragment 3  , comprised of a homology region shared by HERC2 and Mindbomb E3 ligases and the CUL7 CPH domain   . Further mapping of the HERC2 sequence between amino acids 1700–2800 revealed a strong interaction between endogenous NCOA4 and HERC2F3−6 , corresponding to the CUL7 homology domain and an unstructured region of HERC2  . Iron chelation also abrogated binding of NCOA4 to exogenously expressed HERC2  . The finding that HERC2 predominantly associates with NCOA4 when intracellular iron is high led us to examine whether HERC2 modulates NCOA4 stability , thereby reducing flux through the ferritinophagy pathway . Our previous work revealed a reduction in NCOA4 protein expression upon excess iron loading  . Knockdown of HERC2 using two independent siRNAs resulted in accumulation of NCOA4 protein  . Furthermore , siRNA-mediated HERC2 depletion promoted a significant increase in NCOA4 half-life  . Further supporting a role for HERC2 in regulating NCOA4 stability in the presence of high intracellular iron , overexpression of HERC2F3−6 abrogated NCOA4 loss following excess iron loading likely through interfering with the binding of NCOA4 to endogenous HERC2  . Similarly , HERC2 knockdown stabilized NCOA4 following FAC treatment  . Notably , HERC2 depletion did not result in complete stabilization of NCOA4 turnover . We determined that in addition to HERC2-dependent turnover , NCOA4 also undergoes turnover via basal autophagy . Under iron deficient conditions , despite continued autophagic turnover , the apparent lack of HERC2 action on NCOA4 leads to a net increase in NCOA4 protein level thereby promoting ferritinophagy to release iron from ferritin for use by the cell . Using recombinant proteins , we subsequently mapped HERC2 binding to NCOA4383−522 , the same region as is necessary for FTH1 binding  . Efforts to map the interaction to a sub-domain of NCOA4383−522 were unsuccessful and suggest that the binding requires a folded epitope on NCOA4 . Notably , mutation of residues I489 and W497 had no effect on binding to HERC2  suggesting a HERC2 binding site distinct from that for FTH1 . The dependence of the HERC2-NCOA4 interaction on iron levels suggests that either the complex or the individual components bind an iron molecule . While neither NCOA4 nor the HERC2 CUL7 domain have predicted iron binding sites  , inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry  analysis showed that iron co-purified with a recombinant fragment of NCOA4383−509 , but not the HERC2 CUL7 domain or buffer alone  . Thus , NCOA4  can function as an iron-binding protein and its ability to interact with HERC2 in cells is anticipated to depend on the level of bioavailable iron . NCOA4 is an iron-binding protein . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4-GST fragments as indicated mixed with recombinant HERC22540−2700 . Load is 5% of HERC2 input . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4383−522-GST mixed with recombinant HERC2 fragments as indicated . Load is 5% of HERC2 input . GST pulldown assay of recombinant NCOA4383−522-GST pre-treated as indicated with DFO and mixed with recombinant HERC2 CUL7 domain  . Load is 5% of HERC2 input . NCOA4 NCOA4383−522-GST or the HERC22553−2639  was expressed in Escherichia coli and the amount of co-purifying iron was measured by means of Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry  . Evaluating NCOA4 iron binding . NCOA4383−509 and HERC22553−2639 were expressed in E . coli and the purified protein solution is depicted with NCOA4383−509 solution having a brown color suggestive of an iron-containing protein . Coomassie stained SDS-PAGE gel of purified NCOA4383−509 and HERC22553−2639 . 010 Previous studies suggest that NCOA4 has a role in erythropoiesis due to the timing and pattern of expression  . We therefore examined the role of NCOA4 in a K562 erythroleukemia cell culture model of hemin-induced erythroid differentiation . The dark brown coloration of NCOA4 shRNA pellets suggests accumulation of iron-laden ferritin with inability to release iron for subsequent heme synthesis  . Knockdown of ncoa4 impacts erythropoiesis in zebrafish and tissue culture cells . Expression of ncoa4 in circulating erythroid cells relative to sites of primitive hematopoiesis . Morpholino-mediated knockdown of ncoa4 severely disrupts erythropoiesis  . Ncoa4 MOa: 15/16 embryos with diminished staining in comparison to control . Ncoa4 MOb: 18/22 embryos with diminished staining in comparison to control . At 48 and 72 hpf , ncoa4 is expressed in circulating erythrocytes visible in the yolk sac , heart , and liver   . Taken together these findings suggest that during erythroid differentiation , the majority of iron obtained via endocytosed holo-transferrin is stored in ferritin before mobilization via NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy for heme synthesis . Our data reveal that HERC2 associates with NCOA4 in an iron-dependent manner , and for the first time , provide evidence that NCOA4 itself is an iron-sensing protein capable of coordinating iron via a C-terminal helical domain . While the sheer size of HERC2 precludes traditional in vitro studies , we demonstrate that HERC2 ablation or overexpression of HERC2F3−6  stabilizes endogenous NCOA4 under iron-replete conditions . We noted that NCOA4 remains unstable , albeit with significantly slower kinetics , upon HERC2 depletion , and pre-treatment with the proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib rescues , but does not completely restore NCOA4 protein expression following CHX treatment . Likewise , blockade of autophagy only partially stabilizes NCOA4 . When iron is available , the iron bound pool of NCOA4 can be targeted for ubiquitylation by HERC2 , leading to NCOA4 turnover through the proteasome . When iron levels are low , such as modeled here by chelation , a pool of NCOA4 is liberated from the grasp of HERC2 and may then participate in trafficking of ferritin to the lysosome . Inappropriate depletion or accumulation of FTH1 may also provide insight into the dynamics of NCOA4 turnover . While FTH1 knockout leads to a marked decrease in NCOA4 levels  , likely due to an increase in free iron thereby activating HERC2-mediated turnover , over-expression of wild type FTH1 leads to a marked accumulation of NCOA4  . This may be due to an over-abundance of ferritin complexes chelating free iron  ; however , as re-expression of FTH1R23A in FTH1-null cells leads to only a modest increase in NCOA4 there is likely some ability of ferritin complexes to sequester NCOA4 from degradation via HERC2 and even autophagy . A model that depicts multiple modes of regulation of NCOA4 is provided in Figure 6 . The structural determinants of NCOA4 iron binding and how iron is loaded onto NCOA4 have yet to be determined but we do note the presence of multiple conserved cysteine residues throughout NCOA4 that may play a role in iron binding . Iron Levels Regulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy . A model of NCOA4 ferritinophagy regulation  . 012 The mechanism of NCOA4 regulation by HERC2 contrasts with the recently described role of HERC2 in degradation of the iron-sensing protein FBXL5 , as HERC2-mediated FBXL5 turnover was demonstrated to occur basally , independent of FBXL5 iron binding capacity  . Together , NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy and IRP2-mediated inhibition of ferritin translation function to mobilize intracellular iron stored within ferritin complexes and prevent further iron storage until intracellular iron levels are restored  . As NCOA4 specifically recognizes FTH1 and not FTL , this could suggest that during erythroid development there is a switch in the composition of ferritin complexes from predominantly FTL favoring storage of iron to a mix of FTH1-FTL . At later stages when iron is required for heme biosynthesis , NCOA4 could then more efficiently and with better kinetics target for degradation ferritin complexes with this higher FTH1-FTL ratio . The modulation of NCOA4 transcript levels during erythroid differentiation suggests an additional layer of regulation of NCOA4 at the transcriptional level that we do not yet understand beyond the post-translational roles of HERC2 and autophagy . support the role of NCOA4 in maintaining iron homeostasis in vivo as ncoa4 knockout led to inappropriate accumulation of iron in mouse splenic macrophages  . Further study of NCOA4 in vivo in specific tissue compartments , including the erythropoietic compartment , will be necessary in order to decipher the role of NCOA4 in not only erythropoiesis but also overall organismal iron metabolism . 11 Clone 16B12 monoclonal  , FTH1  , Ferritin  , FTL  , NCOA4  , NCOA4  , HERC2  , HERC2  , IRP2  , β-Actin  , Hemoglobin γ  , LAMP2  . Point mutations in NCOA4 and FTH1 were generated using site-directed mutagenesis using KOD polymerase  . The following gRNAs were used in our study: NCOA4  —GTCTTAGAAGCCGTGAGGTA and FTH1  —GACCATGGACAGGTAAACGT . Clonal colonies were screened for NCOA4 or FTH1 protein expression by western blotting and targeting was confirmed by sequencing analysis . For endogenous HERC2 and NCOA4 IPs , 293T cells were treated as indicated , harvested and lysed as noted above . coli expressed NCOA4α was insoluble . FTH1-wild type and mutant , FTL , HERC22540−2700 , HERC22553−2639 , HERC22631−2739 , and NCOA4383−509 were produced as C-terminal fusions to His6-Sumo . Aliquots of buffer only , HERC22553−2639 , and NCOA4383−509 mixed with 500 μl Aristar Ultra nitric acid  followed by digestion for 24 hr . An antisense probe for ncoa4 was generated from a PCR template using the following primers targeting the 3′ end of the ncoa4 transcript: forward = CCTCTGGAGAGCACATGCAA , reverse = TGCATCCAGTCCACTTGTTCT . Morpholino sequences for ncoa4 knockdown are as follows: ncoa4 MOa  : 5′-CTCTCTGCCCCATAGGAGACATACT-3′ , ncoa4 MOb  : 5′-ATGCCAAAAACACGTCTCACCTCTC-3′ . 
An influential proposal is that the LPFC is organized hierarchically whereby progressively rostral areas of the LPFC process/represent increasingly abstract information facilitating efficient and flexible cognition . Here , human fMRI data revealed rostral/caudal gradients of abstraction in the LPFC . Dynamic causal modeling revealed asymmetrical LPFC interactions indicative of hierarchical processing . Contrary to dominant assumptions , the relative strength of efferent versus afferent connections positioned mid LPFC as the apex of the hierarchy . Furthermore , cognitive demands induced connectivity modulations towards mid LPFC consistent with a role in integrating information for control operations . Moreover , the strengths of these dynamics were related to trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . Collectively , these results suggest that the LPFC is hierarchically organized with the mid LPFC positioned to synthesize abstract and concrete information to control behavior . A prominent organizing principle is that the rostral/caudal axis of the lateral PFC  is structured according to the level of cognitive control  . Mounting evidence from neuroimaging and lesion studies suggests that progressively rostral areas perform progressively higher levels of cognitive control through processing increasingly abstract representations  . This organization enables the LPFC to control behavior across multiple timescales including adapting actions according to the prevailing context , and aligning behaviors with longer-term goals and plans  . While differentiating the functional sensitivities of sub-regions of the LPFC is an important first step , mechanistic insight into how the LPFC supports goal-directed cognition requires understanding intercommunication among LPFC sub-regions . To this end , it has been proposed that the LPFC is organized hierarchically such that more rostral areas exert asymmetrically greater influence upon more caudal areas  . Hierarchical processing confers substantial computational efficiency and flexibility  , and such processing in the LPFC could explain the massive propensity for higher-level cognition found in primates . However , data demonstrating functional hierarchical processing in the LPFC have been limited  and controversial  . Furthermore , no data have linked hierarchical processing to its surmised cognitive advantages . Finally , although it has been widely assumed that the rostral-most areas of LPFC are situated at the apex of the hierarchy  , recent data call this assumption into question  . Hence , understanding whether and how hierarchical processing occurs in the LPFC remains a significant barrier to modeling goal-directed cognition . Here , we examine how interactions within the LPFC support higher-level cognition . To do so , we devised a paradigm to engage the entire LPFC by orthogonally manipulating demands on stimulus domain and cognitive control  . We began by confirming that the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC operates according to abstraction principles by examining gradients of stimulus domain-generality/specificity , and temporal control over action . Next , we modeled interactions among LPFC sub-regions to examine whether and how cognitive control demands elicit asymmetrical influences indicative of hierarchical processing . Finally , we aimed to establish whether individual differences in hierarchical interactions predict trait-measured higher-level cognitive functioning , consistent with the presumed computational advantage of hierarchical processing . The design orthogonally manipulated factors of Stimulus Domain  and two forms of cognitive control: Contextual Control  and Temporal Control  . Cognitive control processes engaged by condition . The basic task required participants to judge whether a stimulus followed the previous stimulus in a sequence . The sequence in the verbal task was the order of the letters in the word 'tablet . ' Factors were blocked with each block containing a basic task phase , a sub-task phase , a return trial , and a second basic task phase  , for all but the Control blocks . The basic task was cued by square frames . Other frames cued the different sub-task conditions . Spatial task . Example blocks of the spatial task wherein participants decided whether the stimulus followed the preceding stimulus in a star trace  . 004 To examine behavioral manifestation of cognitive control demands , separate 2 x 2 x 2 ANOVAs were computed on error-rate  , and reaction times  on correct trials  . These analyses revealed significant effects of cognitive control demands with main effects of Temporal Control ( ER: F  = 5 . 0001 ) , Contextual Control ( ER: F  = 16 . By contrast , there were no main effects of Stimulus Domain or interactions of Stimulus Domain with cognitive control demands  . Reaction times  and error-rates  as a function of condition in the sub-task  and return trials  . *pcorrected<0 . 05 , **pcorrected<0 . 005; ***pcorrected<0 . 005 Following each sub-task , there was a return trial that required either the integration of an item held across the sub-task  or a switch to a new sequence  . These analyses revealed a significant effects of cognitive control demands with main effects of Temporal Control in ER , but not RT ( ER: F  = 11 . 15 ) , Contextual Control ( ER: F  = 20 . Again , no effects of Stimulus Domain were observed  . These analyses confirm the effective manipulation of cognitive control demands , but equivalent loadings of control demands across stimulus domain . To verify the expected rostral/caudal gradient by cognitive control in the LPFC , fMRI data from the epoch of the sub-tasks  were analyzed with a 2 x 2 x 2 ANOVA . Here , we focus on the effects of cognitive control  , while the effects of Stimulus Domain are depicted in Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . The main effect of Temporal Control produced activations across the rostral-most aspects of the LPFC , mostly within the lateral frontopolar cortex  and mid-middle frontal gyrus  , also spanning orbitofrontal cortex and pars orbitalis ventrally , through rostral-MFG  laterally , up to the superior frontal gyrus dorsally . Previous studies have suggested that rostral LPFC is engaged as difficulty is increased regardless of functional demands  . The rostral LPFC was engaged considering each condition in isolation  , ruling out the possibility that activations in this area are attributable to difficulty . The main effect of Contextual Control was most pronounced in mid-lateral areas including the inferior frontal sulcus  extending into pars triangularis ventrally , and the caudal middle frontal gyrus  dorsally . Finally , the statistical interaction of the effects of cognitive control produced the strongest foci in caudal LPFC areas including the IFJ and pars opercularis ventrally , and the caudal SFS dorsally , spreading into the mid-lateral PFC . As indicated in Figure 3—figure supplement 3 , this interaction was primarily due to reduced activation during the Delay task , which had minimal demands on current processing . Thus , the effects are consistent with Feature Control . Collectively , these results demonstrate a rostral/caudal gradient as a function of cognitive control processes with an orderly progression of Temporal Control , Contextual Control , and Feature Control running from rostral to caudal spanning the entire LPFC  . Temporal demands of cognitive control produced a gradient of activation along the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC . Temporal Control activated the rostral LPFC  , Contextual Control the mid LPFC  , and the interaction relating to Feature Control the caudal LPFC  . Univariate whole-brain results of Stimulus Domain . Demands on Stimulus Domain produced differences along the dorsal/ventral axis of the LPFC . Effects of verbal processing  were observed in the ventral LPFC , while effects of spatial processing  were observed in the dorsal LPFC . Despite being associated with the fastest reaction times and lowest error-rates , the Delay condition demonstrated activation in the rostral-most areas of the LPFC . These results indicate that the activations do not reflect difficulty , time-on-task , or attention . Conversely , the Dual condition demonstrated the slowest reactions times and highest error-rates , and produced convergent activations in the rostral-most areas of the LPFC . Bars represent contrasts of each cognitive control condition against the Control condition , collapsing across Stimulus Domain . Given the similar activation patterns between dorsal  and ventral  areas , data were averaged by rostral/caudal zone collapsing across the dorsal/ventral axis for statistical tests . *pcorrected<0 . 05; ***pcorrected<0 . Contrasts of cognitive control overlaid to visualize the gradient and extent of LPFC coverage . 012 The previous analyses demonstrated the predicted rostral/caudal functional gradient as a function of cognitive control processes . Next , we sought to verify that this gradient reflected increasingly abstract processing in increasingly rostral areas . If processing in the LPFC becomes more abstract in progressively rostral areas , caudal areas should process concrete features such as stimulus-domain , whereas more rostral areas should instantiate control processes that act across domains  . To test this hypothesis , we used activation peaks of the LPFC ROIs defined by the cognitive control contrasts above . Notably , each contrast produced a distinct dorsal and ventral activation peak spanning rostral areas  , mid areas  , and caudal areas  . Hence , this analysis enabled the examination of whether stimulus domain-sensitivity is present throughout the rostral/caudal axis , or whether domain-generality emerges at a particular rostra/caudal level . First , we performed a 2  x 3  ANOVA on the main effect of Stimulus Domain . 21 , p<10–9 ) , a significant effect of the rostral/caudal axis ( F  = 10 . 0005 ) , and critically , an interaction between the dorsal/ventral and rostral/caudal axes ( F  = 56 . Follow-up t-tests revealed that caudal and mid ventral areas demonstrated verbal-sensitivity ( SFS: t  = 5 . 93 , pcorrected<0 . 0001; cMFG: t  = 5 . 08 , pcorrected<0 . 0005 ) , but not rostral areas ( MFG: t  = 1 . 54 , pcorrected>0 . Symmetrically , caudal and mid dorsal areas demonstrated spatial-sensitivity ( IFJ: t  = 7 . 83 , pcorrected<10–6; IFS: t  = 5 . 33 , pcorrected<0 . 0005 ) , but not rostral areas ( FPl: t  = −2 . 25 , pcorrected >0 . A similar lack of stimulus domain-sensitivity was observed in a third rostral peak ( rMFG: t  = 0 . This region is not considered further due to lack of resting connectivity with the other LPFC regions  . Collectively , these data indicate caudal and mid LPFC are sensitive to stimulus domain , whereas rostral LPFC areas are domain-general , consistent with a gradient of abstraction  . Given the sensitivity of caudal areas to stimulus domain , and the close proximity of the peaks of effects of Stimulus Domain and Feature Control  , we use the contrast of Stimulus Domain to define caudal areas in future analyses since they enable the most straight-forward separation of spatial and verbal aspects of Feature Control . Stimulus domain-sensitivity along the rostral/caudal axis . Regions defined by peak effects of Temporal Control  , Contextual Control  , and Feature Control  . Stimulus domain-sensitivity was observed in caudal and mid , but not rostral areas of the LPFC . ***pcorrected<0 . Stimulus domain-sensitivity along the rostral/caudal axis robustness . 05; *pcorrected<0 . 05; ***pcorrected<0 . 014 Abstraction along the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC is hypothesized to relate to the temporal control over action  . By these ideas , concrete processing in caudal LPFC provides control over current processing  , while abstract processing in rostral LPFC organizes behavior according to future considerations  . To test this proposal , we examined the degree to which different rostral/caudal levels of the LPFC were related to current processing demands and future processing demands , as indexed by RT . Current demands were operationalized as RT during sub-task trials  . Future demands were operationalized as RT during return trials  . Regressing these measures onto activation revealed a clear gradient such that caudal LPFC was related to current , but not future processing , while rostral LPFC was related to future , but not current processing , with mid LPFC showing activity related to both current and future processing  . This revealed significant relationships between caudal LPFC and current  , but not future processing  . Conversely , rostral LPFC was related future  , but not current processing  . Finally , activity in mid LPFC was related to both current  and future processing  . Temporal activation-behavior relationships . Current RT corresponds to sub-task trials while future RT corresponds to return trials . Red: rostral LPFC; Green: mid LPFC; Blue: caudal LPFC . *pcorrected<0 . 05; ***pcorrected<0 . Temporal activation-behavior relationships robustness . 05; *pcorrected<0 . 05; **pcorrected<0 . 005; ***pcorrected<0 . 017 To bolster these findings , we regressed current and future RT on activations at each LPFC level in each subject . These parameters were submitted to a 3 x 2 ANOVA with factors of LPFC level  and time  . This analysis revealed a significant LPFC level x time interaction ( F  = 30 . T-tests on the individual parameter estimates corroborated the same pattern ( caudal-current: t  = 8 . 11 , pcorrected<10–6; caudal-future: t  = 0 . 4; mid-current: t  = 7 . 21 , pcorrected<10–5; mid-future: t  = 3 . 14 , pcorrected<0 . 05; rostral-current: t  = −0 . 5; rostral-future: t  = 3 . 60 , pcorrected<0 . Collectively , these data indicate a temporal abstraction gradient such that caudal LPFC areas reflect current processing demands , while rostral LPFC areas reflect future processing demands . Mid LPFC areas were related to both current and future demands , suggesting a potential zone for integrating rostral and caudal influences . The above analyses demonstrate that the rostral/caudal LPFC axis is sensitive to abstraction with caudal areas showing concrete properties including stimulus domain-sensitivity and present-oriented processing , and rostral areas showing abstract properties including stimulus domain-generality and future-oriented processing . To examine interactions among LPFC sub-regions , we modeled the dynamics of activity in the six LPFC ROIs as a function of three sets of parameters: 1 ) inputs into the system from stimuli received by caudal areas; 2 ) connectivity among regions along which activity is propagated  ; and 3 ) changes in connectivity induced by demands of stimulus domain and cognitive control  . We then searched for asymmetries in the fixed connectivity and their modulations for evidence of hierarchical control . Group-level Bayesian model comparison adjudicated between models of effective connectivity within the LPFC   . Significant parameter estimates resulting from the best model are depicted in Figure 6 . We began by examining asymmetries in fixed connectivity  . Fixed connectivity is constrained by structural connectivity  , and thus provides a window into the relative strength of efferent and afferent connections . To evaluate whether fixed connections demonstrate hierarchical dependencies , we calculated the relative strength of efferent versus afferent connections with a simple contrast  based on estimated fixed connectivity of the model . Higher hierarchical areas would be expected to show a positive value on this metric . Similar explorations in the monkey have provided evidence for hierarchical structure , but with controversy surrounding whether the rostral LPFC is the apex of the hierarchy  or the mid LPFC  . In our dataset , hierarchical strength increased monotonically from caudal areas to mid areas to MFG , but FPl demonstrated the lowest value on this metric resulting in an inverted-U pattern  . This pattern was not due to the average connectivity strength or total connectivity strength , which showed markedly different patterns  , indicating that hierarchical strength is independent of the general magnitude of connectivity . LPFC dynamic causal model . Interactions within the LPFC were modeled using dynamic causal modeling . Bayesian model selection indicated that the depicted model was the best model of the dynamics among the models tested . Fixed connectivity and inputs depicted in black . Modulations of connectivity by Spatial Stimulus Domain  , Verbal Stimulus Domain  , Contextual Control  , and Temporal Control  demands depicted in colors . Stimulus Domain demands produced feedforward influences from caudal areas  to mid areas  . Cognitive control demands produced feedback influences from rostral  to mid areas  . Depiction of dynamic causal modeling . Tiles represent transient stimuli while blocks represent sustained modulations . Top: an example of a Spatial Control block . Spatial location stimuli are modeled as inputs into SFS . Additional tonic influences of Spatial processing are modeled as modulators of connectivity between areas SFS and cMFG . Verbal letter stimuli are modeled as inputs to IFJ , while the task cues signaling the Delay sub-task are modeled as inputs to MFG . Tonic influences of Verbal processing are modeled as modulators of connectivity between IFJ and IFS , while influences of Temporal Control are modeled as modulators of connectivity between FPl and MFG . LPFC dynamic causal model robustness . Black numbers indicate input and fixed connectivity parameter estimates Colored numbers indicated modulations by Spatial Stimulus Domain  , Verbal Stimulus Domain  , Contextual Control  , and Temporal Control  . Path coefficients in a rostral-to-caudal model . Inference on parameters was performed on an alternative model of LPFC organization wherein content demands produced feedback modulations from mid areas to caudal areas . Notably , this is a strict rostral-to-caudal hierarchical model of modulations . Inset: Model comparison demonstrating the inferiority of this model  to the chosen model depicted in Figure 6  . Connectivity as a function of cost . Examples of connectivity profiles at different costs are depicted . Model comparison . The depicted models are the only models with exceedance probabilities  greater than 0 . 05 , among the 99 models examined . Red arrows – modulation by Temporal Control; green arrows – modulation by Contextual Control; orange arrows – modulation by Spatial Stimulus Domain; purple arrows – modulation by Verbal Stimulus Domain . Hierarchical structural dependencies . Based on fixed connectivity of the model depicted in Figure 6A , hierarchical strength was calculated as the difference between inward and outward projections along the rostral/caudal axis . Hierarchical strength rose monotonically from caudal to mid areas , but fell precipitously at the rostral most portion of the network . **pcorrected<0 . 005; ***pcorrected<0 . Hierarchical structural dependency robustness . Average and total connectivity strength . Average connectivity strength reflects the mean of rostral/caudal fixed connectivity for each region . Total connectivity strength reflects the sum of rostral/caudal fixed connectivity . 026 To better quantify the hierarchical organization of the LPFC , we fit a quadratic  function to each participants’ hierarchical strength metrics . Here , the height of the vertex of the quadratic function estimates the hierarchical strength of the apex of the hierarchy , assuming it is positive . The position of the vertex provides an estimate of the rostral/caudal location of apex of the hierarchy . Across participants , the height of the vertex was significantly positive ( t  = 2 . Furthermore , the vertex tended to be localized to the mid LPFC  and differed significantly from both the rostral-most ( i . FPl; t  = -4 . 0005 ) , and caudal-most ROIs ( i . SFS; t  = 4 . These results are inconsistent with a strict rostral-to-caudal hierarchy  and instead suggest that the apex of the LPFC hierarchy is in mid areas  . Next , we searched for asymmetries in the modulations of effective connectivity by cognitive demands . Modulatory dynamics  had the following properties: first , Stimulus Domain demands increased connectivity from caudal to mid LPFC areas  . That is , when processing spatial stimuli , connectivity was increased from SFS to cMFG ( t  = 3 . 005 ) , while processing verbal stimuli increased connectivity from IFJ to IFS ( t  = 3 . Second , cognitive control demands modulated connectivity from rostral to mid LPFC areas  . Temporal Control increased connectivity from FPl to MFG ( t  = 2 . Contextual Control decreased connectivity from FPl to MFG ( t  = -5 . 0001 ) , IFS  = -4 . 0005 ) , and cMFG ( t  = -4 . 001 ) , while increasing connectivity from MFG to IFS ( t  = 8 . Collectively , these data indicate that demands on stimulus domain influence bottom-up processing , while demands on cognitive control influence top-down processing . These results suggest that demands on cognitive control result in a convergence of influences at the mid LPFC where top-down and bottom-up information meet . Therefore , we predicted that the modeled LPFC hierarchical interactions should be related to cognitive abilities . To explore this possibility , we examined the relationship between the modeled estimates of effective connectivity and trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . First , we observed that individual differences in the magnitude of top-down modulations by cognitive control  tended to be inter-related  . This suggests that top-down control is an individual difference metric . Using principle components analysis , we distilled the cognitive control-induced changes in top-down effective connectivity into a single factor  . Similarly , we combined the stimulus domain-induced changes in bottom-up effective connectivity into a single factor . LPFC dynamics and higher-level cognitive ability . Neural metrics were based on modeled estimates of effective connectivity and their modulations  . Metrics reflecting top-down LPFC modulations by cognitive control demands  , and metrics reflecting bottom-up LPFC modulations by Stimulus Domain demands  were combined , respectively . Top-down strength predicted trait-measured higher-level cognitive capacity . By contrast , bottom-up strength did not correlate with higher-level cognitive capacity . Hierarchical strength reflected the degree to which mid LPFC showed greater outward than inward fixed connectivity . This metric was also positively related to higher-level cognitive capacity . Model and trait correlations and covariances . Correlations between top-down parameters . Model covariance matrix . Covariances between parameters for the model depicted in Figure 6 . Correlations between independent measures of cognitive ability . Top-down modulations resulting from Temporal Control  and Contextual Control  were combined using principle components analysis  to represent top-down strength . Bottom-up modulations resulting from Stimulus Domain  were similarly combined using PCA to represent bottom-up strength . The height of the vertex of a parabolic fit of efferent – afferent fixed connectivity by rostral/caudal location was used as a metric of the hierarchical strength of mid LPFC . LPFC dynamics and higher-level cognitive ability robustness . We examined the relationship between model-derived metrics of top-down and bottom-up processing , and trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . While there was no relationship between bottom-up processing and higher-level cognitive ability ( r = −0 . 9; Figure 8C ) , there was a significant positive relationship between top-down processing and higher-level cognitive ability ( r = 0 . This relationship remained after removing 2 participants with higher-level cognitive abilities greater than 2 standard deviations below the mean ( r = 0 . Hence , those individuals with greater top-down processing demonstrate greater higher-level cognitive ability . Subsequently , we explored the relationship between the hierarchical strength of the modeled fixed connectivity and trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . In particular , we were interested in whether the degree to which mid LPFC demonstrated hierarchically organized fixed connectivity predicted higher-level cognitive ability . We related the height of the vertex fit described above – summarizing the hierarchical strength of mid LPFC – to trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . 0001; Figure 8D ) indicating that those individuals with stronger mid LPFC hierarchical fixed connectivity demonstrate greater higher-level cognitive ability . This relationship largely remained after removing 2 participants with higher-level cognitive abilities greater than 2 standard deviations below the mean ( r = 0 . Furthermore , this relationship remained after controlling for contributions of average connectivity of mid LPFC  , and global connectivity of the LPFC ( ρ = 0 . 05 ) , indicating that hierarchical connectivity makes important contributions to higher-level cognitive ability over-and-above simple connectivity magnitude . This suggests that the hierarchical strength of the mid LPFC is beneficial to higher-level cognition . The height of the vertex summarizes the hierarchical strength of mid LPFC . However , it is obtained by fitting the hierarchical strengths of all areas , thereby incorporating some information from other regions , as well . One might be interested in the degree to which the relationship between higher-level cognitive ability and hierarchical strength is selective to mid LPFC . Nevertheless , a simple average of the mid LPFC hierarchical strength  produced similar results to the height of the vertex method described above ( r = 0 . Opposite results were obtained by relating higher-level cognitive ability to the hierarchical strength of caudal LPFC ( r = −0 . 057 ) and FPl ( r = −0 . 05 ) , which is to be expected given the strong interdependencies between the hierarchical strength of mid LPFC to both caudal and rostral LPFC  . Partial correlations were unable to convincingly determine whether the relationships between higher-level cognitive ability and hierarchical strength were primarily due to the hierarchical strength of mid LPFC or other areas  . However , that the relationships between caudal/rostral LPFC and higher-level cognitive ability were negligible after partialing out the contributions of mid LPFC and that the reverse was not true is suggestive that the main driver is the hierarchical strength of the mid LPFC . Finally , we assessed the unique contribution of each LPFC dynamic factor described above to higher-level cognitive ability . The strength of top-down modulations by cognitive control , bottom-up modulations by stimulus domain , and hierarchical fixed connectivity of the mid LPFC were simultaneously regressed on trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . 05 ) , and mid LPFC hierarchical fixed connectivity ( ordinary least-squares regression t  = 3 . These results indicate that both the hierarchical orientation of the mid LPFC at baseline , and the top-down modulation from rostral LPFC to mid LPFC during cognitive control make separable and positive contributions to higher-level cognitive ability . We examined interactions within the LPFC by varying demands on stimulus domain and cognitive control . Collectively , these demands engaged most of LPFC providing the opportunity for a comprehensive account of its function . We found that progressively rostral areas processed progressively abstract levels of cognitive control with demands on Feature Control , Contextual Control , and Temporal Control eliciting increasingly rostral activations . Moreover , stimulus domain-sensitivity was present in caudal and mid LPFC , but not in rostral LPFC consistent with abstract processing in rostral areas . Correlations between neural activation and behavioral performance revealed that caudal LPFC varied linearly with demands on current processing , while rostral LPFC varied linearly with demands on future processing . Both relationships were present in the mid LPFC , indicating a potential zone where current and future processing converges . Dynamic causal modeling revealed that hierarchical asymmetries in connectivity were strongest in mid LPFC . Furthermore , cognitive demands elicited both top-down influences from rostral to mid LPFC and bottom-up influences from caudal to mid LPFC . Thus , analyses of effective connectivity and its modulations suggest that mid LPFC forms a nexus where information converges to influence action . Finally , both the hierarchical orientation of the mid LPFC in fixed connectivity , and the top-down influences from rostral LPFC to mid LPFC during the engagement of cognitive control were positively related to higher-level cognitive ability . Hence , the functional organization of the LPFC is intimately tied to cognitive capacity . A matter of debate is whether or not processing in the LPFC is hierarchical . From a computational perspective , hierarchical processing is advantageous  , although relating such processing advantages to the LPFC has been challenging . Based on patterns of efferent and afferent projections , they proposed a rostral-to-caudal hierarchy such that rostral areas are higher than caudal areas . Recently , however , the evidence for a rostral-to-caudal hierarchy based on asymmetry of anatomical projections has been called into question . Based on a meta-analysis of projections among areas of the LPFC in monkeys , hierarchy was determined by the asymmetry with which a given area sent projections to other areas compared to the converse  . The results did not support the notion that rostral LPFC  is the top of the hierarchy . Instead , mid LPFC areas  tended to be at the highest hierarchical levels , while area 10 was low in the hierarchy . However , homologies between human and monkey LPFC are still uncertain and there are marked differences between human and monkey frontopolar cortex  . Nevertheless , our results examining fixed connectivity , a putative correlate of structural connections , are consistent with the findings that mid LPFC is higher and rostral LPFC is lower in the LPFC hierarchy . Collectively , these data suggest that mid LPFC forms the apex of the frontal hierarchy as measured by asymmetrical connectivity . Other support for a rostral-to-caudal LPFC hierarchy comes from observed changes in functional connectivity by cognitive demands . In a landmark study , Koechlin et al  demonstrated a cascade of activations across LPFC such that the more temporally remote the control process , the more rostral the activation . Moreover , structural equation modeling revealed significant effective connectivity from rostral to caudal areas as a function of cognitive demands , consistent with a rostral-to-caudal hierarchy . While compelling , rostral-to-caudal models were not compared to other organizational schemes . In the present dataset , a strictly rostral-to-caudal model of modulations produced significant top-down modulatory effects consistent with Koechlin et al  . However , this model produced a substantially worse fit to the data than the model we describe  , rendering rostral-to-caudal dynamics doubtful . In the present data , we performed explicit model comparison and examined effective connectivity as the LPFC was engaged by a variety of cognitive demands . We found that influences as a function of cognitive demands did not follow a strict rostral-to-caudal progression . While cognitive control demands did modulate influences from rostral to mid areas , stimulus domain demands modulated influences from caudal to mid areas . This pattern of connectivity is consistent with the notion that mid areas are an integration zone where domain-general top-down influences and domain-specific bottom-up influences converge . This is corroborated by the activation-behavior relationships which demonstrated that whereas rostral and caudal areas were related to future and current processing , respectively , mid areas were related to both . This suggests that mid LPFC simultaneously represents information from both rostral and caudal areas . From a developmental perspective , it is interesting to note that mid LPFC areas develop later than caudal and rostral LPFC areas  . Thus , the maturation of mid LPFC areas may be influenced by simultaneous top-down and bottom-up demands  preparing the mid LPFC for an integrative role . These ideas are bolstered by evidence that the mid LPFC is a cortical hub with high global connectivity , the degree of which predicts intelligence  . If mid LPFC is a convergence zone where top-down influences from rostral LPFC and bottom-up influences from caudal LPFC meet , it could serve to integrate abstract goals or intentions from rostral areas and concrete contextual information from caudal areas in order to guide action selection . Perhaps the strongest data to date for rostral/caudal LPFC asymmetries comes from lesion studies . Badre et al  manipulated the level of cognitive control while testing patients with focal lesions to different LPFC regions . They found that those patients that had damage to mid LPFC demonstrated impaired performance at higher levels of the task , but not lower levels , while patients that had damage to a caudal LPFC demonstrated impaired performance on both higher and lower levels of the task . These results were recently replicated and extended with a different task whereby similar asymmetries were observed across three levels: caudal , mid , and rostral LPFC  . Collectively , these studies suggest a rostral/caudal hierarchy wherein higher level controllers depend upon intact lower level controllers , but not vice versa . Both the model of the present data  and the lesion studies are consistent with the proposal that operations of the mid LPFC depend upon caudal LPFC , but not vice versa . As depicted in the model , this is due to bottom-up , but not top-down , modulations from caudal LPFC to mid LPFC as a function of cognitive demand . Of note is that mid LPFC lesions in the studies of Badre et al  and Azuar et al  appeared to include the area we refer to as MFG  . In our model , MFG processes sub-task cues , consistent with its role in rule processing  . Given that all of the cognitive control demands require processing the sub-task cues , lesions to MFG would affect all of the cognitive control sub-tasks . Furthermore , in the model , modulations from FPl onto mid LPFC are inhibitory in nature , counteracting the baseline positive influence observed in the fixed connectivity . Thus , the cancellation of negative and positive influences could lead to a negligible impact of FPl lesions on mid LPFC processing . Collectively then , our model indicates that a similar rostral/caudal cascade of asymmetric impairments could be observed with the present task dynamics . The parameters estimated in our model indicated both positive  and negative  modulations of effective connectivity . Interestingly , all inhibitory modulations arose from FPl as a function of Contextual Control demands . That is , Contextual Control reduced the influence of this region upon more caudal areas . This is in contrast to the excitatory modulation from FPl to MFG observed during Temporal Control demands . While Temporal Control required preserving past information in order to integrate it into future processing , Contextual Control required the isolation of current processing from previous and future processing . That is , excitatory influence from FPl promotes integrative processing , while inhibitory influence from FPl promotes segregated processing . Such inhibitory influences during Contextual Control may have been necessary to overcome the positive fixed connectivity observed between FPl and other regions . Hence , although FPl was active for both Temporal Control and Contextual Control , this activity promoted different forms of processing under different conditions , realized by dynamic interactions between FPl and other areas of the LPFC . That is , whereas fixed connectivity demonstrated asymmetrically greater influence from mid LPFC to other regions , various task demands modulated connectivity towards , but not from , the mid LPFC . This suggests that asymmetries in the LPFC shift according to task demands . Recent work has demonstrated that the LPFC flexibly adapts its connectivity as a function of task demands  , suggesting that dynamics in the LPFC may be of central importance for cognitive control . Whether and how such dynamics support hierarchical processing is a critical matter for future research . Connectivity modulations that did follow a rostral-to-caudal direction of influence positively predicted independent measures of higher-level cognitive ability . While it has been well-documented that top-down influences from the LPFC to posterior areas of cortex are important for working memory , sustained attention , mitigating distraction , and a variety of other cognitive abilities  , the relationship between top-down control within the LPFC and such higher-level cognitive processes has been less well studied . Our data suggest that top-down control within the LPFC is an important determinant of higher-level cognitive function . Furthermore , we found that more strongly asymmetrical hierarchical projections from mid LPFC to other LPFC regions were related to better higher-level cognitive ability . This suggests a beneficial cognitive effect of a hierarchical organization with mid LPFC at the apex . However , different definitions of hierarchy may lead to different assignments of rank among the LPFC . For example , hierarchy may be defined by temporal control , with higher levels organizing behavior over broader timescales  . Alternatively , hierarchy could be defined by modulations of influence as a result of cognitive demands . Such relationships are typified by the top-down biasing that LPFC exerts over posterior areas during difficult selections  . However , regardless of definition , the mid LPFC appeared to play a central role in our data showing the greatest outward relative to inward asymmetry , containing both future and present oriented signals that related to behavior , and providing a convergence zone of modulatory inputs . Hence , these data make it clear that the mid LPFC is a critical nexus for cognitive control . How to operationally define the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC has been a matter of considerable debate . Gradients of activation along the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC have been observed by manipulating the temporal timescale of control processing and relational complexity  . However , activations spanning the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC can be observed by tasks that do not clearly manipulate these processes  , and manipulations of these processes do not always lead to orderly gradients of activation  . However , our results are most consistent with the idea that the LPFC is temporally organized  . In these data , caudal LPFC was involved in current processing , providing selective attention to visual stimulus features , while rostral LPFC was involved in future processing , enabling the retention of information for integration into future processing . The mid LPFC appeared to synthesize both current and future processing allowing the use of current and future informed contextual information to organize behavior . Hence , the temporal timescale of processing/representation increased from caudal to rostral areas . A rostral-to-caudal hierarchy makes intuitive sense from the perspective of the temporal control of action . By a rostral-to-caudal hierarchy then , goals should govern contexts . Our data indicate that the mid LPFC has the connectivity properties of such a controller , thereby forming a central nexus for cognitive control . The task design was a factorial 2 x 2 x 2 , with factors of Stimulus Domain  , Contextual Control  , and Temporal Control  . 'Contextual Control' in the present paradigm was originally referred to as 'dual-tasking'  . Di Pisapia et al  have demonstrated that relative to simple maintenance , to which working memory is often associated , maintenance for future integration specifically engages rostral LPFC . Here , we use the term 'temporal control' which we believe most generally reflects the process . Color-to-stimulus domain mappings were counterbalanced across participants . In the basic tasks , participants determined if the current stimulus followed the preceding stimulus in a sequence  . In the first trial of any block , participants decided whether the stimulus was the first item in the sequence  . Thereafter , responses depended upon whether the current stimulus followed the preceding stimulus in the sequence . Square frames cued the basic task and all trials of the Control condition . Triangle , cross , and circle frames indicated sub-tasks with cue-to-sub-task mappings counterbalanced across participants . All blocks began with 2 to 5 trials of the basic task . Then , either the basic task continued  , or one of three sub-tasks were denoted by a cue change . In the Delay condition , participants ignored all cued stimuli by responding negatively , and resumed the basic task when the cue reverted , evaluating whether the current stimulus sequentially followed the stimulus prior to the cue change . Each sub-task lasted 3 to 5 trials . Following each sub-task , participants performed a return trial , then 1 to 2 trials of the basic task . A total of 1920 trials were performed , including 96 for each sub-task . Thereafter , they completed 3 runs of the task on their own . These measures were collected for the purpose of providing correlates for different aspects LPFC function . As a result , the measures were combined into a single factor reflecting general higher-level cognitive ability using principle components analysis . The resting state scan was collected prior to the task in the first session and after the task in the second session . Subject-level models were fit with a general linear model including epoch regressors for the Control , Restart , Delay , and Dual conditions crossed with two Stimulus Domain types . These regressors spanned the onset of the second trial of the sub-task through the last trial of the sub-task . Since the Control condition did not contain an overt sub-task , epochs in the middle of the block were modeled to match the other conditions . Separate impulse regressors were included for the first trial of each block , the first trial of each sub-task , return trials , pre-sub-task trials , and post-sub-task trials , all crossed with Stimulus Domain . This model was estimated as a 2 x 2 x 2 ANOVA with factors of Stimulus Domain  , Contextual Control  , and Temporal Control  . Main effects of Stimulus Domain were explored in both directions  . To test stimulus domain-sensitivity of regions involved in cognitive control along the rostral/caudal axis , ROIs were placed at activation peaks in the LPFC defined by the main effects of Temporal Control , Contextual Control , and their interaction relating to Feature Control . 5 cm from another peak , starting with the Temporal Control contrast , followed by the Feature Control contrast , followed by the Contextual Control contrast , proceeding from the most significant to least significant peak . With these procedures , the following areas were defined: FPl  , rMFG  , MFG  , IFS  , cMFG  , IFJ  , SFS  . Due to its lack of connectivity with the rest of the LPFC  , we describe results in rMFG in the text , but exclude it from the main visualizations and analyses for the sake of expedience . Relationships between activation and RT were analyzed to assess the role of different areas of the LPFC in cognitive performance . This procedure was done separately for the sub-task trials and the return trials . We refer to RT from sub-task trials as 'Current RT' since these RTs correspond to the epoch at which the fMRI contrasts are measured . Voxels were then labeled as those showing a significant relationship to Current , but not Future RT , Future , but not Current RT , and both . We defined rostral LPFC by pooling activations in FPl and MFG , mid LPFC by pooling IFS and cMFG , and caudal LPFC by pooling IFJ and SFS . Areas were defined based upon peaks of the entire dataset described above with the exception that caudal areas were defined based on the main effect of Stimulus Domain , which produced ROIs slightly more distanced from the mid LPFC  . These caudal ROIs were used for all subsequent analyses . However , to better statistically control for subject-specific effects , we used a summary statistic approach by regressing Current and Future RTs on activations separately for each LPFC zone in each subject and then performing statistics on the corresponding regression slopes . To examine interactions among LPFC sub-regions as a function of cognitive demands , we used dynamic causal modeling   . DCM is a model-based method for inferring the directed influences among regions , and how these influences are modulated by cognitive demands see  for an accessible review . Our model included FPl , MFG , IFS , cMFG , IFJ , and SFS described above . ROIs were identified in each individual through main effects contrasts of Temporal Control  , Contextual Control  , and Stimulus Domain  . Fixed connections were based upon documented structural connectivity in the LPFC  . All fixed connections were assumed to be bidirectional with the strength of connectivity along each direction free to vary . Our fixed connection assumptions were further tested by examining interconnectivity among our LPFC ROIs in resting state data collected during each fMRI session . For each ROI , we calculated connectivity for all other voxels of the brain through a simple time-series correlation . Next , we sorted these connectivity values , excluding voxels within 1 . To determine whether an LPFC region , r , was connected to the ROI , we asked whether connectivity between the ROI and r fell within the top c% of connectivity values , where c can be considered the cost . Connectivity was assessed at a range of costs from 5 to 35 . At low costs , connectivity was sparse and at high costs connectivity was dense  . Therefore , we chose a cost in the middle of our range  that was consistent with other studies in our laboratory  , and which produced a connectivity structure that resembled documented structural connectivity . Notably , we initially included rMFG in these analyses and found that rMFG was only connected to other LPFC regions at the very peak of our cost range  . In all models , we assumed that letter/location inputs arrived at the caudal-most aspects of the system , consistent with the dense connections of these areas to posterior areas involved in stimulus representation  . Furthermore , we assumed domain-segregation such that spatial stimuli arrived at SFS , and verbal stimuli arrived at IFJ  , which was consistent with our univariate results demonstrating that these areas were the most active for those respective conditions . Cues denoting the appropriate sub-task were set as inputs into MFG consistent with its role in representing task rules  . This assumption was bolstered by a univariate analysis demonstrating that MFG was the most active among the LPFC ROIs during the sub-tasks , and also by preliminary DCM’s that directly compared models assuming cue input to MFG versus FPl , which demonstrated superior model fits for the former across a range of other parameters . Inputs were modeled as impulse events occurring at the onset of each stimulus . Of central interest in DCM is how connectivity is modulated as a function of experimental manipulation . To investigate this matter , we used Bayesian model selection to adjudicate between different models positing different forms of connectivity modulation  . We examined how experimental manipulations of Stimulus Domain , Contextual Control , and Temporal Control modulated connectivity among the LPFC . Stimulus Domain was split separately into verbal and spatial factors . Modulations were explored during the sub-task phases of each block , modeling the same periods as the univariate analyses described above . Explicitly , Spatial Stimulus Domain between SFS and cMFG , Verbal Stimulus Domain between IFJ and IFS , Temporal Control between FPl and MFG , and Contextual Control between all connected areas . We also explored lateral connectivity in the case of Stimulus Domain  to examine the possibility of inhibitory segregation . In different models , we estimated parameters assuming top-down , bottom-up , bi-directional , or no modulation . In this framework , there are over 20 , 000 potential models . Furthermore , we did not explore disjointed modulation in the case of the Contextual Control factor  . First , we found the best model for modulations by Stimulus Domain  . Next , assuming S , we found the best model for modulations by Temporal Control  . Next , assuming S and T , we found the best model for modulations by Contextual Control  . Thereafter , we revisited Stimulus Domain modulations assuming T and C  , then commensurately revisited Temporal Control assuming S’ and C , and so on . In each phase , the best model was chosen through Bayesian model selection as the model showing the highest model exceedance probability assuming random effects  . The model exceedance probability is the probability of one model being more likely than any other model under consideration . Comparing across the 99 tested models , the model that the iterative approach settled upon had a model exceedance probability of 0 . This was more than twice the model exceedance probability of the next best model . Only 5 models had a model exceedance probability over 0 . These parameters included the strength of fixed connectivity  , input sensitivity  , and the strength of connectivity modulations  . To examine the relationship between top-down modulations , bottom-up modulations , and higher-level cognitive ability , we created factors for each metric using principle components analysis . The first eigenvariate was computed across all top-down modulations , all bottom-up modulations , and all trait-measures of cognitive ability , respectively . To examine hierarchical strength , we contrasted the average efferent connectivity of a region with the average afferent connectivity along the rostral/caudal axis  . Since the meaning of negative connectivity is unclear in this procedure , negative connections were set to 0  . To provide a summary measure of hierarchical strength of mid LPFC , we fit a quadratic function to each participants’ hierarchical strength metrics . In these models , the y-coordinate of each ROI , reflecting rostral/caudal location , was used as the predictor variable , while hierarchical strength was used as the predicted variable . Inferences were performed on the rostral/caudal position and height of the vertex . The height of the vertex was used as a summary of hierarchical strength of fixed connectivity , and was correlated with the higher-level cognitive ability factor described above . 
The hominoid-specific gene TBC1D3 undergoes segmental duplications during hominoid evolution , but its role in brain development has not been explored . Here , we found that expression of TBC1D3 in ventricular cortical progenitors of mice via in utero electroporation caused delamination of ventricular radial glia cells  and promoted generation of self-renewing basal progenitors with typical morphology of outer radial glia  , which are most abundant in primates . Furthermore , down-regulation of TBC1D3 in cultured human brain slices decreased generation of oRGs . Interestingly , localized oRG proliferation resulting from either in utero electroporation or transgenic expression of TBC1D3 , was often found to underlie cortical regions exhibiting folding . The TBC1D3 gene is derived from a segmental duplication , with multiple copies present in the human chromosome 17 and present in the chimpanzee genome as a single copy gene   . Indeed , TBC1D3 corresponds to one of the core duplicons that have been implicated in the expansion of intrachromosomal segmental duplications during hominoid evolution  . Because the timing of origination and amplification of the TBC1D3 gene is consistent with the evolutionary divergence of primates  , we decided to explore its role in brain development by expressing this gene in mice . We found TBC1D3 expression markedly elevated the generation and proliferation of BPs and resulted in extensive cortex folding in the mouse brain , and further delineated the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying its action . Furthermore , TBC1D3 is essential for the generation of BPs in cultured developing human brain slices . A previous study showed that TBC1D3 paralogues are expressed in most human tissues , including the brain  . By using reverse transcription PCR , we found that the expression of TBC1D3 in the fetal human brain  was higher than that in the adult  . Immunofluorescence staining of cortical sections obtained from GW18 human specimens during the peak period of neurogenesis revealed high TBC1D3 expression near the ventricular surface and in the subventricular zone   , suggesting a role of TBC1D3 in cortex development . TBC1D3 expression in developing mice cortex disrupts adherens junctions and induces formation of column-like structures . RT-PCR analysis for the expression of TBC1D3 mRNA in developing  and adult  human whole brain with GAPDH as control . The expression pattern of TBC1D3 in fetal human cortex at GW18 . Scale bars , 50 μm . In utero electroporation  of the mouse cerebral cortex was performed at E13 . TBC1D3 or control plasmid was mixed with YFP . In situ hybridization analysis for the expression of TBC1D3 in mouse brain sections . Scale bar , 500 μm . Scale bars , 50 μm . Distribution of GFP+ cells in E16 . 5 mice cortex . Scale bars , 50 μm . org/10 . The mRNA level of N-cadherin gene is reduced by TBC1D3 expression in mouse cortex . In utero electroporation  of TBC1D3 or control plasmid , together with YFP , in mouse at E13 . Adjacent sections were subjected to in situ hybridization  to determine the mRNA level of N-cadherin   or TBC1D3  . Asterisks indicate areas electroporated with TBC1D3 . Scale bar , 50 μm . FACS sorting of YFP+ cells . Blank , cells from cortical tissues without IUE . Stability of Cdh2 or Fos mRNA relative to that of Hprt in ReNeuron cells , which were transfected with TBC1D3 or vehicle plasmid and treated with actinomycin D for indicated time . Note the significant difference  between Cdh2 mRNA levels in control  and TBC1D3  groups 4 hr after actinomycin D treatment . org/10 . Dislocalization of adherens junctions proteins upon TBC1D3 expression in the VZ . 5 mouse brain was subject to IUE with pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP or vehicle control plasmids , following by staining at E15 . Scale bars , 20 μm . org/10 . 005 To investigate the potential role of TBC1D3 in neural development , we introduced human TBC1D3 expression construct pE/nestin-TBC1D3 together with pCAG-YFP into neural precursors in the ventricular zone  of fetal mice at embryonic day 13 . 5  , using in utero electroporation . 5 , in situ hybridization with an antisense TBC1D3 probe showed that the transcript was expressed in TBC1D3-electroporated mice but not in control mice injected with the vehicle construct  , consistent with the absence of TBC1D3 in the murine genome  . Interestingly , expression of TBC1D3 caused delamination of ventricular radial glia  , and a decreased level of N-cadherin at adherens junctions   at the ventricular surface . The reduction in N-cadherin was probably due to either the transcriptional inhibition or destabilization of transcripts , because in situ hybridization and real-time PCR showed marked reduction of N-cadherin  transcript in VZ cells  and flow cytometry-sorted YFP+ cells expressing TBC1D3  , respectively . Further analyses showed that expression of TBC1D3 indeed caused destabilization of Cdh2 mRNA in ReNeuron human neural progenitor cell line  . Since N-cadherin is known to be important for maintaining the alignment of radial glial cells at VZ  , reduction of N-cadherin due to TBC1D3 expression may be causally related to the delamination of ventricular neuroprogenitors . Indeed , we found that expression of TBC1D3 caused dislocalization of Numb and integrin beta 1  which were originally polarized distributed in endfeet of vRGs  , without disrupting the junction integrity of the VZ as revealed by actin filaments   . 5 mice  showed that delaminated TBC1D3-expressing cells often exhibited clustered distribution by forming vertical column-like structures  , reminiscent of ontogenic radial units  , expansion of which has been proposed to underlie cortical folding  . This column-like aggregation of basal cells induced by TBC1D3 expression may result from increased number of proliferating cells originated from VZ  , and leads to lateral heterogeneity in the rate of neuronal production that may contribute to cortical folding . We thus examine the effect of TBC1D3 expression via in utero electroporation on neuroprogenitor proliferation by calculating the proportion of cells in S phase , as assayed by the incorporation of pyrimidine analog bromodeoxyuridine  for 2 hr before sacrificing the electroporated mice  . We found that TBC1D3 expression caused an increase in BrdU-positive  proliferating cells , as compared to that of control mice electroporated with vehicle construct  . In an additional control experiment , we found that expressing a mutated form of TBC1D3 , with the deletion of amino acids 286 to 353  essential for its cytoplasmic retention  , in neural progenitors had no effect on BrdU incorporation  . These results suggest that cytoplasmic presence of TBC1D3 promotes the proliferation of early neural precursors . Interestingly , the TBC1D3-induced population of BrdU+ cells scattered widely across the cortex , from VZ to CP , with the highest concentration in SVZ  , indicating increased generation of BPs . The identity of these basal localized cells as BPs was further revealed by positive labeling by Ki67 , a marker for cells in cell cycle , and negative labeling by NeuN , a marker for post-mitotic neurons  . This effect of TBC1D3 expression was also confirmed by the increase in the proportion of cells stained with the mitotic marker phosphorylated Histone  in basal regions and a decrease in cells attached to the ventricular surface  . The seemingly non-cell autonomous effect of TBC1D3 expression on proliferation of BPs was most likely caused by different dosages of pE/nestin-TBC1D3 and pCAG-YFP  used in electroporation , because electroporation with pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP , a vector co-expressing both TBC1D3 and EGFP , caused increase in numbers of basal BrdU+ or PH3+ cells in EGFP+ but not in EGFP- cells  . Expression of TBC1D3 induces an increase in cell proliferation in basal regions of developing mouse cortex . 5 whole brain section incorporated with BrdU after IUE at E13 . Scale bar , 200 μm . BrdU incorporation in mice subjected to IUE with indicated plasmids . Scale bar , 50 μm . Scale bar , 50 μm . Quantification for the percentage of BrdU+ cells among electroporated YFP-labeled cells  . Mean cortical distribution of BrdU+ cells among electroporated YFP-labeled cells  . Quantification for the percentage of PH3+ cells among electroporated YFP-labeled cells attached to ventricular surface  or out of ventricular zone  . Total number of PH3+ cells in VZ surface and extra-VZ were normalized to 100 for each group  . org/10 . Colocalization between BrdU and Ki67 in TBC1D3-expressing BPs . 5 mouse brain was subjected to IUE with TBC1D3 and YFP , followed by BrdU injection for 2 hr at E15 . Yellow arrows show BrdU+YFP+ cells co-labeled with Ki67  but not NeuN  in the cortical plate . Scale bars , 10 μm . org/10 . Cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous effects of TBC1D3 on neural progenitors . 5 mice were subjected to IUE with pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP plasmid or pCAGGS-IRES-EGFP as the control , followed by 2 hr BrdU incorporation  or staining with PH3 antibody  at E15 . Number of BrdU+ or PH3+ cells among EGFP+ or EGFP- cells , in apical or basal regions , were analyzed to determine cell autonomous or non-cell autonomous effects  . White arrows indicate EGFP+BrdU+ or EGFP+PH3+ cells . Scale bar , 20 μm . Apical , ventricular zone; Basal , regions outside of ventricular zone . org/10 . 5 mouse cortex . Scale bar , 20 μm . Quantification for the percentage of YFP+ cells with endfeet attached to the ventricular surface  . 5 mouse brain subjected to IUE at E13 . Scale bar , 20 μm . Quantification for the percentage of BrdU+YFP+  , or PH3+YFP+  cells in apical or basal regions or total YFP+ cells in basal regions  . org/10 . Effect of dominant-negative form of Ras on proliferation of TBC1D3-induced BPs . 5 mice were subjected to IUE with TBC1D3 , Ras-DN  , TBC1D3 plus Ras-DN , or control plasmids , mixed with EGFP , followed by BrdU incorporation for 2 hr at E15 . Shown are representative images of TBC1D3 and TBC1D3 plus Ras-DN groups . Scale bar , 20 μm . Quantification for the percentage of BrdU+ among total EGFP+ cells in apical  or basal regions  . 005 , control vs TBC1D3; p = 0 . 049 TBC1D3 vs TBC1D3 plus Ras-DN . org/10 . 010 This increased number of proliferating BPs in basal regions could be caused by increased number of delaminated cells as well as by elevated proliferative capacity of BPs upon TBC1D3 expression . We found that the increase in PH3+ BPs was largely abolished when TBC1D3 and N-cadherin were co-expressed in neuroprogenitors via in utero electroporation  , consistent with the contribution of delamination to the increased number of proliferating BPs . How does TBC1D3 expression maintain the high proliferative capacity of detached RG cells ? TBC1D3 has been shown to promote cell proliferation  , activate Ras and enhance EGF/EGFR and insulin signaling in non-neuronal cells  . In line with this notion , we found that the effect of TBC1D3 on the proliferation of BPs was markedly abrogated by co-expression with RasS17N  , a dominant-negative form of Ras  . This result suggests the involvement of Ras signaling in the proliferation of TBC1D3-induced BPs , indicating multiple actions of TBC1D3 in causing increased expansion of BPs . These oRG cells express RG marker Pax6 and/or Sox2 and can divide multiple times to generate many daughter oRG or IPs  . By contrast , the lissencephalic mouse embryonic cortex contains very few oRG cells , which divide only once to generate two neurons  . Highly proliferative oRG cells are thought to be critical for the expansion of primate brain cerebral cortex  . Remarkably , we found that TBC1D3 expression caused an increase in Pax6+ cells in the mouse cortex , especially in the basal regions  . In TBC1D3-expressing mouse cortical slices , we observed that many Sox2+ or Pax6+ BPs exhibited a single process pointing to the pial surface with intense signals of mitosis-specific phospho-Vimentin   , similar to unipolar oRGs identified in the human fetal brain  . In TBC1D3-expressing cortices , we observed many oRG-like cells with a basal process attaching the pial surface and without the apical process attached to the VZ surface  . Thus , TBC1D3 expression promoted production of oRG cells , which are normally rather rare in mice . In addition , we observed an increase in Tbr2+ BPs at 96 hr after electroporation with TBC1D3 construct at E13 . 5  , in accordance with the linage relationship between oRG cells and IPs  . TBC1D3 expression in the mouse cortex elevates proliferative oRG cells . 5 mice after IUE at E13 . 5 with pE/nestin-TBC1D3 or pE/nestin  , together with YFP to mark cell morphology . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the percentage of Pax6+YFP+ cells  . Mean distribution of Pax6+YFP+ cells . DiI-labeling of bipolar ventricular RG cells  and oRG-like cells with a basal process attaching the pial surface in E15 . 5 mouse cortex after IUE at E13 . Scale bars , 20 μm . Time-lapse imaging of TBC1D3-expressing oRG cells  undergoing division in cultured E14 . 5 mouse slices after IUE with pCS2-Myc-TBC1D3 and pCAG-H2BGFP-2A-tdTomato at E13 . Scale bar , 10 μm . Types of TBC1D3-expressing oRG-like cells before division  . Scale bar , 10 μm . Immunostaining for Tbr2 and Sox2 in the brain slices after time-lapse imaging . Note daughter cells toward basal  or apical  direction upon division . Scale bar , 20 μm . Quantification for Sox2+Tbr2- daughter cell pairs  and daughter cells with indicated marker combinations   . org/10 . oRG-like cells and IPs increase in the basal region of TBC1D3-expressing mouse cortex . Dash lines indicate the boundary between basal  and apical  regions in mouse neocortex . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the number of p-Vim+ Sox2+  or p-Vim+ Pax6+  cells with basal processes in the basal region of electroporated cortex per unit length along the VZ surface . 5 mouse brains , which were subjected to IUE at E13 . 5 with TBC1D3 or vehicle control , together with YFP . Scale bar , 50 μm . Quantification for the percentage of Tbr2+ cells among electroporated YFP+ cells in apical  and basal regions  . org/10 . 5 mice were subjected to IUE with TBC1D3 or vehicle plasmid , together with YFP plasmid , and then injected with BrdU at E14 . 5 , to label dividing cells sequentially . Note the cells double labeled by BrdU and EdU in electroporated YFP-positive cells  . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the percentage of BrdU+EdU+ cells among YFP+BrdU+ cells in apical and basal regions . Apical: n = 10 mice , mean = 18 . 41 for control , n = 14 mice , mean = 23 . 0 for TBC1D3 , p = 0 . 215; Basal: mean = 5 . 79 for TBC1D3 , p = 0 . org/10 . 013 To further identify oRG cells among proliferating BPs , we performed time-lapse imaging of ‘mitotic somal translocation’  before cytokinesis , a typical oRG behavior during cell division  . We labeled individual progenitors with H2B-GFP to trace nuclear motion and tdTomato to reveal cell morphology without or with co-electroporation with TBC1D3 expression vector pCS2-Myc-TBC1D3 , and brains were sliced 24 hr later for time-lapse imaging . In agreement with the above finding of increased oRG population , the number of cells with MST was markedly higher in TBC1D3-expressing slices , as compared to controls  . To visualize and identify the types of oRGs and their daughter cells generated by TBC1D3 expression , we electroporated E13 . 5 mice with pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP plasmids  , followed with time-lapse imaging  and immunostaining  of E14 . 5 brain slices . More than half  of proliferating cells labeled by pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP were typical oRG with a single basal process and an upward MST  . Post-imaging immunostaining of cell markers showed that , in TBC1D3-electroporated samples , a large fraction of either apical or basal daughter cells derived from oRG cells exhibiting MST continued to express Sox2 but not Tbr2  , consistent with oRG cells with the capacity for multiple rounds of cell division . In line with this notion , birth dating analysis using sequential labeling with BrdU and EdU showed that the fraction of BrdU+EdU+ cells was higher in basal regions of TBC1D3-expressing cortices , as compared to that of controls  . Thus , TBC1D3 expression in mice had endowed the primate-like proliferative potency of oRG cells . Taken together , these results show that the primary action of TBC1D3 expression is to promote the generation of oRG cells with high proliferative capacity , leading to expansion of BPs . oRGs in cultured organotypic slices from control mice . Scale bar , 50 μm . org/10 . oRGs in cultured organotypic slices from TBC1D3-electroporated mice . This movie illustrates the behavior of TBC1D3-expressing oRGs . Scale bar , 50 μm . org/10 . 015 To further determine whether TBC1D3 is really essential for the generation of oRG cells in the developing human brain , we took advantage of small interference RNA  and investigated the effect of TBC1D3 down-regulation on basal cortical neural progenitors of human brain slices  . As shown in Figure 4A , the constructs encoding TBC1D3 siRNAs  down-regulated the expression of TBC1D3 in cultured Hela cells in various degrees with siTBC1D3-440 exhibiting most effective effect . Next , vRG cells in cultured fetal human brain slices were transfected with TBC1D3 or control siRNA using electroporation  . After culture for 72 hr , we found that electroporated cells in control samples exhibited normal delamination and a large fraction of them translocated to SVZ regions with typical morphology of oRG cells , whereas majority of siTBC1D3-electroporated cells remained in VZ regions  . These results suggest that TBC1D3 is critical for the generation of oRG cells . In line with this notion , basal cells positive for Sox2 , which largely represents oRG cells  , were also markedly decreased in siTBC1D3-expressing samples  . This effect was unlikely caused by off-target effect of siTBC1D3 , because co-expression with TBC1D3 largely rescued the defect caused by TBC1D3 down-regulation  . In agreement with the result that TBC1D3 destabilized Cdh2 transcript , we found that transfection with TBC1D3 siRNA markedly increased stability of Cdh2 mRNA in human neural progenitor ReNeuron cells  . Taken together , TBC1D3 plays a critical role in the generation of BPs during human brain development . Knockdown of TBC1D3 in human vRGs inhibits the generation of oRGs . Detection of TBC1D3 protein levels in Hela cells transfected with pSuper-siTBC1D3 plasmids , with a scramble sequence as the control . Paradigm of culture and electroporation of human brain slice . The VZ of human brain slices at GW14 . 5  were transfected with pSuper-siTBC1D3 plasmids or a plasmid encoding scrambled sequence as the control , without or with co-transfection with TBC1D3 expression plasmid  by electroporation method as described in  , followed by staining with Sox2 antibody at 72 hr post electroporation . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the percentage of Sox2+ cells among total EGFP+ cells in basal regions  . 004 , siTBC1D3 vs siTBC1D3 plus TBC1D3 . The mRNA levels of Cdh2 in ReNeuron cells after actinomycin D treatment were quantified  , normalized to that in cells with 0 hr of actinomycin D treatment . org/10 . We found that about one third of mice electroporated with the TBC1D3 construct in neuroprogenitors at E13 . At P7 , the cortical folding was more pronounced  , suggesting a cumulative effect of TBC1D3 on the formation of gyrus-like cortical folding in mice . The cortical surface 48 hr after electroporation showed continuous signals of laminin in both control and TBC1D3-electroporated samples  , largely excluding the possibility that the later observed cortical folding might be attributed to the disruption of pial basement membrane . Cortical folding and gyrification induced by TBC1D3 expression in mice . 5 mice were subjected to IUE with pE/nestin-TBC1D3 or vehicle control plasmids , together with RFP to mark electroporated cells , and analyzed at the indicated time . Scale bars , 200 μm . Slices from WT or TG mice at E14 . Note the protrusions  in TG mice  compared to smooth surfaces in WT mice  . Scale bars , 50 μm . 5 WT and TG brains . Note the convoluted cortical surfaces indicated by red asterisks in TG mice . Nissl staining of sagittal sections of TG or WT mice at P3 . Immunostaining for Cux1 and Ctip2  or NeuN and GFAP  in the adult WT and TG mouse brain sections . org/10 . TBC1D3 electroporation has no effect on the pial basement membrane integrity . 5 brain slices  stained with laminin antibody . Scale bar , 50 μm . org/10 . Generation of TBC1D3 transgenic mouse . Schematic structure of the construct used for generating TBC1D3 transgenic mice . The expression of TBC1D3 was under the control of promoter composed of the second intron enhancer of rat nestin gene and the minimum promoter of heat shock protein 68   . Relative copy numbers of TBC1D3 genes inserted in the genome of transgenic mouse founders  were determined by real-time PCR using the tail genomic DNA as template . The number of inserted TBC1D3 gene was normalized to that of glcoe4  . Protein levels of TBC1D3 in brains of E12 . 5 TG mouse lines  , from founders 10# or 51# , were measured by immunoblot  and quantified  . Immunostaining for the expression of TBC1D3 in E12 . 5 TG  mouse brain . Note the magnified area  showing cytosol distribution of TBC1D3 . Scale bars , 200 μm  and 20 μm  . TBC1D3 protein levels in TG mice  at indicated developmental stages . org/10 . Normal neuronal migration in the cortical plate of TG mice . 5 WT or TG mice were subjected to IUE with EGFP expression plasmids , and the cortical plates of mice at E16 . 5 were examined for the distribution of EGFP+ cells . Percentage of EGFP+ cells in different vertical layers of the cortical plate in WT or TG mice  . Scale bar , 50 μm . org/10 . Cortical folding mainly occurs in the motor cortex of TBC1D3-transgenic mice . 5 TG mouse brain hemisphere shows the position of a cortical fold  and a summary distribution of cortical folds  on the brain surfaces from 3 TG mice at P3 . Schematic locations of the primary  and secondary  cortex in mice . Nissl staining in four consecutive brain sections , along the medial-lateral axis , of adult TG mice . org/10 . 021 To further determine the effect of TBC1D3 expression on cortical cytoarchitecture , we generated transgenic  mice that expressed TBC1D3 under the control of the nestin promoter  . Immunostaining indicated that TBC1D3 is mainly distributed in the cytoplasm of Pax6+ RG cells  . Notably , the expression level of TBC1D3 was progressively increased from early to later embryonic stages  . 5 , we observed apparent protrusion of layer 2/3 cells towards the pial surface in the cortex of all TG mice examined  , clear folding of cortical surface could be discerned on cortical surfaces or slices with Nissl staining in P3 . 5 and in adult mice  . Immunostaining of Cux1 and Ctip2 , markers for layer 2/3 and layer 5 cortical neurons , respectively , showed clear lamination in the cortex of both control and TG mice , but the TG cortex showed gyrus-like folding  . Staining of pan-neuronal marker NeuN and astrocyte marker GFAP also showed folding of the cortical surface in adult TG mice  . This localized effect may be attributed to temporal restriction of TBC1D3 expression in RG cells of TG mice and the rostral-to-caudal temporal progression of neurogenesis observed in several mammalian species  . Furthermore , we have determined the pattern of neurogenesis in TG mice . 5 , the TG mice exhibited an increase in proliferating PH3+ BPs , with a wide distribution across basal regions of the cortex , whereas only a single distinct layer contained PH3+ cells in control mice  . More strikingly , we observed a marked increase in the population of Sox2+Pax6+Tbr2- cells in basal regions  and more than half of them exhibited typical morphology of oRG cells  . The presence of elevated oRG cells in the basal regions was also determined by DiI back-labeling on embryos of TG mice  . Similar to that observed in electroporation experiment  , some of the basal Sox2+Tbr2- cells exhibited clustered distribution  . Unlike basal Pax6+ cells , relative density of total Pax6+ only slightly increased  . Sequential labeling with BrdU and EdU for mice at E13 . 5 also showed an increase in the number of EdU+BrdU+ basal progenitors in TG mice  . These results further support the conclusion based on in utero electroporation studies that TBC1D3 expression promotes the generation of highly proliferative BPs in mice . Interestingly , many HOPX+ cells were observed in basal extra-VZ regions of TG mice , whereas these cells were barely detectable in WT control mice  . Thus , we conclude that TBC1D3 expression promotes generation of oRG cells in mice . Cortical basal progenitors are increased and display columnar distribution in the cortex of TBC1D3-transgenic mice . Staining for Pax6 , Sox2 , and Tbr2 in E12 . 5 WT and TG mice . Note the increase in Pax6+Sox2+Tbr2- cells  in the basal region of TG mice . Scale bar , 50 μm . Quantification for the density of Pax6+Sox2+Tbr2- cells in extra-VZ regions  . 5 TG mice were subjected to IUE with EGFP-expressing plasmids to label cell morphology , and brain sections were stained for Pax6 at E16 . Scale bar , 5 μm . Three types of oRG-like cells constitute more than half of Pax6+ BPs  . DiI labeling  and quantification  of RG cells in E14 . 5 WT and TG mice  . Scale bar , 50 μm . 5 TG mice were stained with Sox2 , and Tbr2 . Note the columnar distribution of Sox2+Tbr2- cells in basal regions , as illustrated for the boxed area . Scale bar , 50 μm . Distribution profile of Sox2+Tbr2- cells in the basal region of TG mice cortex ranging from dorsal to lateral cortical regions . Immunostaining for Sox2 , Pax6 , Tbr2 in E14 . 5 WT and TG mice cortex . Note the apparent columnar distribution of Sox2+Pax6+Tbr2- cells  in the boxed area below a cortical gyrus-like structure  . Scale bars , 50 μm . Immunostaining  and quantification  of HOPX cells in the extra-VZ  of E14 . 5 WT and TG mice cortices  . Scale bar , 20 μm . org/10 . Cortical basal progenitors are increased in the cortex of TBC1D3-transgenic mice . Immunostaining for PH3 in WT and TBC1D3 TG mice at E12 . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the density of PH3+ cells distributed radially  or in apical/basal regions  , respectively . Apical: n = 3 mice , mean = 453 . 89 for WT , n = 4 mice , mean = 432 . 99 for TG; Basal: mean = 251 . 49 for TG . Staining for Pax6 , Sox2 , and Tbr2 in E12 . 5 WT and TG mice . Scale bar , 50 μm . The densitys of Pax6+ cells in the cortex of WT and TG mice were quantified  . org/10 . Increased proliferation potency of BPs in TBC1D3-transgenic Mice . BrdU and EdU were sequentially administered into TG or WT mice , at E13 . Double positive cells from cerebral cortex of mice 2 hr after EdU injection were analyzed . Dash lines indicate the boundary of apical and basal regions in cortex . Scale bars , 50 μm . Quantification for the density of BrdU/EdU double positive  cells in the dorsal cerebral cortex of WT  and TG  mice . org/10 . Increased neurons in the superficial layer of the cortex of TBC1D3-transgenic mice . Schematic for the motor cortex  and sensory  cortex , and the brain regions  for the staining analysis . 5 mice . Scale bar = 50 μm . Staining for NeuN and GFAP signals in the motor cortex of P28 mice . Scale bar = 50 μm . 5 mice  . Quantification for the density of NeuN+ neurons  and GFAP+ astrocytes  in the motor cortex of P28 mice . 5 mice . Scale bar , 50 μm . n = 4 mice , mean = 69 . 71 for WT; n = 5 mice , mean = 81 . 59 for TG . org/10 . 025 We next examined whether neuronal density in the cortex is affected in TG mice expressing TBC1D3 . These results suggest that TBC1D3-induced cortical expansion is mainly due to increased number of neurons rather than astrocytes . Because delamination and elevation of the proliferative capacity of BPs are both required to account for the observed TBC1D3-induced oRG generation and cortical folding , we further examined the effect of TBC1D3 expression on the intrinsic stemness signaling pathways in BPs . Interestingly , we found that TBC1D3 expression in neuroprogenitors by in utero electroporation at E13 . 5 , as compared to that found in control cells sorted from vehicle-electroporated mice  , consistent with the finding that regional down-regulation of Trnp1 expression causes cortical folding in mice  . Unlike the role in destabilizing Cdh2 transcript , TBC1D3 expression had no effect on the stability of Trnp1 mRNA  . This result indicates a linkage between TBC1D3 and known factors that modulate fate transition from RGs to BPs . We found that the signals for activated phospho-ERK1/2  were elevated in TBC1D3 TG mice , mostly in VZ/SVZ regions  , in line with the previous observation that TBC1D3 enhanced the ERK signaling  . Notably , almost all  of Pax6+Tbr2- oRG cells in developing human cortex were positively stained by pERK1/2  , further supporting the role of ERK signaling in oRG proliferation . The combined actions of TBC1D3 on parallel or separate cell proliferation pathways may account for the observed role of TBC1D3 in maintaining cell stemness potency . Effect of TBC1D3 on intrinsic stemness signaling pathways and model for the TBC1D3 function in cortical folding . 5 mice were subjected to IUE with TBC1D3 or vehicle control plasmid , together with YFP plasmid , and at E15 . 07 for TBC1D3  . 05 for TBC1D3  . 34 for TBC1D3  . 14 for TBC1D3  . ReNeuron cells were transfected with constructs encoding siRNA targeting TBC1D3 or scrambled sequence . Cortices of E14 . 5 WT and TG mice were stained for pERK1/2 and TBC1D3 . Scale bars , 20 μm  , 10 μm  . 5 human brain slice was stained with pERK1/2 , Pax6 , and Tbr2 antibodies . Scale bars , 50 μm  and 10 μm  . Note that almost all pERK1/2 signals are detected in Pax6+Tbr2- cells . Proposed model for the role of TBC1D3 in cortical folding . TBC1D3 expression causes delamination of vRG cells , through down-regulating the level of N-cadherin and Trnp1 , and promotes proliferation of oRG-like cells by regulating cell stemness pathways , including Ras/ERK signaling . The increased generation of the oRG-like cells , the IP cells , and subsequently regional increase in the density of new born neurons , induces cortical folding in mice . org/10 . 026 In this study , we found a remarkable effect of the hominoid-specific gene TBC1D3 in promoting the generation of oRG cells in mice with a high proliferative ability previously observed in primates . Importantly , this oRG generation is accompanied by the appearance of cortical folding . Furthermore , we elucidated the cellular mechanisms underlying the generation of proliferative oRG cells by showing that TBC1D3 expresssion caused increased delamination of VZ neuroprogenitors via down-regulation of N-cadherin , and elevated proliferative ability of BPs is accompanied by a reduced expression of Trnp1 and likely involves Ras-ERK signaling cascade . However , amplification of VZ progenitors via overexpression of β-catenin in the mouse brain led to the folding of the ventricular rather than cortical surface  , and amplification of IPs only increased the brain size without inducing cortical folding in mice  . In the present study , we showed that increased population of oRG in mice is accompanied with cortical fold formation , supporting the critical role of highly proliferative oRG in cortical expansion and gyrification in primates . It is postulated that oRG cells are derived from the ventricular RGs , presumably requiring delamination from apical anchoring  . In the present study , we showed that expression of TBC1D3 led to not only down-regulation of N-cadherin , leading to VZ progenitor delamination , but also reduced Trnp1 expression and enhanced ERK signaling that could be involved in elevated proliferation of delaminated cells . Furthermore , other functions of TBC1D3 may also contribute to the cortical folding phenotype we observed . For examples , cell culture studies of TBC1D3 have suggested its potential role in membrane endocytosis , as well as Ras activation and epidermal growth factor receptor  signaling  , processes that may be involved in various aspects of neural development leading to cortical folding and gyrification . Indeed , we found that Ras activity was involved in TBC1D3-induced proliferation of BPs . Strikingly , many HOPX positive cells were observed in TBC1D3 TG mice . The relationship between TBC1D3 expression and these oRG markers remains to be clarified . Recently , a human-specific gene ARHGAP11B has been shown to promote production of basal IPs and cause cortical folding in the electroporated mouse brain  . We propose that TBC1D3 , which appeared earlier than ARHGAP11B during human evolution  , acts as a candidate gene that controls many other genes involved in cortex expansion and folding . Thus , it would be of great interest to elucidate gene expression networks related with TBC1D3 expression . Identification of the ‘hub’ genes of such networks may further clarify the role of TBC1D3 in the cytoarchitectural development on the cortex . ICR mice were used for all in utero electroporation experiments , and the TBC1D3-transgenic mouse was constructed and kept in the C57BL/6 background . Fetal  or adult  human brain RNA samples  were reverse transcribed into cDNA with QuantScript RT kit using oligo  15 primers  followed by PCR using TBC1D3 primers: 5’- ATCGAGCGTACAAGGGAATG-3’  , 5’– CCGTATCGATCCCTGAAGAA-3’  . TBC1D3 cDNA was acquired by PCR and cloned into pE/nestin-EGFP vectors   , to generate the pE/nestin-TBC1D3 plasmid after replacing the EGFP sequence . To construct the pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP plasmid , TBC1D3 cDNA was amplified by PCR from pE/nestin-TBC1D3 and subcloned into the AscI-XhoI site of pCAGGS-IRES-EGFP . The pE/nestin-TBC1D3∆286–353  plasmid was produced by site-directed PCR mutagenesis method . The pCS2-Myc-TBC1D3 construct was generated by inserting TBC1D3 cDNA fragment into the EcoRI-XhoI site of pCS2-MT vector . Following oligonucleotides were synthesized  for the generation of vectors encoding small interference RNA targeting TBC1D3: siTBC1D3-1033  , siTBC1D3-440  ; siTBC1D3-3B forward , 5’- GATCCCCGGATATTGATTGACGGGATTTCAAGAGAATCCCGTCAATCAATATCCTTTTTGGAAA -3’ , reverse , 5’- AGCTTTTCCAAAAAGGATATTGATTGACGGGATTCTCTTGAAATCCCGTCAATCAATATCCGGG -3’ )  . The human neural progenitor cell line ReNeuron was cultured on 0 . For plasmid transfection , the cultured ReNeuron cells were dissociated into single cells with accutase  and electroporated in the program X-001 by using the Nucleofector 2b device  , with plasmids encoding TBC1D3 , siRNA against TBC1D3 , or corresponding vehicle plasmids . Total RNA was extracted with Trizol  and analyzed by RT-qPCR to detect the respective mRNA levels with following primers: human Cdh2  ; human Fos  ; human Hprt  ; human TBC1D3  ; human Trnp1  . For immunohistochemistry , mouse brain slices were washed in PBS for 3 times and permeated in 0 . Fresh mice brains were mounted in O . TBC1D3 was amplified using primers: 5’-ATGGACGTGGTAGAGGTCGC-3’  , 5’-CTAGAAGCCTGGAGGGAACTG-3’  . 5 fetal mice brain cortices were electroporated with 0 . 6 μg/μl pCAGGS-TBC1D3-IRES-EGFP plasmids , or 1 μg/μl pCS2-Myc-TBC1D3 plus 0 . Mice brains  were dissected out at 48 hr post-electroporation with pE/nestin-TBC1D3 or vehicle control , mixed with pCAG-YFP in a ratio of 3:1 , and placed in cold ACSF pre-oxygenated with 95% O2 , 5% CO2 . For transgenic mice , BrdU and EdU were sequentially injected at E13 . The detailed procedure for producing TBC1D3-transgenic mice was performed mainly as described previously  . Briefly , to obtain nestin-TBC1D3 fragments , pE/nestin-TBC1D3 plasmids were digested with DraIII and MfeI  . Then the nestin-TBC1D3 fragments were injected into the pronucleus of C57BL/6 mouse zygotes and the injected embryos were implanted into the oviducts of day 1 pseudopregnant foster females  . The TBC1D3-transgenic mice were identified by PCR using tail genomic DNA with specific primers: 5’- CCCACAACTCCGATTACTCAA -3’  , 5’ -CGCCTGTTCGCCTTCTAC -3’  . The analysis and maintenance for TBC1D3-transgenic mouse was performed in the background of C57BL/6 . For each experiment with mice or cells , at least 3 biological replicates were performed . 
Activation of systemic acquired resistance in plants is associated with transcriptome reprogramming induced by the unstable coactivator NPR1 . Immune-induced ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NPR1 are thought to facilitate continuous delivery of active NPR1 to target promoters , thereby maximising gene expression . Because of this potentially costly sacrificial process , we investigated if ubiquitination of NPR1 plays transcriptional roles prior to its proteasomal turnover . Only when polyubiquitination of NPR1 is enhanced by the E4 ligase , UBE4 , it is targeted for proteasomal degradation . Conversely , ubiquitin ligase activities are opposed by UBP6/7 , two proteasome-associated deubiquitinases that enhance NPR1 longevity . Establishment of SAR and associated transcriptome reprogramming are mediated by the transcriptional coactivator NPR1 ( nonexpressor of pathogenesis-related  genes 1 ) . The majority of SA-induced genes are NPR1 dependent , indicating NPR1 is a master regulator of plant immunity  . Consequently , loss of NPR1 function results in severely immune-compromised plants unable to activate SAR . Upon activation of SAR , NPR1 is subject to an array of post-translational modifications . Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome , genetic mutation of CRL3 , and mutation of Ser11/15 all stabilised NPR1 protein , yet impaired the expression of SA-induced NPR1 target genes  . These findings indicate that paradoxically , ubiquitination and degradation of NPR1 are required for the full expression of its target genes . SUMOylation of NPR1 was required for Ser11/15 phosphorylation and facilitates its interaction with other transcriptional activators  , suggesting that NPR1 becomes inactivated only after it has initiated gene transcription . Removal of inactive NPR1 from target promoters may be necessary to allow binding of new active NPR1 protein that can reinitiate transcription , thereby correlating the rate of NPR1 turnover to the level of target gene expression  . In this study we demonstrate that the transcriptional activity of NPR1 is controlled by several ubiquitin chain modifying enzymes . Both stepwise ubiquitin chain extension and trimming activities contribute to the regulation of NPR1 target genes and establishment of plant immunity . To examine if stepwise ubiquitination of NPR1 plays a role in plant immune responses we examined a potential role for E4 ligases . Therefore we investigated if UBE4 is involved in downstream NPR1-dependent immune signalling by acquiring a loss-of-function T-DNA insertion mutant  . Like mutants in CRL3 ligase that fail to degrade NPR1  , adult ube4 plants displayed enhanced expression of immune genes in absence of pathogen challenge  . To establish if these phenotypes were dependent on SA signalling , ube4 mutant plants were crossed with SA-deficient ics1 mutants  . The constitutive immune gene expression observed in ube4 was abolished in ube4 ics1 double mutant plants  . In agreement with the gene expression data , enhanced susceptibility was maintained in ube4 ics1 double mutants  , indicating the autoimmune phenotype of adult ube4 plants is completely dependent on SA . Because SA-dependent immunity is largely regulated by the transcription coactivator NPR1  , we crossed ube4 with npr1-1 mutant plants . Constitutive immune gene expression in ube4 plants was abolished in ube4 npr1 plants  and this double mutant was equally susceptible to a low Psm ES4326 inoculum as npr1 single mutants  . Collectively , these data suggest that in unchallenged plants UBE4 suppresses the expression of SA-mediated NPR1 target genes and prevents autoimmunity , conceivably by altering the stability of upstream NLR immune receptors as well as the downstream NPR1 coactivator . Because ube4 mutant phenotypes resemble those of mutants in CRL3 ligase  , we investigated if UBE4 also controls NPR1 stability in the nucleus . We used the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide to examine if UBE4 controls the stability of SA-induced NPR1 . Both SA-induced constitutively expressed NPR1-GFP   and endogenous NPR1 from WT plants were degraded within a few hours after exposure to cycloheximide  . These findings were further confirmed by quantifying the amount of NPR1-GFP or endogenous NPR1 protein remaining after exposure to cycloheximide  . Stabilisation of endogenous NPR1 also occurred in the previously described muse3 mutant allele of UBE4   . Taken together these results indicate that UBE4 promotes NPR1 degradation . Recruitment of NPR1 to CRL3 for ubiquitination and subsequent degradation requires phosphorylation at residues Ser11 and Ser15  . Therefore we examined if ube4 mutants were impaired in NPR1 Ser11/15 phosphorylation . However , Ser11/15 phosphorylation of NPR1-GFP was unaffected by the ube4 mutation  , indicating UBE4 mediates NPR1 turnover downstream of CRL3-mediated ubiquitination . We then investigated if UBE4 is involved in polyubiquitination of NPR1 . Pulldown of polyubiquitinated proteins using tandem-repeated ubiquitin-binding entities   followed by detection of NPR1-GFP , revealed that SA stimulated polyubiquitination of NPR1-GFP  . By contrast , SA-induced polyubiquitination of NPR1-GFP was compromised in ube4 mutants  , but ubiquitinated NPR1 was still detected at high-molecular weight . Therefore we sought to distinguish if in ube4 mutants , NPR1 was modified by long ubiquitin chains or multiple shorter chains , both of which yield high-molecular weights on SDS-PAGE . Compared to plants carrying wild-type UBE4 alleles , the amount of SA-induced polyubiquitinated NPR1-GFP pulled down with recombinant S5aUIM was strikingly lower in ube4 mutants  , indicating that UBE4 promotes formation of long ubiquitin chains on NPR1 leading to its proteasomal degradation . To determine if UBE4 may act directly on NPR1 , we assessed the ability of UBE4 to physically interact with ubiquitinated NPR1 . We isolated ubiquitinated NPR1-GFP from SA and MG132-treated ube4 mutants and subsequently incubated with recombinant FLAG-UBE4 . As shown in Figure 2F , NPR1-GFP specifically pulled down FLAG-UBE4 , indicating that UBE4 physically binds to polyubiquitinated NPR1 to facilitate ubiquitin chain extension . Because UBE4 enhanced polyubiquitination of NPR1 and controlled its stability  , we investigated if similar to CRL3  , it also promotes transcriptional activity of NPR1 . In stark contrast to cul3a cul3b mutants that were compromised in SA-induced expression of NPR1 target genes , plants carrying two different ube4 mutant alleles exhibited elevated expression levels that were much higher than in WT  . To explore the effect of UBE4 on the NPR1-dependent transcriptome , we performed RNA Seq on SA-treated WT , ube4 and npr1 plants . Among 2612 genes whose expression changed by ≥2 fold in response to SA in WT or ube4 mutants , 75% were stringently dependent on NPR1   . We separated these genes into two categories:  genes that were regulated by SA in both WT and mutant ube4 plants , and  genes that did not make the ≥2 fold change cut-off in WT but were highly regulated by SA in ube4 mutants . Similarly , genes suppressed by SA treatment displayed further downregulation in ube4 mutants compared to WT  . By contrast , SA-regulated genes that were not dependent on NPR1 behaved similarly in WT and mutant ube4 plants  , suggesting UBE4 exerts its effects predominantly through NPR1 . Together these data suggest that in absence of UBE4-mediated long-chain polyubiquitination , NPR1 remains in a highly active transcriptional state . To understand the opposing effects of CRL3 and UBE4 on transcriptional activity of NPR1 , we examined endogenous NPR1 protein levels . Compared to WT plants , SA-induced NPR1 accumulated to elevated levels in both cul3a/b and ube4 mutants  . Thus , NPR1 protein levels cannot explain differences in transcriptional output of NPR1 . We then examined if changes in polyubiquitin chain length regulate NPR1 association with its target promoters . To that end we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments on plants that constitutively expressed NPR1-GFP , thereby eliminating genotype-dependent differences in NPR1 protein level . Coinciding with elevated PR1 gene expression , at 8 hr after SA treatment more NPR1-GFP was bound to the PR1 promoter in ube4 mutants compared to plants carrying wild-type UBE4 alleles  . This indicates that in absence of long polyubiquitin chains , early occupancy by transcriptionally competent NPR1 is increased at target promoters . We also examined a later time point after SA treatment  and found that NPR1-GFP was still associated with the PR1 promoter in plants expressing wild-type UBE4 , but not in ube4 mutants  . To investigate if CRL3 and UBE4 act independently or in tandem , we crossed ube4 single with cul3a cul3b double mutants and analysed the expression of NPR1 target genes in the resulting triple mutant . Nonetheless we were able to select just enough plants to examine the behaviour of NPR1 target genes . In cul3a cul3b ube4 mutants the SA-induced expression of several genes , including PR genes , was impaired to a similar extend as in cul3a cul3b double mutants , indicating that elevated gene expression observed in ube4 plants is dependent on CRL3  . However , a subset of NPR1 target genes  were dramatically upregulated in cul3a cul3b ube4 mutants to a level higher than in any of the other genotypes . Regardless of this specific , our broader findings suggest that CRL3 and UBE4 function sequentially in the stepwise addition or extension of ubiquitin chains on NPR1 but with opposing effects on its transcriptional activity . We then examined if in ube4 mutants NPR1 lingered in a highly transcriptional active state that does not require proteasome-mediated turnover . To negate any feedback effects of loss of UBE4 activity on endogenous NPR1 expression , seedlings constitutively expressing NPR1-GFP were treated with SA plus a range of MG132 concentrations . SA-induced PR1 and WRKY gene expression was inhibited by increasing concentrations of MG132 in NPR1-GFP  plants  . By contrast , the SA-induced expression of these NPR1 target genes was largely unresponsive to MG132 in ube4 mutants , especially at lower concentrations . Thus , loss of UBE4 largely uncoupled NPR1 target gene expression from proteasome activity , demonstrating the importance of progressive ubiquitination for NPR1 activity . In summary , our findings indicate that initial CRL3-mediated ubiquitination is required for NPR1 to attain its full transcriptional activity , while the stepwise formation of long ubiquitin chains mediated by UBE4 inactivates NPR1 and promotes its degradation by the proteasome . Trimming or removal of ubiquitin chains is performed by deubiquitinases  and may provide another layer of regulation of NPR1 activity . Therefore identifying candidate genes that potentially regulate NPR1 by genetically screening mutant collections was not feasible . The broad-spectrum inhibitors PR-619  and NSC632839  strongly impaired SA-induced gene expression across all NPR1 target genes tested  , suggesting that DUB activity is required for their optimal expression . Furthermore , while treatment with PR-619 or NSC632839 did not affect SA-induced transcription of the NPR1 gene , it depleted NPR1 protein levels  . Thus , DUB activity may not only be required for NPR1-dependent gene expression but also for increasing NPR1 stability . We then examined the effect of these DUB inhibitors on SA-induced gene expression . All inhibitors strongly suppressed SA-induced expression of NPR1 target genes  . Furthermore , most inhibitors were effective at low micromolar concentrations and suppressed NPR1 target genes in a dose-dependent manner  . Collectively these data provide a first indication that DUB activity may be crucial for NPR1 stability and efficient activation of SA-induced NPR1 target genes . We acquired a T-DNA insertion line that displayed complete knockout of UCH3 expression  and analysed SA-induced NPR1 target gene expression . Next we identified UBP12 and UBP13 as potential plant targets of both WP1130 and P22077 inhibitors  . Previous research has suggested a role for these two proteins in plant immunity , as ubp12 ubp13 double knockdown RNAi plants exhibited elevated expression of PR1 and increased resistance to the virulent pathogen P . Single knockout mutants of UBP12 and UBP13 have no observable phenotype and double knockouts are seedling lethal  . However we acquired the ubp12-2w allele , previously described as a weak ubp12 ubp13 double mutant  , and analysed this mutant for SA-induced gene expression . Similar to a previous report  , we observed elevated PR1 expression in ubp12-2w plants but other NPR1 target genes were activated to a slightly lesser extent as in WT  . Since UBP6 and UBP7 are close homologues  , we generated ubp6 ubp7 double knockout mutants  that were viable and showed no observable developmental phenotypes . However , ubp6 ubp7 mutants were impaired in activation of SA-induced gene expression  . This indicates that UBP6 and UBP7 are functionally redundant and required for NPR1 target gene expression . Human USP14 and its yeast homologue Ubp6 have both been shown to associate with the 26S proteasome , which is necessary for their activity  . We tested if this is also the case for Arabidopsis UBP6 by constitutively expressing FLAG-tagged UBP6 in the ubp6 ubp7 double mutant background followed by co-immunoprecipitation experiments . The proteasomal subunits S5a and RPN6 both co-immunoprecipitated with FLAG-tagged UBP6  , indicating UBP6 is also a proteasome-associated DUB in plants . Next we examined if UBP6 exhibits typical DUB activity . HA-UbVS readily labelled T7-UBP6 but only upon addition of 26S proteasomes  , indicating UBP6 has proteasome-activated DUB activity . To examine if UBP6 can cleave ubiquitin chains we incubated recombinant UBP6 with free ubiquitin chains or with di-ubiquitin of different linkage types and compared it to activity of recombinant human USP14 . Therefore we proceeded to investigate if UBP6 activity cleaves ubiquitin chains anchored to NPR1 . Indeed , incubation of purified polyubiquitinated NPR1-GFP with recombinant UBP6 and 26S proteasomes led to the release of ubiquitin conjugates of approximately hexa-ubiquitin chain length  . This release of ubiquitin conjugates was dependent on SA treatment , suggesting that UBP6 counteracts SA-induced polyubiquitination of NPR1  . Together , these results demonstrate that UBP6 is an active DUB capable of removing ubiquitin chains en bloc from NPR1 . So what is the effect of UBP6- and UBP7-mediated deubiquitination on NPR1 function ? We found that treatment of NPR1-GFP  seedlings with WP1130 inhibitor increased the levels of SA-induced polyubiquitinated NPR1-GFP while reducing the unmodified amount of this protein  . This suggests that UBP6 and UBP7 activities are required for deubiquitination of SA-induced NPR1-GFP , thereby rescuing it from degradation . To further examine this possibility , we analysed the stability of endogenous NPR1 protein in SA-treated ubp6 ubp7 double mutants . CHX chase experiments revealed that compared to WT plants , NPR1 was destabilised in ubp6 ubp7 mutants  . Accordingly , expression of FLAG-tagged UBP6 in the ubp6/7 mutant background restored NPR1 stability  . These results demonstrate that UBP6 and UBP7 serve to stabilise NPR1 by removing ubiquitin chains that signal for its proteasome-mediated degradation . Given the importance of progressive ubiquitination for the transcriptional activity of NPR1 , we explored how UBP6- and UBP7-mediated deubiquitination might affect NPR1 coactivator function . Because UBP6 and UBP7 were required for NPR1-dependent PR1 gene expression  , we questioned if NPR1 was still associated with the PR1 promoter in absence of UBP6 and UBP7 activities . Surprisingly , ChIP experiments showed that SA-induced association of NPR1-GFP with the PR1 promoter was strongly enhanced in presence of WP1130 inhibitor  . This suggests that UBP6 and UBP7 prevent the build-up of long polyubiquitin chains that block the transcriptional activity of NPR1 . It also implies that similar to their yeast homologue , UBP6 and UBP7 exhibit proteasome inhibitory activity  . Thus , to investigate how deubiquitination and proteasome inhibitory activities of UBP6 contribute to the regulation of NPR1 coactivator activity , we expressed FLAG-tagged wild-type UBP6  and catalytically inactive UBP6   in ubp6 ubp7 double mutants . While ubp6 ubp7 mutants were compromised in SA-induced activation of all NPR1 target genes tested , expression of FLAG-UBP6 fully restored SA-responsiveness  . By contrast , FLAG-UBP6m restored SA-induced expression of only a subset , but not all NPR1 target genes . A distinction was observed between WRKY and PR genes , with the former requiring catalytic DUB activity of UBP6 while the latter did not  . These data indicate that catalytic and non-catalytic activities of UBP6 regulate distinct NPR1-dependent gene sets . Finally we examined what the relevance is of UBP6- and UBP7-regulated transcriptional activity of NPR1 in context of plant immunity . SA treatment induced resistance in WT plants but did not block bacterial propagation in ubp6/7 plants  . Collectively , these data clearly demonstrate that UBP6 and UBP7 are required for NPR1 coactivator activity and associated development of SA-dependent immunity . We discovered that ubiquitination of NPR1 is a stepwise event , requiring the actions of CRL3 and the E4 ligase UBE4 . In resting cells , CRL3-mediated turnover of NPR1 is important for preventing autoimmunity in absence of pathogen threat  . The NPR1-dependent autoimmune phenotype of ube4 mutants is reminiscent of that observed in cul3a cul3b mutants   , suggesting that in addition to CRL3 ligase , UBE4 is required to clear NPR1 from the nucleus and prevent untimely activation of immunity . In presence of SA , however , CRL3-mediated ubiquitination induced NPR1 coactivator activity , whereas formation of polyubiquitin chains by UBE4 blocked its activity and ultimately led to proteasome-mediated turnover  . Although this is similar to the proposed roles of CRL3 and UBE4 in controlling NPR1 stability , initial ubiquitination has different effects on p53 and NPR1 . Instead , initial ubiquitination boosts NPR1 transcriptional coactivator activity , at least in part by enhancing target promoter occupancy in the short term and potentially also by promoting genomic mobility of NPR1 in the longer term  . The complexity of the ubiquitin-dependent transcriptional timer was further revealed by the identification of UBP6 and UBP7 that deubiquitinated NPR1 , thereby regulating its transcriptional activity and lifetime  . Similarly , we found that knockout of UBP6 and UBP7 resulted in enhanced turnover and decreased transcriptional output of NPR1  . However , inhibition of UBP6/7 deubiquitination activities with WP1130 resulted in enhanced occupancy of transcriptionally inactive NPR1 at the PR1 target promoter  . These data suggest that  like their yeast and mammalian counterparts  , UBP6 and UBP7 exhibit proteasome inhibitory activities that at least temporarily prolong promoter occupancy by NPR1 , and  UBP6 and UBP7 prevent inactivation of NPR1 by opposing the formation of long ubiquitin chains . UBP6 showed a similar DUB activity as its mammalian homologue USP14  , in that it appeared to deubiquitinate NPR1 by removing ubiquitin chains en bloc  . Such activity places this DUB in direct opposition to UBE4-mediated chain extension activity . Similarly , Arabidopsis UBP6 and UBP7 opposed ubiquitin ligase activities to extend the lifetime of transcriptionally active NPR1 . This is illustrated by our findings that all tested DUB inhibitors blocked NPR1 target gene expression , while mutation of exclusively UBP6 and UBP7 had a similar effect . Genes were then recombined into pEarleyGate 104 and 202 plasmids by LR reaction  as described previously  to generate 35S::YFP-UBE4 , 35S::FLAG-UBP6 and 35S::FLAG-UBP6  constructs . For SA treatments , adult plants were sprayed with , while seedlings were immersed in 0 . 5 mM SA or H2O . Additionally , we required SA-induced genes to meet a ≥ 2 fold change cut-off , whereas NPR1-dependent genes required ≥1 . 5 fold change in Col-0 or ube4 plants when compared to npr1 mutants . NPR1-GFP was immunoprecipitated using ChIP grade anti-GFP  before capture of immune complexes with Protein A agarose  . For analyses of NPR1 phosphorylation PEB buffer was supplemented with 1X phosphatase inhibitor cocktail 3  . NPR1-GFP was detected by immunoblotting with anti-GFP  . NPR1-GFP was detected by immunoblotting with anti-GFP  . Purified His6-UBP6 was dialysed against 50 mM Tris-HCl pH 7 . The anti-NPR1 polyclonal antibody was generated by immunising rabbits with a synthetic peptide based on a region of the NPR1 protein with the sequence N’-SALAAAKKEKDSNNTAAVKL-Cys . 25 nM Ub-VS treated 26S proteasomes and 20 nM UBP6 were added . For in vitro deubiquitination of NPR1-GFP isolated from plants , seedlings were treated with SA and MG132 as described in figure legends . Supernatant was completely removed before DUB reactions were set up as described above but with NPR1-GFP immobilised on GFP-Trap A as the substrate . NPR1 signal was normalised to GAPDH signal for three replicates , each of which consisted of an independent pool of at least 50 seedlings . 
24 nt siRNA biogenesis requires nuclear RNA polymerase IV  , RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2  and DICER-like 3  . We identified Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs  that accumulate in dcl3 mutants and are diced into 24 nt RNAs by DCL3 in vitro . P4R2 RNAs are mostly 26-45 nt and initiate with a purine adjacent to a pyrimidine , characteristics shared by Pol IV transcripts generated in vitro . RDR2 terminal transferase activity , also demonstrated in vitro , may account for occasional non-templated nucleotides at P4R2 RNA 3’ termini . The 24 nt siRNAs primarily correspond to the 5’ or 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs , suggesting a model whereby siRNAs are generated from either end of P4R2 duplexes by single dicing events . Approximately 4000–8000 loci in Arabidopsis thaliana give rise to clusters of 24 nt siRNAs , collectively accounting for more than 90% of the total small RNA pool  . Biogenesis of 24 nt siRNAs and their role in RNA-directed DNA methylation . A simplified cartoon of the RNA-directed DNA methylation pathway . Polymerase  IV and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase  physically associate and are required for the synthesis of double-stranded RNAs  that are diced by DICER-like 3  into 24 nt siRNA duplexes . 003 Three RNA polymerases are critical for production of non-coding RNAs guiding RNA-directed DNA methylation . These enzymes are nuclear RNA polymerase IV  , nuclear RNA polymerase V  and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2   . Pol IV and Pol V are 12-subunit enzymes  that evolved as specialized forms of DNA-dependent RNA Pol II  . RDR2 is one of six single-subunit RNA-dependent RNA polymerases in Arabidopsis  . Pol IV and RDR2 are each essential for the biogenesis of 24 nt siRNAs and they physically associate in Arabidopsis and maize  , suggesting that their activities are coupled for the production of double-stranded siRNA precursors from initial DNA templates . Pol V is not required for siRNA biogenesis at most loci  but generates non-coding RNAs to which siRNA-AGO4 complexes bind  . Genetic evidence suggests that coordinated Pol IV and RDR2 transcription yields double-stranded RNAs  that are then cleaved by DICER-like 3  to produce 24 nt siRNA duplexes , one strand of which is incorporated into AGO4  or a closely related Argonaute protein  . Because Pol IV localization is unaffected in rdr2 null mutants , but RDR2 is mis-localized in Pol IV null mutants  , Pol IV has been thought to act first in the pathway , generating single-stranded RNAs that then serve as templates for second strand synthesis by RDR2  . Current models have also presumed that dsRNAs made by Pol IV and RDR2 are long , perfectly paired duplexes that can be diced into multiple siRNAs , as depicted in Figure 1 . Pol IV and RDR2 will synthesize short transcripts from oligonucleotide templates in vitro  , but the sizes of transcripts they are capable of generating is unclear , in vitro or in vivo . Recently , Pol IV and RDR2-dependent transcripts that accumulate in vivo in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4  mutants were identified  . These analyses led to the conclusion that Pol IV and RDR2 generate transcripts that can be many hundreds of nucleotides in length , and thus large enough to encode multiple siRNAs , as in current models . Here , we present RNA blot hybridization , deep sequencing , in vitro transcription and in vitro DCL3 dicing results that yield a different interpretation , showing that Pol IV and RDR2 primarily generate dsRNAs shorter than 45 nucleotides . Based on sequence alignments and sequence motifs shared by Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  and siRNAs , we propose that siRNAs are typically generated by a single internal DCL3 cleavage event whose position is measured from either end of a short P4R2 RNA . Previously published RNA blot analyses have shown that in dcl3 null mutants , loss of 24 and 23 nt siRNAs is accompanied by accumulation of RNAs longer than 25 nt but typically shorter than 50 nt  . A prime example is the intergenic region that separates tandemly arranged 5S ribosomal RNA  genes , where RNAs of ∼26–45 nt accumulate in dcl3 null mutants  . These longer RNAs accumulate to their highest levels in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants , in which multiple siRNA processing pathways are impaired  . The longer RNAs that accumulate in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants fail to accumulate in the absence of Pol IV  or RDR2  . This indicates that Pol IV and RDR2 are each required for the biogenesis of the longer RNAs , paralleling their requirement for 24 and 23 nt siRNA biogenesis  . The longer RNAs  are also reduced in abundance if Pol V or AGO4 are mutated in the dcl2/3/4 triple mutant background  , analogous to the degree to which siRNA levels are reduced , but not eliminated , in ago4 or pol V single mutants  . These observations are consistent with Pol V and AGO4 being important , but not essential , for biogenesis of the majority of 23/24 nt siRNAs  , most likely due to their roles in establishing or maintaining DNA and histone methylation marks that recruit Pol IV to its sites of action  . RNA blot analyses of 24 nt siRNAs and their precursors . The small RNA blot was successively hybridized to probes representing either strand of the siR1003 duplex , a small interfering RNA  that is derived from intergenic regions separating 5S ribosomal RNA  gene repeats  , as well as to a trans-acting siRNA  and a microRNA  probe . RNA blot of small RNAs isolated from wild-type  or dcl2 dcl3 dcl4 triple mutant  plants , with or without prior treatment with ribonuclease V1 or ribonuclease A . RNA isolated from wild-type  or from dcl2/3/4 triple mutant plants was incubated with anti-FLAG resin that had been incubated with protein extraction buffer , a cell-free extract of wild-type  plants , or a cell-free extract of transgenic plants expressing FLAG-tagged DCL3 . RNAs were then purified , subjected to blotting and hybridized to the siR1003 ‘sense’ probe . 004 Pol IV and RDR2-dependent >25 nt RNAs  hybridize to 5S gene intergenic region probes corresponding to either DNA strand , as do homologous siRNAs  . Moreover , the P4R2 RNAs are more sensitive to ribonuclease V1 , which preferentially degrades dsRNAs , than to ribonuclease A , which preferentially digests single-stranded RNAs  . We next tested whether P4R2 RNAs that accumulate in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants are substrates for DCL3 . In this experiment , RNA isolated from dcl2/3/4 triple mutant plants was incubated with FLAG-tagged DCL3 that had been affinity purified from transgenic plants using anti-FLAG resin . In parallel control reactions , dcl2/3/4 RNA was incubated with anti-FLAG resin that had been incubated with a cell-free lysate of non-transgenic plants  , or with anti-FLAG resin in reaction buffer with no added proteins  . Incubation of RNA from dcl2/3/4 plants with affinity-purified FLAG-DCL3 resulted in the digestion of the >25 nt P4R2 RNAs into 24 nt RNA products  . Collectively , the observations that P4R2 RNAs hybridize to probes representing both DNA strands , are sensitive to dsRNA-specific ribonuclease , and are processed into 24 nt RNAs by exogenous DCL3 supports the conclusion that P4R2 RNAs are the immediate precursors of 24 nt siRNAs in vivo . To identify RNAs that accumulate when dicing is abrogated , we gel-purified ∼15–90 nt RNAs from wild-type  , dcl2/3/4 , pol IV  or rdr2 mutants and conducted RNA sequencing  analyses using Illumina deep sequencing technology , performing two biological replicates for each sample  . In wild-type plants  , 24 and 23 nt siRNAs represent the most abundant small RNA class , as expected , outnumbering unique 21 nt small RNA species , which include miRNAs as well as siRNAs , by approximately 10-fold  . In dcl2/3/4 triple mutants , the small RNA profile is substantially altered . Because DCL1-dependent 21 nt RNAs are unaffected , they become the most abundant small RNA class in dcl2/3/4 mutants . The dramatic loss of 23 and 24 nt siRNAs in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants coincides with the occurrence of longer RNAs , mostly smaller than 45 nucleotides and displaying a peak at ∼30 nt  . These genome-wide RNA-seq results correlate closely with the RNA blot hybridization results observed in Figure 2 at 5S rRNA gene loci . Indeed , a browser display of RNA-seq results focused on the region that corresponds to the 5S probes used for Figure 2  shows that RNAs that accumulate in dcl2/3/4 mutants range in size from 26–42 nt , with a mean size of 30 nt  . These >25 nt RNAs represent both DNA strands and overlap extensively with 24 and 23 nt siRNAs . We conclude that the >25 nt RNAs that accumulate in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants represent one or both strands of P4R2 duplex RNAs . RNA sequencing statistics . 24dcl2/3/4  261188 . 03nrpd1-3  322089 . 75rdr2-1  350088 . 32dcl2/3/4  302988 . 50nrpd1-3  301488 . 54rdr2-1  330188 . 71dcl2/3/4  8 , 440 , 6637 , 179 , 44485 . 94nrpd1-3  8 , 966 , 8727 , 799 , 16086 . 02rdr2-1  9 , 261 , 6838 , 081 , 91187 . 72dcl2/3/4  10 , 119 , 9128 , 570 , 31384 . 31nrpd1-3  10 , 285 , 0649 , 096 , 52888 . 56rdr2-1  9 , 970 , 7018 , 793 , 49288 . Small RNA size profiles in wild-type and dcl2 dcl3 dcl4  triple mutants . Figure 3—figure supplement 1 provides related data , showing the total numbers of unique 15–94 nt RNA sequences  detected in wild-type or dcl2/3/4 mutants . Number of unique sequences among RNAs of 15–94 nt in wild-type or dcl2 dcl3 dcl4  triple mutants . RNAs representing a specific sequence and a particular strand polarity were counted only once , regardless of the actual abundance of RNA sequencing  reads for that sequence in the dataset . RNA-seq counts for wild-type are shown in blue . RNA-seq counts for dcl2 dcl3 dcl4 mutants are shown in orange . Browser view of Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  and 24/23 nt small interfering RNA  in the intergenic spacer region of a 5S ribosomal RNA  gene repeat unit . Each bar represents a specific RNA sequence , with arrows depicting the RNA strand orientation relative to the reference genome sequence  . 009 Although P4R2 RNAs accumulate to their highest levels in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants , as visualized in the RNA blots of Figure 2 , they are also detected by RNA-seq in wild-type plants . In each case , P4R2 RNAs whose positions correspond closely to those of abundant 23 and 24 nt siRNAs  are readily detected in dcl2/3/4 mutants and in Col-0 , but are absent in pol IV or rdr2 null mutants , confirming a requirement for both Pol IV and RDR2 for P4R2 RNA biogenesis . Genome-wide , at least 5500 genomic intervals to which 24 nt siRNAs map have overlapping 26-94 nt P4R2 RNAs that are detectable in Col-0 , and typically increase in abundance in dcl2/3/4 mutants , but are absent , or substantially reduced , in pol IV or rdr2 null mutants in one or both biological replicates  . Importantly , the number of mapped RNA-seq reads was similar for the Col-0 , dcl2/3/4 , pol IV and rdr2 RNA-seq datasets  . Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  are dependent on both Pol IV and RDR2 . Browser views of three 24 nt small interfering RNA  loci at which abundant P4R2 RNAs that accumulate in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4  mutants are also observed in wild-type plants  but not in nrpd1  or rdr2 mutants . Vertical dotted lines provide alignments between abundant siRNAs and the P4R2 RNAs . P4R2 RNAs that are 40 nt or longer are shown in shades of pink . RNAs of 25-39 nt are shown in shades of blue . Supplementary file 1 provides a table with coordinates for thousands of 100 bp genomic intervals in which 24 nt siRNA loci and putative P4R2 RNAs are detected in wild-type and dcl2/3/4 , but are depleted in nrpd1 and rdr2 mutants . P4R2 RNAs are co-dependent on Pol IV and RDR2 . Browser views of three additional 24 nt small interfering RNA  loci at which Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  that accumulate in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4  mutants are also observed in wild-type  plants  but are not observed in nrpd1 polymerase IV  or rdr2 mutants . 011 Consistent with the genome browser views of Figures 4 and 5 , P4R2 RNAs that accumulate in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants show a high degree of correspondence to 24 and 23 nt siRNA sequences , genome-wide . To simplify the discussion we focus solely on 24 nt siRNAs . Ninety-six percent of P4R2 RNAs identified in dcl2/3/4 mutants fully encompass or overlap 24 nt siRNA sequences  . confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to be capable of generating Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs  . Sequence relationships between Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  and small interfering RNA  . Correspondence between P4R2 RNA and siRNA loci . P4R2 RNAs were mapped to the Arabidopsis reference genome  and the frequency at which 24 nt siRNAs overlap these P4R2 genomic positions was calculated . , 2015 to generate Pol IV-dependent transcripts . P4R2 RNA and 24 nt siRNA spatial relationships . The top panel shows the frequency distribution of P4R2 RNA 5’ end positions relative to siRNA 5’ ends . At position zero on the x-axis , P4R2 RNAs and siRNAs share the same 5’ terminus . The lower panel shows the frequency with which P4R2 RNAs and siRNAs align at 3’ ends . At position zero on the x-axis , P4R2 RNAs and siRNAs share the same 3’ terminus . Negative values occur when P4R2 RNAs end upstream of siRNA 3’ ends , and positive values occur when P4R2 RNAs end downstream of siRNA 3’ ends  . 012 We next examined how P4R2 RNAs and their matching siRNAs align with one another . The slight skewing  of the alignment profiles in Figure 6B indicates that siRNAs whose ends do not precisely coincide with the ends of P4R2 RNAs tend to be internal to P4R2 RNAs . To further explore the observation that siRNAs are preferentially derived from the 5’ or 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs , we searched for sequence motifs that might be common to the ends of P4R2 RNAs and siRNAs . Most 24 nt siRNAs begin with an adenosine  at the 5’ end  , which has been thought to reflect the RNA binding specificity of AGO4  . Aside from this difference , the 5’ ends of P4R2 RNAs and 24 nt siRNAs display intriguing similarities . Sequence features of 24 nt small interfering RNAs  and Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNA  precursors . Frequencies at which the four nucleotides are present at the 5’ terminus of 20–25 nt small RNAs in wild-type  plants or at the 5’ termini of P4R2 RNAs in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4 triple mutants  . Sequence logos for chromosomal DNA sequences corresponding to all 24 nt siRNAs  , all P4R2 RNAs , P4R2 RNAs that begin with adenosine  or P4R2 RNAs that begin with guanosine  . The P4R2 logos were generated using dcl2/3/4 triple mutant data . The logos include three nucleotides upstream and three nucleotides downstream of the chromosomal DNA sequences that match the RNAs . Each unique RNA sequence is represented only once in the input data . Figure 7—figure supplement 1 provides sequence logos for P4R2 RNAs of varying length , showing that consensus sequences are consistent among these RNAs . Sequence logos for Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  of different lengths . 014 At their 3’ ends , 24 nt siRNAs preferentially end with a uracil  , with the order of nucleotide preference at this 3’ terminal position being U > C > A . Interestingly , a larger  consensus , ACU can be discerned at the 3’ end of P4R2 RNAs  . Interestingly , P4R2 RNAs that begin with A account for the weak 3’ ACU consensus that is detected in analyses of total P4R2 RNAs . Interestingly , U > C > A is the same nucleotide preference order observed at the 3’ termini of 24 nt siRNAs . Collectively , these observations suggest that P4R2 RNAs that begin with A might tend to give rise to 24 nt siRNAs from their 5’ ends , whereas P4R2 RNAs that begin with G might tend to give rise to 24 nt siRNAs from their 3’ ends . demonstrating that DCL3 preferentially cleaves dsRNAs with A or U at the 5’ end  . Pol IV , like Pol II , will initiate transcription from single-stranded oligonucleotide DNA templates in vitro  . To assess the sizes of RNA transcripts that Pol IV is capable of making in vitro , as well as the possibility that Pol IV may initiate or terminate transcription with favored nucleotides , we used a 7249 nt single-stranded bacteriophage M13 genome as a DNA template and compared transcripts made by affinity-purified Pol IV or II  . For this experiment , Pol IV and II were affinity purified by virtue of FLAG epitope tags fused to the C-termini of their NRPD1 or NRPB2 subunits , respectively  . Previous immunoblot and mass spectrometry studies have shown that affinity-purified Pols II and IV are free of contaminating RNA polymerases  . In the case of FLAG-tagged Pol IV , the NRPD1-FLAG transgene was expressed in an nrpd1 rdr2 null mutant background  , precluding any potentially confounding results due to transcription by associated RDR2 . Pol IV transcripts generated in vitro share features of Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  in vivo . Size and frequency of RNAs transcribed by polymerase  IV or II in vitro . Pol IV and Pol II were affinity purified by virtue of FLAG epitope tags fused to the C-termini of the NRPD1 or NRPB2 subunits , respectively . In the case of Pol IV , the transgenic NRPD1-FLAG line is null for the endogenous NRPD1 and RDR2 genes , such that Pol IV is free of associated RDR2 . Transcripts generated using closed-circular single-stranded M13 virus as the DNA template were subjected to RNA-seq . Sequence logos for the 5’ and 3’ ends of Pol IV and II in vitro transcripts . RNA-seq , RNA sequencing . 015 RNA-seq analyses revealed that Pol IV and II each initiate transcription in a mostly unbiased manner with respect to position on the circular M13 genome , with Pol IV and II each initiating at more than 2000 positions . The size profiles of RNAs synthesized by Pol IV or II differ , with Pol IV transcripts having mean and median lengths of 44 and 37 nt , respectively , and Pol II transcripts having mean and median lengths of 85 and 68 nt  . The 5’ ends of Pol IV and II transcripts are similar , each initiating with a purine just downstream of a pyrimidine , as is typical of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases  , but with Pol IV transcripts also displaying a tendency to have A or G at the +2 RNA position  . Interestingly , Pol IV transcripts in vitro tend to end with a C or U  , reminiscent of the tendency to have a U or C  at the 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs in vivo . But unlike P4R2 RNAs in vivo , Pol IV in vitro transcripts have a very strong preference for an A at the template position immediately downstream of the RNA 3’ end  . A genome browser view of P4R2 precursor RNAs aligned with 24 nt siRNAs at an AtSN1 retrotransposon located on chromosome 3 , a target of RNA-directed DNA methylation we have examined in numerous previous studies  , is shown in Figure 9A . As is readily apparent , the 3’ terminal nucleotide of P4R2 RNAs and 24 nt siRNAs sometimes does not match the expected sequence . Approximately 5% of all P4R2 RNAs have such 3’ mismatched nucleotides . A graphical depiction of mismatch frequency at each nucleotide position for RNAs of discrete lengths , from 15 nt  to 76 nt  , is shown in Figure 9B . To generate this plot , background mismatch/error levels  observed at each position for each RNA size class in RNAs of wild-type plants were subtracted from the values obtained for RNAs of the same length in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants . An enrichment of mismatched nucleotides at the 3’ terminal position of 24 nt RNAs and at the 3’ ends of RNAs longer than 26 nt is readily apparent , with the strongest signals observed among RNAs of 26–37 nt , closely matching the peak size distribution of P4R2 RNAs . 3’ mismatches detected in 24 nt siRNAs and Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  may reflect RDR2 terminal transferase activity . Genome browser view of P4R2 RNAs  and 24 nt small interfering RNA   at a representative locus , an AtSN1 retrotransposon on chromosome 3 . The intensity of shading reflects the abundance of each RNA species in the RNA-seq dataset . The dotted line highlights the coincident 5’ ends of the most abundant P4R2 RNAs at the locus  and the most abundant siRNAs  . Heat map depicting the frequency of mismatched nucleotides at each position of RNAs ranging in size from 15 to 76 nt in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4 triple mutant plants . Over-expression and purification of recombinant RDR2 . For RDR2 detection , rabbit anti-RDR2 primary antibody was used in conjunction with donkey anti-rabbit HRP-conjugated secondary antibody . RDR2 terminal transferase activity . Recombinant RDR2 or an active-site mutant form of RDR2  was incubated with alpha-labeled 32P-CTP and 51 nt RNA substrates bearing 3’ hydroxyl or 3’ dideoxy termini . RNA size markers were run in lane M . The 51 nt RNA template , 5’ end-labeled using T4 polynucleotide kinase , was run as a size marker in the lane at far right . As shown in Figure 9D , RDR2 has terminal transferase activity . In the experiment shown , a 51 nt RNA was incubated with recRDR2 and radioactive , alpha-labeled 32P-CTP , but no other nucleoside triphosphates . RDR2 catalyzes the addition of one or two non-templated radioactive cytosines to the 3’ end of the RNA  . The end-label added by RDR2 is sensitive to RNase 1 , indicating that labeling occurs in the context of single-stranded RNA  . Analogous terminal transferase activity has not been detected in Pol IV fractions . Collectively , these results suggest that the 3’ mismatches observed at low frequency among P4R2 RNAs might be telltale signs of RDR2 terminal transferase activity , potentially acting on completed Pol IV transcripts , RDR2 transcripts , or both . A recent study reported the identification of Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs whose characteristics included a 5’-monophosphate group , a correspondence to known 24 nt siRNA-producing loci and accumulation in dcl2/3/4 triple mutants  . matching P4R2 RNAs from our study . , but indicate that the vast majority of Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs are smaller than 45 nt  . Dozens of P4R2 RNAs can overlap at a given locus , as shown in Figures 4 and 5 , but we conclude that individual P4R2 RNAs represent individual Pol IV-RDR2 transcription units . Our data indicate that the short double-stranded P4R2 RNAs that accumulate in dcl3 mutants are the immediate precursors of siRNAs , based on the ability of DCL3 to cut these precursors into 24 nt RNAs in vitro . , who showed that DCL3 preferentially cleaves short synthetic dsRNAs of 30–50 nt , but not longer RNAs  . Our analyses indicate that 24 nt siRNAs are preferentially generated from the 5’ or 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs , suggesting that P4R2 duplex RNAs can be diced from either end , also in agreement with Nagano et al . Generation of siRNAs from the ends of P4R2 RNAs , rather than from internal sequences , leads to the prediction that each P4R2 RNA sequence has limited capacity to specify multiple alternative siRNAs . Consistent with this prediction , our sequenced datasets included 1 , 055 , 471 unique 23 or 24 nt siRNA sequences  and 933 , 453 unique P4R2 RNAs of 26–94 nt  . An expectation is that if Pol IV generates single-stranded RNAs that serve as templates for RDR2 , these transcripts would accumulate in an rdr2 mutant and be detectable on RNA blots using sense or antisense probes that detect abundant siRNAs  . Alternatively , if RDR2 were to act upstream of Pol IV , which is contrary to current models , but a formal possibility , one might similarly expect to detect RDR2 transcripts in a pol IV mutant . However , our RNA blot results  defy these predictions , as do the RNA-seq data for pol IV and rdr2 mutants . Instead , precursors are depleted if either RDR2 or Pol IV is absent . This suggests that Pol IV and RDR2 are each required for the synthesis of both strands of P4R2 RNA duplexes , as was also noted by Li et al . , which fits with the physical association of Pol IV and RDR2 and the hypothesis that the two enzymes function as a complex  . We have shown previously that RDR2 activity detected in vitro using affinity-purified Pol IV–RDR2 complexes from wild-type plants is not apparent using RDR2 affinity purified from a pol IV mutant  . Although Pol IV isolated from an rdr2 null mutant is active in vitro  , it is possible that Pol IV may require RDR2 association for activity in vivo . An important ramification of Pol IV and RDR2 co-dependence is that it is unclear if the P4R2 RNAs we cloned and sequenced in our study represent Pol IV transcripts , RDR2 transcripts , or both . Although we detect P4R2 RNAs corresponding to both strands at many  loci , as can be seen in the browser displays of Figures 4 , 5 and 9A , these could be transcripts of only Pol IV or , conversely , only RDR2 . Sequences enriched at the ends of P4R2 RNAs preclude easy assignment of which polymerase generated them . The terminal transferase activity inherent to RDR2 provides a plausible explanation for mismatched , untemplated nucleotides at the 3’ ends of some  P4R2 RNAs , but this activity could modify completed RNA transcripts made by Pol IV , RDR2 , or both . This pyrimidine–purine rule is a characteristic of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases , in general , and has a structural basis that involves base-stacking interactions between the initiating  RNA nucleotide  and −1 DNA template nucleotide  , in addition to the base-pairing that occurs between the +1 RNA and +1 DNA template bases  . The pyrimidine–purine rule has been shown to apply to protein-coding genes throughout the Arabidopsis genome  , to Arabidopsis pre-rRNAs transcribed by multisubunit RNA Pol I  and to 5S genes transcribed by RNA polymerase III  . Our in vitro transcription studies using affinity-purified Pol IV or Pol II also recapitulate the pyrimidine–purine rule . Moreover , Pol IV generates relatively short RNAs in vitro , with size distributions and 3’ ends resembling those of P4R2 RNAs . Collectively , these observations suggest that P4R2 RNA biogenesis is initiated by Pol IV , as depicted in Figure 10 , with limited processivity of Pol IV accounting for the relatively short size of P4R2 RNAs . In our model , designed to account for the consensus sequences of P4R2 RNAs and 24 nt siRNAs  , Pol IV generates first strands that initiate with a purine . Those RNAs that initiate with A best account for siRNA 5’ end sequences , whereas RNAs that initiate with G best account for siRNA 3’ end sequences , suggesting that resulting duplexes , following second strand synthesis by RDR2 , are diced from opposite ends . Because first strand RNAs that begin with G tend to end with U , their complementary strands would tend to begin with A . Model for the biogenesis of 24 nt small interfering RNAs  via single dicing events . Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs  tend to begin with a purine  at position 1 , adjacent to what would be a T at position −1 in the corresponding DNA strand and an A  at position 2 . A similar signature is detected at the 5’ end of 24 nt siRNAs  , except that only A  is enriched at the 5’ terminus of these siRNAs . Thus , DICER-like 3  cleavage measured from the 5’ adenosine of those P4R2 RNAs that begin with A could account for the similar 5’ end sequences of P4R2 RNAs and 24 nt siRNAs . P4R2 RNAs that begin with A tend to end with ACU , which is not reflected in siRNAs . However , P4R2 RNAs that begin with G tend to end with a 3’ U , with U > C > A being the order of preference , which matches the 3’ end consensus for 24 nt siRNAs . DCL3 dicing , measured from this 5’ A , would liberate a top strand  whose 3’ end could account for the 3’ consensus  of 24 nt siRNAs . thaliana mutants rdr2-1 , nrpd1-3  and nrpe1-11  were described in Xie et al . The single mutants dcl2-5 , dcl3-1 , and dcl4-2; double mutants dcl2-5 dcl3-1  , dcl2-5 dcl4-2  and dcl3-1 dcl4-2  ; and the triple mutant dcl2-5 dcl3-1 dcl4-2  were described in  . Genetic crosses between dcl2/3/4 and above-mentioned single mutants were performed to generate the quadruple mutants: rdr2-1 dcl2-5 dcl3-1 dcl4-2 , nrpd1-3 dcl2-5 dcl3-1 dcl4-2 , nrpe1-11 dcl2-5 dcl3-1 dcl4-2 and ago4-7 dcl2-5 dcl3-1 dcl4-2 . A transgenic plant line in which the dcl3-1 mutant was complemented by a full-length DCL3 genomic clone engineered to possess a FLAG epitope tag at the C terminus  was previously described  . Size standards were synthetic RNA oligonucleotides of 15 , 21 , 24 , 30 , and 50 nt lengths . Custom libraries for ∼15–90 nt RNAs were constructed and sequenced by Fasteris SA  . The desired RNA size-range was excised and eluted , and 3’ and 5’ adapters were added according to the ligation-based Illumina small RNA-seq protocol . RNA-seq statistics are provided in Table 1 . For subsequent genomic analyses tRNAs , small nuclear RNAs  and small nucleolar RNAs  were excluded from datasets based on their TAIR10 annotation coordinates . RNA-seq reads of ∼15–94 nt  were mapped to the Arabidopsis thaliana genome  using Bowtie v0 . Total RNA  was extracted from wild-type  or dcl2/3/4 triple mutant inflorescence tissue and size-fractionated  to obtain substrates for DCL3 activity assays . The precipitated RNA was washed twice in 75% ethanol , resuspended in loading buffer and analyzed by RNA blot hybridization . Pols II and IV were immunoprecipitated from transgenic lines expressing NRPB2-FLAG or NRPD1-FLAG , respectively , as described previously  . For Pol IV , the washed NRPD1-FLAG resin was brought to a final volume of 50 μl CB100 . The samples were then treated with Terminator exonuclease  to remove potentially degraded RNAs with 5’ monophosphates , cleaned with RNA Clean and Concentrator kit  , and then treated with RNA 5’ Polyphosphatase  to convert 5’ triphosphate groups to monophosphates . RDR2 terminal transferase assays were performed according to  with some modifications . RDR2 or RDR2-ASM  was added to activity buffer containing 20 mM HEPES-KOH  , 0 . RNA products were ethanol precipitated and separated on a denaturing 15% polyacrylamide gel . The RNase treatment assay was conducted using a 20 µl RDR2 reaction with 0 . 
Mature neural networks synchronize and integrate spatiotemporal activity patterns to support cognition . Emergence of these activity patterns and functions is believed to be developmentally regulated , but the postnatal time course for neural networks to perform complex computations remains unknown . We reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development . The transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence , after which spatially distributed , temporally precise , and internally organized activity occurs . We hypothesize that this transient quiescent period is a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks . Neural networks enable precise spatiotemporal coordination of synaptic and cellular activity in mature brain functions  . How immature neural networks develop into their mature form needed for the complex computations underlying cognition remains poorly understood . The first organized and predominant pattern of neural activity that appears in cortical circuits across species is a spindle-like oscillation  that occurs intermittently on a background of relative neural inactivity . Known as spindle bursts in rodents and delta brushes in humans , this immature network activity is commonly triggered by peripheral stimuli  . Spindle bursts are characteristic of the first postnatal week of rodent development , and delta brushes disappear shortly after term in human neonates  , emphasizing their transient role in network maturation . In contrast , mature cortex exhibits perpetual , complex patterns of neural activity that appear and interact across a wide range of frequencies  . The organization of this activity creates precise spatiotemporal windows for neural synchronization , enabling plasticity processes and generation of neural sequences  . We hypothesized that emergence of these advanced neural network properties could be heralded by the disappearance of immature activity patterns . Together , such modifications could prime a shift in network operating mode , setting the stage for re-emergence of a different oscillation that occupies a similar frequency band , thalamocortical sleep spindles . In contrast to spindle bursts , these oscillations are characteristic of the offline state of non-rapid eye movement  sleep only , and they facilitate memory consolidation  . To investigate this hypothesis , we examined neural network dynamics across early rodent and human development . We targeted epochs spanning disappearance of immature activity and emergence of mature sleep patterns in each species . We found that the transition between immature and mature network dynamics was characterized by unexpectedly decreased coordinated cellular and synaptic activity at the beginning of the second postnatal week . Analysis of continuous electroencephalography  recordings from human subjects , 36–69 weeks post-gestation , revealed a similar developmental trajectory characterized by a transient decrease in neural activity prior to onset of spatiotemporal oscillatory coupling . To identify and characterize emergence of advanced neural network properties in the developing brain , we acquired high spatiotemporal resolution electrophysiological recordings from somatosensory cortex of unanesthetized mouse pups aged postnatal day  5 to 14  , an epoch that spans the transition from immature to mature activity patterns during sleep . We ensured electrodes used for analysis were located in somatosensory cortex by postmortem histology . This histology-based electrode grouping corresponded to spatial localization of electrophysiological activity patterns , identifying electrodes recording from somatosensory cortex  . To additionally capture neural spiking patterns across cortical layers , we stereotactically implanted silicon probes  in somatosensory cortex of a separate cohort  . Immunohistochemistry of coronal slices from these brains verified probe placement within somatosensory cortex , permitted allocation of recording electrodes to cortical layers  , and demonstrated transcortical neural spiking patterns  . We expected that physiologically significant features of neural network maturation would be conserved across species . Thus , in parallel , we obtained continuous EEG recordings from normal human subjects 36–69 weeks post-gestation  , an epoch that similarly spans the transition from immature to mature activity patterns of human sleep and can be mapped to corresponding timepoints of rodent brain development  . We first identified epochs of artifact-free behavioral immobility consistent with sleep in the pups  and compared the activity present with human sleep EEG . Sleep in the youngest mouse pups  was characterized by irregular , discontinuous bursts of neural activity  . The predominant activity was organized into spindle bursts , oscillations characteristic of developing rodent sensory cortex  . Sleep in the youngest human subjects recorded was also discontinuous , and contained delta brushes , an oscillatory pattern that develops by 26 weeks post-gestation and disappears around 40–44 weeks  . Delta brushes share morphological and frequency characteristics with spindle bursts . Sleep patterns changed profoundly with maturation in both species . More mature mouse pups exhibited nearly continuous patterns during sleep , an absence of spindle bursts , and the appearance of sleep spindles , which are well-characterized oscillations of NREM sleep  . Human sleep was similarly continuous , and sleep spindles appear during NREM between 1 and 2 months after term in infants  . This mature sleep in rodents and humans is predominantly governed by internally generated dynamics  . In contrast , self-generated or evoked movements during sleep are closely associated with local field potential  activity in somatosensory cortex of immature rodents and humans  . We confirmed that the association between muscular twitches and changes in LFP power  or detectable spindle band oscillations  decreased as the pups matured . These marked similarities in the electrophysiological features of neural activity during sleep across development suggest the possibility of evolutionarily conserved mechanisms of neural network maturation . To investigate how this maturation occurs , we examined the macrostructure of sleep LFP with fine temporal precision over early pup development  . Mature sleep can be classified into distinct stages  based on electrophysiological criteria , but these indicators do not reliably differentiate the immature analogues of these states  until after P11  . Therefore , we focused on periods of behavioral and EMG quiescence that lasted for longer than 10 s  , with the goal of preferentially analyzing the transition of quiet sleep  into NREM sleep  . Unexpectedly , recordings across development revealed an epoch of relative neural quiescence at the beginning of the second postnatal week  that corresponded to decreased spectral power and absence of prominent activity at physiological frequencies  . We hypothesized that this quiescence could be related to a transient decrease in the continuity of the neural signal or the power of the activity that was present . Continuity of neural activity was quantified by determining the duration of neural activity above the wideband noise floor . Although continuity increased markedly from the youngest to most mature animals , we found a decrease in the duration of continuous neural activity that corresponded to the identified period of spectral quiescence  . When we extracted the average wideband power of the continuous activity that was present at each developmental day , there was also a transient nadir at this timepoint  . Bootstrapping data within each developmental day localized probability of nadir in continuity and power at the beginning of the second postnatal week with likelihood far exceeding the distribution obtained by bootstrapping across days  . We tested the possibility that the quiescence could be related to a shift in proportion of time spent in each sleep state , a decrease in self-generated sleep movements , or differential recovery from anesthesia across ages . Recovery from anesthesia was determined individually for each pup , and there was no difference in post-anesthesia stability of oscillation occurrence rate or neural spiking across pups  . Therefore , sleep LFP macrostructure expresses a nonlinear pattern of development that is characterized by a discrete period of relative neural quiescence occurring at the beginning of the second postnatal week . Rate and synchrony of neural spiking strongly contribute to expression of LFP patterns . We hypothesized that changes in neural spiking patterns could accompany the transient quiescent period . Spiking activity was detected in recordings obtained using implantable silicon probes from two non-contiguous sites  within the deep layers of cortex  and one site within the superficial layers of cortex  per pup recording  . We first calculated rates of neural spiking only during epochs of above-threshold LFP activity to eliminate effects related to LFP discontinuity . We found that neural spiking increased nonlinearly over the course of development , again with a significant nadir at the beginning of the second postnatal week as quantified using a bootstrapping method  . These data suggest that lowered intracortical synaptic drive could contribute to the nadir in LFP patterns at the beginning of the second postnatal week . ISI duration decreased nonlinearly across development , with the longest ISI duration occurring in pups at the beginning of the second postnatal week  . During mature NREM sleep , there is alternation between periods of neural spiking and hyperpolarization that serves to synchronize neural populations and is implicated in memory consolidation  . We examined population spiking dynamics in the developing cortex by computing the autocorrelation of spiking activity , which permits quantification of neural synchrony over durations relevant to this slow oscillation  . These data implicate that the transient quiescent period demarcates a transition in population spiking that initiates development of a cycle of longer scale network synchronization characteristic of the dynamics observed during mature sleep  . We then sought to understand the functional relevance of this quiescent transition period to network operations . We detected spindle band oscillations , which were present in pups of all ages , to facilitate comparisons . We quantified spatial extent using the two-dimensional organization of the NeuroGrid to determine the proportion of electrodes expressing co-occurring spindle band oscillations with a reference electrode located in primary somatosensory cortex  . Spindle band oscillations in the most immature pups were high power and had a substantially asymmetric waveform , but were expressed over a restricted cortical area  . In contrast , spindle band oscillations in the most mature pups were lower power and more symmetric , but could variably be detected over a larger spatial extent  . Given these observed differences in oscillatory parameters , we asked to what extent they could be used to classify the developmental stage at which the oscillations occurred . A coarse tree model based on spatial extent and waveform asymmetry of manually identified oscillations was effectively trained to classify individual spindle band oscillations as originating from immature  or mature  pups with 92 . Spindle band oscillations that occurred during the transient quiescent period at the beginning of the second postnatal week were not consistently classified into either group , instead displaying a unique combination of oscillatory parameters: large spatial extent , low power , and intermediate waveform asymmetry  . These data indicate that oscillations are transformed at the beginning of the second postnatal week , potentially reflecting a transition in neural network function from consistently highly localized cortical processing to capacity for broader , tuned recruitment of neural activity . Oscillations in the adult brain precisely organize neural activity across spatial and temporal scales . The marked shift in oscillatory properties that we observed at the beginning of the second postnatal week suggested that this organizational capacity may also be developmentally regulated . We first investigated the relationship of spindle band activity with other frequencies by detecting epochs of sustained increase in spindle band power and calculating measures of amplitude cross-frequency coupling . Spindle band epochs in the most immature animals  demonstrated high comodulation across a broad , non-specific range of frequencies , in contrast to frequency-specific comodulation expressed in mature animals  . Specific , discrete frequency bands that demonstrated significant temporal coupling with spindle band oscillations emerged only after P8–9 . Taken together , these results suggest that immature networks lack the capacity to couple discrete frequency bands , whereas after the beginning of the second postnatal week such capacity emerges , potentially signaling a developmental shift in the function of oscillations . Furthermore , oscillations facilitate neural communication by biasing spike occurrence to particular phases of the oscillatory waveform . Spindle band oscillations recruited neural spiking above baseline rates to a variable extent across development , with the lowest amount of recruitment occurring at the beginning of the second postnatal week  . These results reinforce the notion of enhanced information processing capacity in cortical networks after a rapid transitional period at the beginning of the second postnatal week . Thus , multiple LFP and neural spiking measures followed a similar highly nonlinear developmental trajectory marked by a key transition at the beginning of the second postnatal week in mouse pups . We next aimed to investigate whether this pattern of neural maturation was conserved across species . We analyzed epochs of clinically determined quiet/NREM sleep from each subject using data derived from electrodes overlying human somatosensory cortex  . Raw traces and normalized spectral analysis suggested an epoch of transient neural quiescence between 42 and 47 weeks  , akin to what we observed at the beginning of the second postnatal week in mice . To quantify these observations , we again used regression fitting to determine whether a nonlinear trajectory was present and bootstrapping of data within and between ages to identify any significant nadirs in neural activity patterns . Wideband power of oscillatory activity followed a highly nonlinear trajectory , with a significant nadir between 42 and 47 weeks  . Quantification of this aperiodic component of the power spectrum across ages similarly revealed a transient increase around the time of nadir in wideband power  . To assess properties of oscillatory activity in these subjects , we detected spindle band oscillations . Such oscillations were present in all ages , consistent with delta brushes in the youngest subjects and sleep spindles in the older subjects  . We calculated spatial extent of these oscillations as the co-occurrence of spindle band activity across EEG electrodes and found that this activity shifted from highly localized to broader cortical expression around an inflection point between 42 and 47 weeks  . We also found evidence for significant cross-frequency coupling of higher frequencies with the spindle band emerging after 47 weeks post-gestation  . Taken together , these data support the existence of a conserved transient quiescent period in development that bridges a dramatic shift in functional properties of neural networks . We demonstrate that maturation of cortical network dynamics is preceded by a discrete , relatively quiescent , evolutionarily conserved transition period during early postnatal development . During this period , oscillations and neural spiking display a nadir that signals the shift from local , loosely correlated , putatively sensory-driven patterns to internally organized , spatially distributed , and temporally precise activity . Because rodent neurodevelopment is temporally compressed relative to humans , an inflection epoch that lasts 1–2 days in mouse pups could conceivably extend over weeks in humans  . Oscillatory activities after the transition became nearly uninterrupted , exhibiting coupling at discrete frequency bands and increased waveform symmetry . Based on these similarities in oscillatory patterns , we infer that the neural spiking features we observe through invasive recordings in mouse pups could also extend to normally developing human infants , where such recordings are not possible . Neural spiking was more efficiently recruited to oscillatory activity with consistent , strong phase-locking , and higher temporal precision . These features are characteristic of adult neural networks engaged in information processing  . Our results suggest that the cortical network dynamics shift to permit temporally precise neural spiking after the transition period . Although recruitment of neural spiking during epochs of spindle burst oscillations in immature rodents likely co-activates neurons that share similar afferent inputs  , more precise coordination is required for establishment of flexible , defined neural assemblies  , and the capacity of circuits to express sequential activation of these assemblies is developmentally regulated  . We found that the neural population activity demonstrated correlated suppression over a progressively shorter duration  with maturation . When oscillations occur in discrete frequency bands , the possibility for complex comodulation arises . We demonstrated that prior to the transient quiescent period the dominant cortical oscillations  exhibit high comodulation extending from 1 to 100 Hz . During this period , broadband comodulation abruptly decreased and was subsequently replaced by discrete gamma oscillations . Therefore , the oscillatory infrastructure to support cross-frequency coupling arises concomitantly with fine time-scale neural spiking synchronization and robust phase-locking of these spikes to LFP , suggesting an emergence of adult-like information processing capacity at this developmental timepoint . Despite sharing a peak frequency , immature and mature spindle band oscillations are highly differentiable on the joint basis of waveform , power , and spatial extent . Comparison of oscillatory features can shed light on the functional capacity of the network . We found that although of high amplitude , spindle band frequency oscillations in the most immature mouse pups were highly and uniformly confined to localized regions of cortex  roughly corresponding to cortical columns  . During the transition period , spindle band oscillations in mouse pups had higher spatial extent , but markedly reduced amplitude , perhaps facilitated by increased intracortical synaptogenesis and maturation of corticothalamic afferents  . The transition period in humans was marked by transiently decreased spatial extent of spindle band oscillations , which we hypothesize is related to attenuation of low-power activity by the intervening tissue between cortical surface and scalp electrode . We observed that mature spindle band activity across species was characterized by increased and customizable spatial extent . Similar to our results in the spindle band , early gamma oscillations disappear around the beginning to the second postnatal week , to be later replaced with gamma rhythms characteristic of adult animals  . Furthermore , the least synchronous neural spiking activity in visual cortex occurred at the beginning of the second postnatal week , potentially in keeping with our decrease in temporal precision of spiking at this time  . Therefore , multiple lines of evidence support an abrupt change in cortical network function at the beginning of the second postnatal week . Functional inhibitory connections regulate physiological oscillations in mature neural networks enabling submillisecond precision of spike timing and facilitating inter-regional synchronization  . In contrast , interneurons do not substantially pace immature oscillations during the first postnatal week , though they can be recruited to and contribute to spatial properties of this activity  . This timepoint , derived from in vitro data , temporally overlaps with the onset of adult-like neural network activity we observe in vivo . Such a mechanism could underlie the known postnatal disappearance of the EEG bursts characteristics of trace alternant  , resulting in the observed low-voltage state with lack of organized oscillatory activity prior to emergence of mature NREM sleep patterns . Whether a period of quiescence is required for physiological transition to mature cortical processing remains unclear . In humans , neuronal dynamics suggestive of mature information processing mechanisms are established by 6 months of age  , and changes in sleep patterns have been identified as markers for brain connectivity from toddlers to adolescents  . Our results suggest that the capacity for these processes simultaneously emerges abruptly after a distinct transition period characterized by relative neural quiescence . Data from 108 Swiss-Webster mouse pups  that underwent intracranial implantation was used for neurophysiological analysis . Anesthesia was induced by hypothermia in ice for P5–6 pups and with 3% isoflurane for pups aged P7–14 . Pups recovered from anesthesia , as determined by recovery criteria including increase of heart rate to plateau and onset of sleep-wake cycling , for a minimum of 30 min before neurophysiological recordings were used for analysis . Raw recordings were downsampled to 1250 Hz to obtain LFPs , and band-pass filtered between 250 Hz and 2500 Hz for analysis of neural spiking . Sleep epochs were further classified as putative active or quiet sleep . Quiet sleep was identified when muscle atonia was paired with quiescence of behavior for at least 10 consecutive seconds . Active sleep was identified by myoclonic twitches that occurred on a background of muscle atonia . Similar approaches have been shown to correlate with electrophysiological markers of active and quiet sleep , and have been used for state-dependent developmental analyses  . Corrected gestational age , rounded to the nearest week , was used to classify patient age . Recordings always included both waking and sleep epochs . To measure periodic and aperiodic properties of human neural data , power spectra were extracted using multi-taper method  and modeled using ‘fitting oscillations and one over f’  . For human data , we resampled within each 1–2 weeks . Spindle band oscillations were detected based on wavelet-derived power and duration parameters . Intervals of oscillatory activity containing spindle band power were first detected and a ratio of normalized autoregressive wavelet  -based PAR was then calculated to identify discrete spindle band oscillations . Oscillatory intervals were detected by comparing the spindle band power  of 8–25 Hz with threshold . 6745 ) in the sleep intervals . PAR was then calculated based on the following equation:PAR=Pspi-  Pspi+Plow+Phighwhere spindle band power  was based on 8–25 Hz , low band power was based on 1–5 Hz  , and high band power was based on 30–80 Hz  . Spindle band events were identified when the ratio crossed –0 . In human EEG data , spindle band oscillations were detected across all channels as in mice , using a constant threshold relative to median absolute deviation ( median  0 . 6745 ) in the intervals of quiet/NREM sleep and PAR was calculated as above . For subjects aged less than 40 weeks , the low band power was based on 2–6 Hz to aid with accurate detection of delta brushes . The channel with maximal oscillation power in the spindle band was selected for further analysis . Spindle band oscillations were characterized by their power , spatial extent , and spindle asymmetry  . Power was calculated by bandpass filtering each spindle band oscillation between 8 and 25 Hz . The median value of each spindle band oscillation was defined as its power . Spatial extent was calculated by determining the number of channels simultaneous expressing spindle band oscillations with a manually selected channel located in primary somatosensory cortex for mice and the channel with the highest spindle band power for humans  . To quantify the sharpness of each spindle band oscillation’s peak and trough , they were first broadly bandpass filtered at 5–30 Hz . Extrema mean sharpness ratios  were calculated as a metric to quantify the sharpness asymmetry of each spindle . Comodulograms of cross-frequency coupling were computed based on a Gabor wavelet of raw data around the time of spindle band oscillation  , followed by a Gaussian window convolution with duration matched to the frequency . Columns of the correlation matrix corresponding to spindle band  were extracted and summated to obtain a curve representing the magnitude of frequency coupling to this band . Neural spiking was detected on each channel by thresholding negative peaks greater than four times the high-pass filtered noise floor during epochs of sleep . ISIs for the neural population were calculated as the absolute time between sorted spike times within the zone . To derive spike phase-locking to spindle band oscillations , the oscillatory epochs were first downsampled to 125 Hz and narrowly bandpass filtered at 9–16 Hz . Significance of phase-locking to spindle band oscillations was determined using alpha < 0 . 
An agent-based model is developed that extends earlier ‘strain theory’ by addressing the var gene family of Plasmodium falciparum . It tracks the dynamics of all unique var repertoires in a population of hosts , and shows that even under high levels of sexual recombination , strain competition mediated through cross-immunity structures the parasite population into a subset of coexisting dominant repertoires of var genes whose degree of antigenic overlap depends on transmission intensity . Empirical comparison of patterns of genetic variation at antigenic and neutral sites supports this role for immune selection in structuring parasite diversity . We describe an agent-based model that extends strain theory to address the effect of immune selection acting on multi-copy antigen genes; we use the var gene family of P . The var genes encode P . falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1  —the major surface antigen of the parasite's blood stages that binds to host endothelial cell receptors to allow the parasite to sequester within various host tissues  . Var genes are composed of multiple Duffy-binding-like  and cysteine-interdomain-rich  domains that encode binding functions for specific endothelial receptors . DBLα , is the only domain found in nearly all var genes  , and hence is the most informative molecular marker of var gene diversity . Each parasite genome has up to 60 var genes , and differential sequential expression of these genes allows the parasite to evade the host immune response and establish a chronic infection . Not only do var genes influence transmission , but specific var genes are associated with severe malarial disease and specific PfEMP1 binding phenotypes  . falciparum genomes have distinct repertoires of var genes  that extensively recombine  during sexual recombination in the mosquito  . The immense sequence diversity observed among var genes and var repertoires has been attributed to high rates of meiotic  recombination . These high rates of recombination presumably allow for very low linkage disequilibrium among var loci . Our modeling framework considers the dynamics shaping the enormous potential diversity of genomic repertoires of var genes by tracking all possible var repertoires , given a diverse pool of genetic variants . We explore whether structured parasite populations resulting from the selection pressures exerted by competition among distinct var repertoires for hosts , mediated by cross-immunity , can emerge . We model the dynamics of multiple parasite genomes that simultaneously circulate in a large host population , continuously tracking the formation of new genomes through recombination , mutation and immigration events  . Reliable numerical results require the simulation of explicit transmission events , as well as complete knowledge of the exposure history of each individual host with respect to past and present infections by different parasite genomes . The simulated host population is continuously exposed to an immense diversity of distinct var repertoires , since new combinations of var genes are continuously generated through meiotic recombination events . As a conservative example , consider the number of potential configurations arising from the combinatorial possibilities of 6 loci with 50 var genes in the pool: more than 3 × 107 repertoires ! Despite this large potential diversity , simulation results show that only a few dominant var repertoires circulate and persist at any given time , effectively keeping var repertoire diversity orders of magnitude lower than is potentially possible given the number of var genes present in the host population  . This pattern persists in the long-term , far out-living the influence of initial conditions , and persisting through occasional changes in the identity of the dominant var repertoires  . Thus , on epidemiological  time scales , most of the parasite population is structured into a limited number of distinct var repertoires . All var repertoires sampled less than 50 times are pooled and plotted in grey . Bottom: The corresponding number of transmission events of each var gene per year  . 003 We find that the parasite population structure exhibits punctuated turnover: brief episodes of restructuring result in a new set of dominant var repertoires . Despite the changing identities of the dominant var repertoires , the overall diversity of repertoires present and the individual gene frequencies remain remarkably constant  . In essence , although there are an effectively infinite number of niches in host immunity space , var repertoires appear to exploit this space by partitioning it into a number of discrete and partially overlapping niches . The episodes of restructuring become more frequent as recombination rates increase , but the diversity of dominant var repertoires remains low throughout these semi-stable states . The level of diversity remains orders of magnitude lower than that potentially allowed by the var gene pool itself . However , as transmission intensity increases , the overlap between distinct dominant var repertoires also increases , with completely discordant genomes only appearing at the lower end of the spectrum  . To capture the characteristic features of different population compositions we defined four metrics: N* , measuring the average number of successful transmission events per year , V* , measuring the average number of de-novo genomes transmitted per year , R* , measuring the diversity of var repertoires , and F* , measuring the degree of var overlap between distinct repertoires  . We find that as transmission intensity  increases , all four measures increase as well , and that epidemiological dynamics clearly constrain var repertoire diversity and structure parasite populations , with the degree of overlap determined by epidemiological parameters  . Our findings are robust to different host population sizes  , different gene pools sizes  , and different repertoire lengths   . Different degrees of distinct var repertoire overlap with transmission intensity . Emerging populations are typically characterized for low transmission intensities  , by a low number of dominating genomes with a low level of antigenic overlap  ; and for high transmission intensities  , by higher diversity and higher antigenic similarity  . Top four panels: the metrics characterizing population structure for three host population sizes as a function of transmission intensity  . This is an important difference with compartmental transmission models that consider superinfection but have no explicit treatment of var genes and repertoire diversity . Age profiles of immunity and infection:  In color are the number of hosts immune to a single arbitrary antigen in different age classes superimposed over a histogram representing the entire age distribution of hosts  . A measure of parasite rate demonstrated by the fraction of infected hosts in different age groups  for 2 transmission intensities  . Under high-transmission regimes , we characteristically observe high levels of superinfection  and high parasite rates in the very young age classes , after which immunity is rapidly gained to most of the antigenic variants circulating in the population . In contrast , host populations in regimes of very low transmission , characteristically exhibit similar levels of parasite rates in all age groups , and immunity is gradually gained throughout life , with infection spanning all age classes . Transmission events were sampled at a frequency of 1:100 , and the host population was sampled every 10 years at a ratio of 1:100 . Strain specific immunity and transcending immunity . Five of these strains are antigenically unique as they have no overlap with any of the other strains , two of these strains share all of their genes with other strains  , and one of the strains has a partially unique antigenic profile sharing 66% of its genes with other strains  . The number of hosts immune to strains 1 and 2  for each age class superimposed over the host age distribution  . Immunity to strain 1 is strain specific and only gained through exposure to this particular strain due to the uniqueness of its antigenic profile . By contrast , immunity to strain 2 is strain ‘transcending’ and acquired also by exposure to other strains with which it shares genes . It follows that hosts are exposed to strain 1 at a higher level and at younger ages , than those for strain 2 . 007 Two recent large-scale studies aimed at assessing the extent of local reservoirs of var genes in five epidemiologically and geographically distinct P . falciparum populations  provide us with new knowledge on the distribution of var genes in parasite genomes . These new data clearly show that the frequency distribution of distinct var genes , or sequence ‘types’  is significantly different from what we would expect if sequence types were equal in frequency and uncorrelated  . In addition , the data show significant nonrandom associations among many var DBLα types within the sampled isolates  . Nonrandom organization of var DBLα types between 30 sampled parasite isolates from Amele , Papua New Guinea as published in  . Presence–absence matrix showing the distribution of var types in isolates: Each row corresponds to an individual parasite isolate and each column to a distinct var type . The color bar indicates the number of distinct isolates each var type was identified in . The frequency distribution of the number of isolates in which each var type was identified , obtained by assuming a total var richness of ∼369 , as estimated in  . The observed distribution for the data  and the expected distribution when assuming all var types circulate at equal frequencies  were found to be significantly different  . Note the enrichment for both very rare and very common var types in the data . Observed and expected co-occurrence of var DBLα types . In each matrix cell  is the number of times var types i and j were found in the same isolate . The co-occurrence of var types found in multiple isolates is significantly higher than for the null expectation under the assumption of linkage equilibrium among all var types   ( the expected co-occurrence matrix conserves both the observed number of var types in each isolate and the observed frequency distribution of different var types  ) . Based on sequence features  , and the fact that genomic organization of var sequence groups appear to be conserved across globally distributed isolates  , it is very unlikely that var type 22  is physically linked to the other alleles in the network  . The relatedness of the var DBLα repertoires of an isolate pair as a function of the relatedness of their microsatellite repertoires . Relatedness is defined as the number of var types shared between the two isolates , divided by the average number of var types identified per isolate for that pair of isolates . 008 These patterns in observed var repertoires may alternatively result from neutral demographic processes: that is , individual mosquitoes bite discrete hosts , and thus , inevitably sample the host population unevenly . This limits ‘random mating’ and thus recombination between parasite genomes . Currently , the dataset with the most extensive sampling of diversity at both var and microsatellite loci within a local population consists of a set of 30 single infection isolates from a local population in Papua New Guinea for which we have sequences for a portion of the var DBLα domain and the alleles for 12 microsatellite loci  . We measure the positive linkage disequilibrium coefficients  for the presence/absence states for all unique pairs of microsatellite or var DBLα alleles . For the var DBLα dataset there are 1288 distinct pairs of alleles with positive D values that exceed a two-tailed significance threshold of 0 . The D values of the var DBLα dataset are higher than those of the microsatellite dataset  , and we argue that this cannot easily be explained by allele frequency differences or differences in the extent of physical linkage among sites  . Another important observation is that , at least at this level of resolution , var DBLα repertoire relatedness is not a function of microsatellite repertoire relatedness . Figure 6E shows the relatedness of the var DBLα repertoires of an isolate pair as a function of the relatedness of their microsatellite repertoires . The absence of any correlation suggests the possibility that var DBLα variation is shaped by other forces than the neutral demographic forces shaping microsatellite variation . We also consider only the most informative var types in isolation by identifying highly correlated sets of var types . We then tested the relatedness of microsatellite alleles among the isolates containing these networks of correlated var types . The networks of correlated var types were constructed from pairs of var types exhibiting both high linkage disequilibrium and correlation coefficients  . The microsatellite repertoires of these two isolates are less related than average for the whole dataset , so at least in this case , high microsatellite relatedness does not explain the existence of these highly correlated var types . Additionally , smaller subsets of correlated var types are often found in isolates with very dissimilar microsatellite alleles . These results suggest that the existence of highly correlated var types is not always explained by high levels of underlying genome relatedness . falciparum . More extensive datasets will be needed for definitive conclusions , but these are now within reach as next generation sequencing methods make it feasible to consider sampling whole communities of parasite genomes to assess var population structure . This reduction in diversity occurs because coexisting parasites are structured into a few variants with largely discordant repertoires . These distinct sets of patches are formed and conserved even when immunity to the var alleles is shorter-lived . Under this assumption , hosts in our model regain protection by exposure to one of the dominant strains circulating in the host population at high frequencies , and do so at a sufficiently high rate to preserve strain population structure except at extremely low transmission intensity . By reducing antigenic overlap between strains , vector control efforts will result in infection at an older age and a more gradual acquisition of protection to infection , even in the absence of changes in var gene diversity . However , if the number of var genes that a host has previously encountered relates to the degree of protection against clinical disease , we would expect more severe symptoms to occur at younger ages under high transmission settings , and in contrast , more homogeneous malaria incidents are likely to occur over a broader range of age-classes when transmission is lowered  . Investigation of these patterns awaits the formulation of models that include functional , non-antigenic , differences between strains , as well as more empirical understanding of the role played by var genes associated with more severe disease . Future work should thus extend our model to consider functional , non-antigen-encoding differences between var genes  . have pointed to the importance of var genes in malaria surveillance , due to their influence on both the duration of infection and the degree of superinfection , and they demonstrated the existence of an immense diversity of var genes and limited var repertoire overlap in Africa , even in sites with low malaria prevalence . Consequently , they have proposed that var typing be used to complement prevalence measures for molecular surveillance of malaria control and elimination efforts . Our models support this proposal as they show that decreasing transmission provokes nonlinear changes in the dominant var configurations . Importantly , our results demonstrate that there is not a simple relationship between var diversity and repertoire diversity . Indeed , the ‘var strain’ model suggests that vector control strategies that reduce transmission will not always drastically reduce var gene diversity , because a reservoir of parasite genomes with diverse  var repertoires will remain . This insight from the model provides a plausible explanation for why it is so difficult to eliminate malaria: non-overlapping var diversity will create significant inherent difficulties in reducing the potential of the malaria parasite to reinfect the same hosts . It also suggests that var surveillance might provide a good molecular means of evaluating control . Each parasite is composed of a set of exactly g var genes , and the genomes are distinguishable from each other by their unique var combination . The overall diversity of var genes circulating in the host population is assumed to originate from a general predefined pool of G variants  . Hence , the total number of distinct var repertoires is G ! In the beginning of a simulation we generate five random repertoires by sampling variants from this pool , and we infect 10 random hosts with each of these repertoires . The size of the overall host population is H . Throughout the simulation , variants from this pool are sampled , either by the mutation of one var gene to another , at probability ψ , or through an immigration event , where at rate ζ a random host in the population is infected by a var repertoire randomly sampled from this pool . While mitotic recombination within var genes may play an important role in generating additional var diversity , we do not explicitly include this process here , because for the purposes of this model , and given the high levels of diversity already present in the pool , it would play a role essentially equivalent to mutation or immigration . During the course of an infection , a parasite expresses all of its var genes , and these are responsible for encoding PfEMP1 variant surface antigens   . We assume that the total duration of infection in a susceptible host lasts a fixed time  , and that in partially immune hosts , the actual duration decreases proportionally to the number of var genes that have been expressed in earlier infections  . It is recognized that the gain of immunity during the course of an infection is gradual  , and we capture this feature by considering that the var genes composing an infecting parasite are mutually and exclusively expressed in a fixed sequential order . Hence , at each stage of an infection , the host has already acquired specific immunity to all the VSA's encoded by var genes expressed up to that point in time . As a result , immunity to each infecting parasite is gained gradually . The infection history of each host is tracked in time and determines its immune status  . This effectively structures the population of hosts into distinct sets of individual ‘patches’ or ‘resources’ that define an immune environment , which ultimately causes immune selection to act on the parasite population . An infected host can harbor multiple simultaneously co-infecting parasite genomes , and each has the potential of being transmitted to another host through a mosquito biting event . When such an event takes place , each of the infecting parasites has a probability , τ , of successfully being transmitted from the infected host to the mosquito , making it possible for several different genomes to be transmitted in a single biting event  . The alternative rules for within host dynamics of multiple infections are:  Co-infection , no cost: during the course of co-infection , there is no cost on the transmission probability of each of the infecting genomes , and hence the transmissibility of each remains , τ , identical to what it would be , had there been no other infecting genomes . Mutually exclusive infections: here , co-infections are not permitted; while a host is infected with one infection , it is not susceptible to any other . Delayed super-infection: a host can harbor multiple parasite genomes , but only one actively infects the host , with transmissibility τ , while the rest remain latent until the active parasite genome is cleared . After that , one of the latent parasite genomes begins its active state until it is cleared , and so on . In these events , at probability ρ , the genomes recombine to create new parasite genome variants , which then infect the receiving host . By sequentially expressing different var genes during the course of an infection , host immunity is gradually gained to the PfEMP1 variants  associated with the infecting parasite genome . When the host is exposed to an additional genome , this parasite begins expressing its var genes sequentially , as it would , had it been infecting the host on its own . Transmissibility of each of the infecting parasites during such periods of co-infection decreases according to the multiplicity of infection at the time . We assume that this new host has no history of exposure , nor any acquired immunity . At a ‘biting event’ , a vector bites two randomly chosen hosts sequentially , if the first host is actively infected by one or several parasite genomes at that time , there is a probability for each of these to be transmitted to the second host . As noted earlier , this probability depends on transmission probability , τ , and on the number of co-infecting parasite genomes . A parasite genome that is transmitted from one host to another , has a probability ψ of mutating , such that one of its randomly chosen var genes is replaced by a randomly chosen variant from the pool . This new genome is then the one transmitted to the second host . When two or more parasite genomes are successfully transmitted from the first host to a mosquito , there is a given probability , ρ , that recombination occurs , resulting in a new var repertoire that is then transmitted from the mosquito to the second host . In this case , the novel combination is formed by randomly sampling a subset of var genes from each of the parent repertoires . Hence , when ρ>0 , this effectively leads to a continuous reshuffling of var repertoires circulating in the host population . Given the extensive number of possible var combinations , these recombination events often introduce de novo parasite genomes not yet present in the infected host population . As before , S is the number of unique genomes responsible for transmission events in a window of time , and for each gene i from the gene pool , pi is its relative frequency in each of the transmitted genomes . Hence , a gene that is not shared between dominating genomes will be represented at high frequency at a single genome  . Because DBLα is the only domain found in nearly all PfEMP1 variants  , the sequence encoding the central portion of this domain provides the most informative molecular marker of var gene diversity  . Two DBLα tags are considered to represent two distinct var ‘types’ if their nucleotide sequence identity is less than 96% . Relatedness is defined as the number of var types shared between two isolates , divided by the average number of var types identified per isolate for that pair of isolates . The higher D values for var DBLα alleles versus microsatellite alleles cannot be attributed to differences in allele frequencies since the var DBLα alleles have lower frequencies than the microsatellite alleles , and thus , D values biased to lower magnitudes . While the higher D values from the var DBLα dataset could be due to the influence of the close physical linkage of a small subset of pairs of var loci  , it seems somewhat unlikely because the great majority of var loci are located very far from other var loci in the 3D7 genome  , and var loci have been shown to coincide with recombination hotspots  in a genome that is already characterized by remarkably high underlying rates of recombination  . 
Consequently , its polyubiquitination activity in complex with the RING-finger ubiquitin ligase TRAF6 and the downstream NF-κB inflammatory response is silenced . The precise role of deamidation in silencing the UBC13/TRAF6 complex is unknown . We report that deamidation inhibits the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6 RING-domain  by perturbing both the native and transient interactions . Deamidation creates a new intramolecular salt-bridge in UBC13 that competes with a critical intermolecular salt-bridge at the native UBC13/TRAF6RING interface . Moreover , the salt-bridge competition prevents transient interactions necessary to form a typical UBC13/RING complex . Repulsion between E100 and the negatively charged surface of RING also prevents transient interactions in the UBC13/RING complex . In the early events of interleukin-dependent activation of Nf-κB signaling , the Ub-conjugating enzyme UBC13 , and the Ub-ligase TRAF6 function together to synthesize both unanchored polyubiquitin chains , and anchored polyubiquitin chains on TRAF6 and its substrate NEMO  . OspI specifically targets a glutamine residue in UBC13 and converts it to glutamate  . Ubiquitination reactions of TRAF6 either with UBC13 in the presence of OspI or with mutant Q100E-UBC13  show a significant drop in polyubiquitination activity  . However , the mechanism underlying inhibition of polyubiquitination by deamidation of UBC13 remains unclear . The E2 UBC13 functions with several RING-finger E3s like TRAF6 to synthesize K63-linked poly-Ub chains that function to activate DNA repair or immune response  . Apart from the E3s , UBC13 also binds a co-factor MMS2 , which does not activate UBC13 but maintains the linkage specificity of the poly-Ub chains synthesized by UBC13  . We report that deamidation weakens the non-covalent interaction of UBC13 with RING-finger domain of TRAF6  , without perturbing UBC13 structure or the intrinsic enzymatic activity of UBC13 . However , the underlying cause of reduced interaction is nonintuitive since Q100 is in the vicinity of UBC13/TRAF6RING interface but does not form any contact with the TRAF6RING . Further studies showed that deamidation disrupts the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6RING by three mechanisms: i ) A new intramolecular R14/E100 salt-bridge appears in dUBC13 , which competes with a critical intermolecular salt-bridge in the native complex , ii ) the salt-bridge competition also perturbs the UBC13/TRAF6RING transient complexes to inhibit association , and iii ) transient repulsion between the negatively charged E100 and the negatively charged interface of TRAF6RING reduces association between UBC13 and TRAF6RING . The effect of each mechanism on the binding was confirmed by binding studies using appropriate substitutions in either UBC13 or TRAF6RING . The impact of deamidation on transient interactions was also observed using another RING domain from RNF38 , indicating that the mechanism could be ubiquitous for UBC13/RING complexes . Two different constructs of TRAF6 was used in this study . The isolated RING domain TRAF6RING  was a shorter construct . TRAF6RING interacts with UBC13 and with the donor Ub in the UBC13 ~Ub conjugate , while the interaction of ZF domains with donor Ub further stabilized the complex  . dUBC13 had reduced polyubiquitination activity than UBC13 , either with longer TRAF6RZ3 or with shorter TRAF6RING  . Deamidation could have some allosteric effect at the active site or Ub-binding site , which may deactivate UBC13 . However , a comparison of the extent of polyubiquitination by the UBC13/MMS2 heterodimer in the absence of E3 was similar between UBC13 and dUBC13 , indicating that E2 activity is not altered upon deamidation  . Deamidation could misfold UBC13 or inhibit the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6RING . These possibilities were examined by studying the impact of deamidation on the structure of UBC13 and its interaction with TRAF6RING . 15N-labeled UBC13 , dUBC13 , and unlabelled TRAF6RING were expressed in E . Unlabelled TRAF6RING was titrated into a sample of 15N-UBC13 , and the binding was detected by 15N-edited Heteronuclear Single Quantum Coherence  NMR experiments  . The chemical shift perturbations  plotted in Figure 1D shows that the significant perturbations in UBC13 occur in the α1-helix , and the loop between α3-10 and α2-helix , which is the canonical UBC13 interface in the complex  . The peak shifts in UBC13 titration spectra were fitted to yield a Kd of 0 . 39  mM  . The backbone chemical shifts of UBC13 and dUBC13 resonances were compared . The absence of major CSPs in the rest of dUBC13 indicated that deamidation did not change the fold of UBC13 . Unlabelled TRAF6RING was then titrated into a sample of 15N-dUBC13 , and the binding was detected by 15N-edited HSQC experiments  . Negligible peak shifts were detected in dUBC13 even when the TRAF6RING was titrated up to 6-fold higher than dUBC13 , indicating that TRAF6RING does not bind dUBC13  . A rough estimate of the Kd was obtained by comparing the CSPs at the UBC13 interface at the same protein: ligand concentration between UBC13 and dUBC13 , which suggested the Kd of 6 . 34  mM . TRAF6RING was titrated to Q100A-UBC13 , and the measured Kd was 0 . 54  mM  , which is similar to UBC13/TRAF6RING . 6  ) mM , Figure 1I ) , confirming that substitution at Q100 with a negatively charged residue inhibited the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6RING . Altogether , deamidation inhibited the binding of TRAF6RING to UBC13 , but neither changed the fold of UBC13 nor its intrinsic E2 activity . In the UBC13/TRAF6RING native complex structure , Q100 does not form any direct contact with TRAF6RING  . The surface electrostatic potentials calculated for UBC13 and TRAF6RING indicated charge complementarity at the interface  . The UBC13 interface was positively charged , while the TRAF6RING was negatively charged . Notably , Q100 lies in the vicinity of a network of electrostatic interactions involving helix-1 of UBC13  and the first zinc-coordination motif  of the TRAF6RING  . Possibly , the introduction of an additional negative charge in UBC13 upon deamidation could perturb the interfacial electrostatic contacts to disrupt the interaction . A conventional MD simulation  of free dUBC13 was performed to investigate if deamidation alters any electrostatic interactions within UBC13 . The new salt-bridge involving R14 and E100 in dUBC13 was further investigated by NMR . The R14 Nη atoms had two separate resonances in dUBC13 but not UBC13  , implying that R14 forms a new intramolecular salt-bridge in dUBC13 , consistent with the MD simulations . The salt-bridge persisted in the Q100D-UBC13  , correlating well with its reduced affinity for TRAF6RING . At the interface of UBC13/TRAF6RING , R14 of UBC13 forms an intermolecular salt-bridge with E69 of TRAF6RING  . The stability of the complex was determined by the rmsd of TRAF6RING with respect to the crystal structure , where higher rmsd implied instability . The deamidated complex was unstable for a significant duration of 75 ns , wherein the rmsd of TRAF6RING increased substantially  . Five interfacial contacts were chosen as reporters of the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6RING  . No major instability was observed in the hydrophobic contacts between UBC13 and dUBC13  . However , concurrent to the high rmsd in dUBC13 complex , the R14/E69 intermolecular salt-bridge disrupted and the R14/E100 intramolecular salt-bridge formed , suggesting that salt-bridge competition might destabilize the native dUBC13 complex  . The occupancy of the R14/E69 intermolecular salt-bridge dropped from 99% in the wt complex to 40% in the dUBC13 complex  . The US simulations were then carried out for wt , dUBC13 , Q100A-UBC13 , and R14A-UBC13 complexes  . In contrast , ΔGPMF of dUBC13 complex gradually reduced by only 0 . 7 kcal/mol , suggesting that deamidation reduces the stability of the complex . The ΔGPMF of Q100A-UBC13/TRAF6RING is similar to the wt complex  . The stability of the intermolecular contacts was compared between UBC13 and dUBC13 complexes at the native US window . While the R14/E69 salt-bridge was stable throughout in the wt complex , it disrupted in the dUBC13 complex  . The mean CIE was significantly higher in dUBC13 complex , suggesting that deamidation primarily inhibited electrostatic interactions  . The disruption of R14/E69 salt-bridge temporally correlates well with higher CIE and higher rmsd of TRAF6RING  . Steered MD  simulations were performed to capture the effects of deamidation on the dissociation of the UBC13 and dUBC13 complexes . As TRAF6RING starts to dissociate , the intramolecular R14/E100 salt-bridge competes with the intermolecular R14/E69 salt-bridge and reduces its strength  . The R14A-UBC13 complex , where the intermolecular R14/E69 salt-bridge is absent , was also less stable compared to the wt complex  . The order in which the contacts disrupted during dissociation was compared in a typical SMD trajectory for both UBC13 and dUBC13 complexes  . However , in the trajectory of the dUBC13 complex , the intermolecular salt-bridge disrupted prematurely , and the intramolecular salt-bridge formed simultaneously  . Therefore , any difference between wt and deamidated complex were solely due to transient repulsion between E100 and the acidic residues of TRAF6RING . The association rate constant reduced by three-fold for dUBC13/TRAF6RING at low salt , indicating that deamidation reduces the association of the transient complex . Multiple US windows also indicated repulsive transient interactions between E100 and TRAF6RING  . In the wt complex , a transient attractive interaction was observed between R14 in UBC13 and D57 in TRAF6RING  . However , the R14/D57 interaction was absent in the dUBC13 complex , and it dissociated prematurely  . Overall , electrostatic repulsion between E100 and the negatively charged interface of TRAF6RING was observed in the dUBC13 transient complexes , which could destabilize it . When the transient complex theory calculations were repeated for the R14A-UBC13 complex , the kon dropped significantly by six-fold at low salt  . Since repulsion due to E100 is absent in R14A-UBC13 , the drop in kon suggests that R14 also forms transient contacts with TRAF6 , which are important for the binding . 3 fold in the dUBC13 complex at low salt , suggesting that deamidation reduces the formation of the native-like transient complex . The ensemble of transient complexes was compared between UBC13 and dUBC13  . The distribution of TRAF6RING positions around the helix 1 of UBC13 indicates that the TRAF6RING positions are tightly clustered around the UBC13 binding interface  . The positions of TRAF6RING are dispersed when it interacts with dUBC13 , and none of the clusters coincide with the native complex  . Several TRAF6RING clusters around R14 were absent in the dUBC13 complex , indicating that the transient contacts between R14 and TRAF6RING are absent in dUBC13  . The energy landscape correlating the free-energy with rmsd of TRAF6RING , and the minimum distance between interfaces shows multiple low-energy transient intermediates were present in the association pathway , which converged to the native complex  . Here , TRAF6RING associated initially with UBC13 via the R6/D57 and R14/E69 salt-bridges  . No native complex was detected for the dUBC13 complex at low salt conditions  . The MD simulations suggested that deamidation destabilized both the native and transient complexes . NMR titrations were carried out using variants of UBC13 and TRAF6RING to validate the effect of each mechanism on the binding energy of the complex . E69A-TRAF6RING removed the acceptor of the intermolecular salt-bridge and mimicked the effect of salt-bridge competition in the native complex  . When 15N-UBC13 was titrated with E69A-TRAF6RING , the Kd increased , and binding energy decreased  . The R14A-UBC13 substitution mimicked the salt-bridge competition in both the native and the transient complexes , that is the drop in binding energy was ΔΔGNSB + ΔΔGTSB . The titration of R14A-UBC13 with TRAF6RING determined a drop in the binding energy by 1 . Deamidation reduced the binding energy by 1 . Overall , titrations studies indicated that all three mechanisms have distinct contributions to the binding between UBC13 and TRAF6RING . Analysis of the UBC13/RING structures shows that R14-mediated salt-bridges are common in these complexes  . However , in a few complexes like UBC13/RNF4 and UBC13/RNF8 , the R14 mediated salt-bridge was absent . A typical RING domain from the E3 RNF38  was chosen to study the effect of UBC13 deamidation in such cases . RNF38RING can activate UBC13 to synthesize polyubiquitin chains  . Similar to TRAF6 , the RNF38RING fails to activate dUBC13  . Like RNF4 and RNF8 , RNF38RING lacks a negatively charged residue at the region corresponding to E69 in TRAF6RING  . However , there are several acidic residues in the vicinity , similar to TRAF6RING , which can form non-native transient interactions with UBC13  . NMR titrations measured the effect of deamidation on the interaction between UBC13 and RNF38RING . When RNF38RING domain was titrated to 15N-UBC13  , major CSPs were observed in the α1-helix , β3-β4 loop , and the loop between α3-10 and α1-helix  . The Kd value of UBC13/RNF38RING interaction was 0 . 04 mM  . Considerable peaks shifts were also detected when RNF38RING was titrated to 15N-dUBC13  . However , the CSPs in dUBC13 were reduced compared to UBC13 at the same protein: ligand stoichiometry , indicating reduced affinity  . The interface of RNF38RING was mapped by titrating unlabeled UBC13 to 15N-labeled RNF38RING  . Using the CSPs of UBC13 and RNF38RING , an NMR-data driven structural model of UBC13/RNF38RING was determined by HADDOCK  . The titration was repeated with R14A-UBC13 , which mimics the R14 sequestration by salt-bridge competition . The Kd of R14A-UBC13/RNF38RING showed a 2 . 2 kcal/mol , the effect on the transient complex is 0 . Deamidation reduces the binding energy by 1 . Given the salt-bridge competition reduces binding energy by 0 . Overall , the effect of deamidation on perturbing the ensemble of transient complexes was verified in another RING domain , which indicated that the mechanism could be ubiquitous in UBC13/RING complexes . If the RING domains bind weakly to dUBC13 , their ability to activate the dUBC13 ~Ub conjugate should be compromised , which was tested by binding and activity assays . First , the conjugation of donor Ub to the UBC13 and dUBC13 were compared by an in-vitro conjugation reaction . Both the UBC13 and dUBC13 conjugated with the donor Ub with similar efficiency , indicating that deamidation does not hamper E2 ~Ub conjugation  . In the UBC13 ~Ub/TRAF6RZ3 complex , the RING domain and ZF1 domain makes additional contacts with donor Ub to stabilize the complex further . These contacts could rescue the loss in affinity between UBC13 and RING domain upon deamidation . Hence , the binding of UBC13 ~Ub and dUBC13 ~Ub to TRAF6RZ3 was compared . While UBC13 ~Ub conjugate bound to TRAF6RZ3 , dUBC13 ~Ub conjugate failed to do so  . In a similar experiment , UBC13 ~Ub but not dUBC13 ~Ub bound to RNF38RING  . Altogether , the binding experiments confirmed that secondary interactions between Ub/RING or Ub/ZF1 could not compensate for the loss of primary interaction between UBC13 and RING . The activation of UBC13 ~ Ub conjugates by the RING domains were measured by the kinetics of single-round Ub discharge from the UBC13 ~ Ub . UBC13  was first conjugated with K63A-Ub . TRAF6RING could effectively discharge Ub from UBC13 ~ Ub , but not from dUBC13 ~ Ub  . Similarly , RNF38RING could discharge Ub from UBC13 ~ Ub but not from dUBC13 ~ Ub  . When the concentration of the RNF38RING was increased by five-fold to compensate for the reduced affinity of dUBC13/RING complex , the rate of Ub discharge improved , which confirmed that the cause of the inefficient discharge is the reduced affinity of dUBC13/RING interaction  . The kinetics of single-round di-Ubiquitin  synthesis was monitored to investigate if the deamidation of UBC13 affects the activity of UBC13 and its interaction with acceptor lysine at the active site . UBC13  was conjugated with donor K63A-Ub . Then Mms2 , RNF38RING and acceptor D77-Ub was added in the reaction mix , which was then monitored over time to detect the synthesis of Ub2 . The rate of Ub2 synthesis was rapid for UBC13 but slow for dUBC13  . Kinetic analysis indicated that the reaction rate for the dUBC13/RING complex is similar to the rate of UBC13 in the absence of RING  , indicating that the catalytic effect of RING is absent in the dUBC13/RING complex . A comparison of the kinetic parameters between UBC13 and dUBC13 indicated that deamidation does not significantly affect the Km of the substrate , but drastically affects the Kcat of the reaction  . Furthermore , in the absence of a RING domain , the Kcat of UBC13 and dUBC13 is similar , confirming that the catalytic activity of UBC13 is unaffected upon deamidation , similar to the observation of Figure 1C . However , unlike UBC13 , the Kcat of dUBC13 does not increase in the presence of RING , confirming that RING domains fail to bind and activate the dUBC13 ~Ub conjugate . The Shigella flexneri effector OspI suppresses the inflammatory response  via deamidation of UBC13 at Q100 . By an unknown mechanism , deamidation of Q100 to E100 inhibits the synthesis of K63-linked polyubiquitin chains by the UBC13/TRAF6 complex , preventing the downstream activation of NF-κB pathway . Q100 is present at the vicinity of UBC13/TRAF6 interface but does not form direct contact with TRAF6 . We report that deamidation neither alters the fold nor the enzymatic activity of UBC13 . NMR and kinetics studies indicate that deamidation does not alter the active site of UBC13 . Instead , it reduces the interaction between UBC13 and RING domains to diminish the catalytic effect of the RING . The interaction with TRAF6 is inhibited because E100 in dUBC13 competes with an intermolecular R14/E69 salt-bridge at the dUBC13/TRAF6RING interface to form an intramolecular salt-bridge , which destabilizes the native complex . The new intramolecular salt-bridge also inhibits the long-range transient interactions formed by R14 with TRAF6RING . In addition , repulsive interactions between E100 and the negatively charged interface of TRAF6RING destabilize the transient complexes . Cumulatively , these mechanisms reduced the binding energy between UBC13 and TRAF6RING by 1 . Consequently , its efficiency in activating the UBC13 ~Ub conjugate drops by 6-fold  . The effect of deamidation is also manifested in another UBC13/RING complex . Deamidation reduced the rate of Ub-discharge and the rate of Ub2 synthesis by several folds in the UBC13/RNF38RING complex  . For several E3s like RNF38 , the RING domain can function as a monomer  . For others like TRAF6 , the RING domains function as dimers  . Since deamidation perturbed the binding of UBC13 to both TRAF6 and RNF38 , it is likely that deamidation inactivates UBC13 for both homo/hetero-dimeric RING-E3s . In dimeric RINGs like TRAF6 , the proximal RING interacts with one unit of UBC13 ~ Ub , and the distal RING interacts with the donor Ub of another UBC13 ~ Ub . Additionally , for TRAF6 dimer , the first zinc-finger following the RING domain of one protomer also interacts with the donor Ub of the UBC13 ~ Ub bound to another protomer  . However , the binding between UBC13 and TRAF6RING is independent of dimerization  , indicating that binding between UBC13 and proximal RING is primary . Indeed , deamidation inhibited the binding of UBC13 to both TRAF6RING and to the longer dimeric TRAF6RZ3 , confirming that secondary interactions between Ub/RING or Ub/zinc-finger cannot compensate for the loss of primary E2/RING interaction . Hotspot prediction algorithms reported R14 to be a hotspot at the UBC13/TRAF6RING interface  . Analysis of all the UBC13/RING  structures shows that intermolecular salt-bridges involving R14 are present in several of the UBC13/RING complexes  . Binding studies by isothermal titration calorimetry measured that R14A substitution reduced the binding energy of UBC13/ZNRF1RING complex by ~1 . 4 kcal mol−1 in the UBC13/TRAF6RING complex . Altogether , R14 appears to be a hotspot at the UBC13/TRAF6RING interface . Deamidation of UBC13 disrupts the salt-bridge between R14 and E69 due to competition from E100 , which destabilizes the UBC13/TRAF6RING complex . Unlike RKIP , deamidation does not alter the local fold of UBC13 . While intramolecular salt-bridges compete within RKIP , the competition is between an intermolecular and intramolecular salt-bridge in UBC13 . In the dUBC13/RNF38 complex , deamidation majorly alters transient association . The interfacial contacts of UBC13/TRAF6RING were obtained from PDB entry 3HCU using the typical cut-offs in the contact analysis tool in UCSF Chimera  . Initial structures of UBC13 and TRAF6RING for MD simulations and association rate constant  estimation were obtained from the PDB entry 3HCU  , which represents a model of the native complex . For MD simulations of TRAF6RING , a C-terminal truncated model comprising of residues 50–148 was used . Electrostatic surface potentials of UBC13 and TRAF6RING were calculated using the Adaptive Poisson-Boltzmann Solver  . Simulations of free dUBC13 and UBC13/dUBC13 native complexes with TRAF6RING were performed using the general MD protocol described above . For unbiased-association simulations , UBC13/dUBC13 and TRAF6RING were separated along with the x component of the vector connecting their center of masses by 4 nm in a cubic box with an edge length of 12 . Minimum distances were measured between UBC13 and TRAF6RING to identify native-like , non-native , and non-associating trajectories using g_mindist . Among the remaining trajectories , minimum distances were measured between all UBC13 and TRAF6 RING heavy atoms . The spatial distribution of TRAF6RING COMs around UBC13/dUBC13 was obtained by calculating the displacement between COMs of Cα atoms of helix-I in UBC13 and TRAF6RING  using g_dist and plotted for all fifteen association trajectories . 45 nm was performed on pairwise rmsd matrices  of the combined trajectories  using UBC13/dUBC13  as a reference for superposition to obtain the UBC13/TRAF6RING transient complex clusters . The rmsd was computed for the backbone atoms of both UBC13 and TRAF6RING between all trajectory snapshots . The output structures of the complex were then superposed on UBC13  to obtain the location of TRAF6RING cluster representatives . Native complex formation was identified by measuring the Cα rmsd of TRAF6RING with respect to its position in the crystal complex for trajectories which exhibited the formation of native-like transient complexes using UBC13  as a reference for superposition . Two-dimensional free energy landscapes for UBC13/dUBC13 association with TRAF6RING were computed as a function of minimum distance  and TRAF6RING rmsd using a python script . In this study , we carried out force-induced unbinding of TRAF6RING from UBC13 using the constant velocity pulling method along the x-axis to a COM separation of ~ 6 nm in 30 ns long simulations . The force and COM position of TRAF6RING was recorded every five ps . The association rate constants  for UBC13/dUBC13/R14A-UBC13 with TRAF6RING were calculated based on transient complex theory  . In all trajectories , rotational and translational motion of UBC13 was removed entirely to fix its position with respect to TRAF6RING . A synthetic construct for TRAF6RING  was synthesized at Thermo Fischer Scientific , USA . Variants of UBC13 were generated using PCR based site-directed mutagenesis in WT-UBC13 in pET24 vector  . TRAF6RZ3 plasmid was a gift from Prof . GST-TRAF6RING and GST-RNF38RING  were bound to GSTrap HP columns  and were eluted with 10 mM reduced glutathione . TRAF6RZ3 was induced at OD600 ~ 0 . For the purification of control K63-linked di-Ub , 1 µM UbE1 , 40 µM Ubc13 , 40 µM GB1-MMS2 , 40 µM GST-RNF38 , 200 µM D77-Ub and 200 µM K63A-Ub were mixed with reaction buffer  overnight . For NMR titration experiments , either ~ 2 mM TRAF6RINGor ~ 1 mM RNF38RING were titrated into ~ 0 . 15 mM 15N-UBC13 , 15N-dUBC13 and other mutants . The solution structure of UBC13/RNF38RING complex was calculated in HADDOCK  using the structure of UBC13  and RNF38RING  . 4 , Electrostatic energy: −169 . For ubiquitination assay using TRAF6RZ3 , E1  , UBC13 and MMS2  and Alexa Fluor Maleimide  labeled UbS20C  were incubated with TRAF6RZ3  in UB-buffer  at 37°C for 10 min . The same reaction was repeated with GST-TRAF6RING instead of TRAF6RZ3 . For ubiquitination assay using GST-RNF38RING , E1  , UBC13 and MMS2  and Alexa Fluor Maleimide  labeled UbS20C  were incubated with GST-RNF38RING  in 20 mM Tris , 5 mM ATP , 5 mM MgCl2  at 37°C for 30 min . For Ub conjugation assays , E1  , UBC13/dUBC13  , and K63A-Ub  were incubated in UB-buffer at 37°C for 15 min . For discharge assays , E1  , UBC13/dUBC13  , and K63A-Ub  were incubated in UB-buffer at 37°C for 60 min . MBP-Mms2  , TRAF6RING or RNF38RING  and Lysine  were added to start Ub-discharge . For Ub2 synthesis kinetics , E1  , UBC13/dUBC13  , and K63A-Ub  were incubated in UB-buffer at 37°C for 60 min . Then MBP-Mms2  , RNF38RING  and D77-Ub  were added to start Ub2 synthesis . For the pull-down of TRAF6RZ3 with UBC13 ~ Ub conjugate , Ub conjugation reaction was performed as described above , and the reaction was quenched with EDTA at room temperature for 5 min . The UBC13 ~ Ub conjugate  was then mixed with TRAF6RZ3  and MBP-Mms2 on the amylose beads for 1 hr at 4°C , washed  . For the pull-down of UBC13 ~ Ub conjugate with GST-RNF38RING , the GST-RNF38RING was incubated with glutathione agarose  . The UBC13 ~ Ub conjugate was mixed with GST-RNF38RING  on glutathione agarose for 1 hr at 4°C , washed  , resuspended in 50 mM Tris , 20 mM NaCl , pH 8 and separated on 12% SDS gel . 
Bidirectional manipulations – activation and inactivation – are widely used to identify the functions supported by specific cortical interneuron types . Implicit in much of this work is the notion that tonic activation and inactivation will both produce valid , internally consistent insights into interneurons’ computational roles . Optogenetically manipulating somatostatin-positive  or parvalbumin-positive  interneurons while recording tone-responses showed that Sst+ inactivation increased response gain , while Pvalb+ inactivation weakened tuning and decreased information transfer , implying that these neurons support delineable computational functions . But activating Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons revealed no such differences . We found that inactivation of Sst+ interneurons increased response gain , while inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons weakened tuning and decreased information transfer , implying that these two neuron types support specific , separable functions in the auditory cortex . Yet activating Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons revealed no such differences . To produce mice in which we could inactivate Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons , we crossed mouse strains that express Cre-recombinase under control of the Sst or Pvalb promoter  with the Ai35 strain , in which expression of Arch-GFP is Cre-dependent   . In Arch/Sst mice , the percentage of GFP labeled neurons that showed Sst fluorescence  was 89 ± 4% , and the percentage of Sst labeled neurons that were GFP-labeled  was 91 ± 2% , and in Arch/Pvalb mice the specificity was 93 ± 2% and the efficiency was 89 ± 7% , consistent with previous reports   . For each recorded unit we generated iso-intensity frequency tuning curves  in both the light-off and light-on conditions by measuring the firing rates  in the 50 ms period after tone-response onset as a function of frequency  . Of the units with frequency-tuned responses  , the majority had sound-evoked FRs that were significantly increased by light  ; a minority had responses that were significantly suppressed by light  ; and the remainder had responses with no significant change   . A small fraction of units with no significant change to their tone responses nonetheless showed significant changes to their baseline activity  . Optogenetic inactivation of Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons . Schematic of optogenetic manipulation in Arch/Sst mice in which green light directly hyperpolarizes Sst+ cells  . Rasters of tone-evoked action potentials for a representative indirectly activated unit without  and with  inactivation of Sst+ cells . FTCs  derived from tone-evoked firing rates  without  and with  inactivation of Sst+ cells for the representative unit in  . Inset shows unit waveforms on trials without  and with  inactivation of Sst+ cells . Distribution of the light-on to light-off tone-evoked FR ratios during the response period for frequency-tuned units . Green bars with pink outline indicate units with significantly suppressed FRs  , grayish pink bars indicate units with no significant change in FR  , and pink bars with black outline indicate units with significantly increased FRs  . As  , but in Arch/Pvalb mice , in which green light directly hyperpolarizes Pvalb+ cells  . show the rasters and FTCs of a representative , indirectly-activated unit with and without inactivation of Pvalb+ cells . In  , green bars with light blue outline indicate units with significantly suppressed FRs  , grayish blue bars indicate units with no significant change in FR  , and light blue bars with black outline indicate units with significantly increased FRs  . Arch  co-localizes with somatostatin in Arch/Sst mice and with parvalbumin in Arch/Pvalb mice . Immunostaining of a brain slice from an Arch/Sst mouse . Magenta arrows indicate three examples of putative Sst+ cells . Immunostaining of a brain slice from an Arch/Pvalb mouse . Grayscale image of Pvalb stain . Merged image of GFP  and Pvalb  stains . Magenta arrows indicate three examples of putative Pvalb+ cells . Interneuron inactivation increases firing rates and decreases signal to noise ratio . An example unit’s mean firing rate  ± SEMs relative to sound onset , without  and with  inactivation of Sst+ interneurons . Same as  , for an example unit recorded from an Arch/Pvalb mouse without  and with  inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons . The spontaneous FR with versus without light for each tuned unit whose sound-evoked FR was increased by light . Left: Arch/Sst , n = 44 units; right: Arch/Pvalb , n = 41 units . Spontaneous rate ratio  for the units in  . Inactivation of Sst+ interneurons increases the spontaneous rate ratio  , as does inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . Same as  , but for sound-evoked FRs  . Sound-evoked rate ratio for the units in  . Inactivation of Sst+ interneurons increases the sound-evoked rate ratio  , as does inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . Same as  , but for baseline-subtracted sound-evoked FRs  . Baseline-subtracted sound-evoked ratio for the units in  . Inactivation of Sst+ interneurons increases the baseline-subtracted sound-evoked ratio  , as does inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . SNR ratio for the units in  . Inactivation of Sst+ interneurons decreases SNR ratio  , as does inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . Schematic of a neuron’s FTC in the light-off  and light-on  conditions . Linear regression of light-off versus light-on firing rates   . Multiplicative/divisive changes produce significant slopes  . Additive/subtractive changes produce significant intercepts  . 006 What does inactivating Sst+ and Pvalb+ cells lead us to conclude about their specific contributions to the gain  or tuning  of tone responses ? We applied the linear regression described above to the 44 units recorded from Arch/Sst and 41 units from Arch/Pvalb mice whose responses were tuned for frequency and significantly increased by light  . This included both narrow-spiking and broad-spiking units  . Most units showed predominantly linear changes in their FTC with decreased inhibition  . Inactivation of Sst+ cells produced a variety of linear transformations  , as did inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . However , the proportions of linear transformation types produced by inactivation of Sst+ cells were significantly different from those produced by inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . To quantitatively compare the effects of inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells on response gain  , we compared the distributions of the slope values obtained from the linear regression analyses  and found that inactivating Sst+ cells had a significantly larger effect on the response gain than inactivating Pvalb+ cells  . Furthermore , inactivating Pvalb+ cells had a significantly larger effect on the magnitude of the additive component compared to inactivating Sst+ cells  . These differences between the effects of inactivating Sst+ versus Pvalb+ cells were more prominent among broad-spiking units than narrow-spiking units  . Interestingly , this larger additive effect produced by inactivating Pvalb+ cells was not entirely due to increases in spontaneous activity , as performing linear regression on baseline-subtracted responses  revealed similar differences in both the slopes and y-intercepts  , implying that the additive effect produced by inactivation of Pvalb+ cells must include a substantial contribution from sound-evoked responses that are not frequency selective . Optogenetically inactivating Sst+ interneurons , compared to inactivating Pvalb+ interneurons , produces different linear transformations of FTCs . FTCs  of representative units demonstrating all the combinations of linear transformations observed with inactivation of either Sst+ cells  or Pvalb+ cells  . Fraction of units that showed each kind of linear transformation with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . Population best-fit slope coefficients with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . Slopes were significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the slope was/was not significantly different from 1 , respectively . Population best-fit y-intercepts , normalized by maximum firing rate , with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . Y-intercepts were significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Effects of inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are mainly linear . Distribution of the R2 values from the linear regression analysis from units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Differences between inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are present among broad-spiking , but not narrow-spiking , units . Best-fit slope coefficients for each unit as a function of action potential  duration  . Among the units with narrow-spiking waveforms  whose activity was increased by light  , Sst+ cell inactivation  and Pvalb+ cell inactivation  produced slopes that were not significantly different  . However , among the units with broad-spiking waveforms  whose activity was increased by light  , Sst+ cell inactivation produced significantly larger slopes  than Pvalb+ cell inactivation . Darker squares represent units for which the slope was significant . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts for each unit as a function of change in sound-evoked firing rate . Among the units with narrow-spiking waveforms  whose activity was increased by light  , Sst+ cell inactivation  and Pvalb+ cell inactivation  produced y-intercepts that were not significantly different  . However , among the units with broad-spiking waveforms  whose activity was increased by light  , Pvalb+ cell inactivation produced larger y-intercepts  than Sst+ cell inactivation . Darker squares represent units for which the normalized y-intercept was significant . Effects of inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are not explained entirely by increases in spontaneous activity . An example unit’s FTC  with  and without  inactivation of Pvalb+ cells . Inset shows the linear regression for light-off versus light-on firing rates   . Baseline-subtracted FTCs from the same unit in  . Best-fit slope coefficients from baseline-subtracted units with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  were significantly different from each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the slope was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts from baseline-subtracted units with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  were significantly different from each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Differences between inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are present even in unit populations whose firing rates are weakly affected by interneuron inactivation , as well as in strongly affected unit populations . Best-fit slope coefficients for each unit as a function of change in sound-evoked firing rate between the light-on and light-off conditions . Among the half of the units that were more weakly affected by interneuron inactivation  , Pvalb+ cell inactivation produced smaller slopes than Sst+ cell inactivation  . Among the half of the units that were more strongly affected by interneuron inactivation  , Pvalb+ cell inactivation produced smaller slopes than Sst+ cell inactivation  . Darker squares represent units for which the slope was significant . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts for each unit as a function of change in sound-evoked firing rate . Among the half of the units that were more weakly affected by interneuron inactivation  , Pvalb+ cell inactivation produced larger y-intercepts than Sst+ cell inactivation  . Among the half of the units that were more strongly affected by interneuron inactivation  , Pvalb+ cell inactivation produced larger y-intercepts than Sst+ cell inactivation  . Darker squares represent units for which the y-intercept was significant . Inactivation of Sst+ cells , compared to inactivation of Pvalb+ cells , produces different proportions of linear effects , even after matching unit populations based on firing rate ratios . The linear regression analysis is limited to units from Arch/Sst mice and Arch/Pvalb mice that have similar sound-evoked firing rate ratios  . Distribution of the R2 values from the linear regression analysis from ratio-matched units with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . High median R2 values demonstrate that most ratio-matched units are fit well by a linear framework   Fraction of units that showed each kind of linear transformation with inactivation of Sst+ cells  or inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  were significantly different from each other  . Best-fit slope coefficients from ratio-matched units with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  were significantly different from each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the slope was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts from ratio-matched units with inactivation of Sst+ cells  and inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  were significantly different from each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which the y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . 012 Note that , all other factors being equal , both the slope and y-intercept of the linear regression  , and the chances that either of these coefficients will be statistically significant , will be greater in units whose firing rates are more strongly affected by the light  . We addressed this potential confound by limiting our population analyses to units with similar increases in firing rates  . In these matched populations , we again found that the proportions of linear transformations produced by inactivating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells differed  , as did the magnitudes of both the multiplicative and additive effects  . To perform the complementary experiment , we produced mice in which we could activate Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons by crossing Sst- and Pvalb-Cre mouse strains  with the Ai32 strain , in which expression of ChR2-eYFP is Cre-dependent   . In ChR2/Sst mice , somatostatin mostly co-localized with GFP , and in ChR2/Pvalb mice , parvalbumin mostly co-localized with GFP  . In these mice , blue light had a range of effects on both sound-evoked FRs , spontaneous FRs , and SNRs  . Of the frequency-tuned units  , the majority had responses to tones that were significantly reduced by light  , a minority had responses that were significantly increased by light  , and the remainder of units’ responses showed no significant change  . A small fraction of units with no significant change to their tone responses nonetheless showed significant changes to their spontaneous activity  . Optogenetic activation of Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons . Schematic of optogenetic manipulation in ChR2/Sst mice in which blue light directly activates Sst+ cells  . Rasters of tone-evoked action potentials for a representative suppressed unit without  and with  activation of Sst+ cells . FTCs  derived from tone-evoked firing rates  without  and with  activation of Sst+ cells for the representative unit in  . Inset shows unit waveforms on trials without  and with  activation of Sst+ cells . Distribution of the ratio of light-on to light-off FRs during the response period in ChR2/Sst mice for frequency tuned units . Red bars indicate units with significantly suppressed FRs  , grayish red bars indicate units with no significant change in FR  , and cyan bars with red outline indicate units with significantly increased FRs  . As  , but in ChR2/Pvalb mice , in which blue light directly activates Pvalb+ cells  . show the rasters and FTCs of a representative suppressed unit with and without activation of Pvalb+ cells . In  , blue bars indicate units with significantly suppressed FRs  , grayish blue bars indicate units with no significant change in FR  , and cyan bars with blue outline indicate units with significantly increased FRs  . ChR2  co-localizes with somatostatin in ChR2/Sst mice and with parvalbumin in ChR2/Pvalb mice . Immunostaining of a brain slice from a ChR2/Sst mouse . Magenta arrows indicate three examples of putative Sst+ cells . Immunostaining of a brain slice from a ChR2/Pvalb mouse . Magenta arrows indicate three examples of putative Pvalb+ cells . Interneuron activation decreases firing rates and increases signal to noise ratio . An example unit’s mean firing rate  ± SEMs relative to sound onset , without  and with  activation of Sst+ interneurons . Same as  , but of an example unit recorded from a ChR2/Pvalb mouse without  and with  activation of Pvalb+ interneurons . The spontaneous firing rate   with versus without light for each tuned unit whose sound-evoked FR was increased by light . Left: ChR2/Sst , n = 64 units; right: ChR2/Pvalb , n = 62 units . Spontaneous rate ratio  for the units in  . Activation of Sst+ interneurons decreases the spontaneous rate ratio  , as does activation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . Same as  , but for sound-evoked FRs  . Sound-evoked rate ratio for the units in  . Activation of Sst+ interneurons decreases the sound-evoked rate ratio  , as does activation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . Same as  , but for baseline-subtracted sound-evoked FRs  . Baseline-subtracted sound-evoked ratio for the units in  . Activation of Sst+ interneurons decreases the baseline-subtracted sound-evoked ratio  , as does activation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . SNR ratio for the units in  . Activation of Sst+ interneurons increases SNR ratio  , as does activation of Pvalb+ interneurons  , but these ratios are not different from each other  . 015 To evaluate how interneuron activation suppresses auditory cortical responses , we applied the same linear framework to the FTCs of the 59 units from ChR2/Sst and 57 units from ChR2/Pvalb mice whose responses were both tuned for frequency and significantly suppressed by activation of interneurons  , excluding units that were suppressed by more than 80%  , and including both narrow-spiking and broad-spiking units . Among these units , this linear framework explained the effects of light-driven inhibition from Sst+ and Pvalb+ cells well , as evidenced by median R2 values around 0 . Activating Sst+ cells , and activating Pvalb+ cells , both produced a variety of types of linear transformation  . Optogenetically activating Sst+ interneurons , compared to activating Pvalb+ interneurons , produces similar linear transformations of frequency tuning curves . FTCs  of representative units demonstrating all the combinations of linear transformations observed with activation of either Sst+ cells  or Pvalb+ cells  . Fraction of units that showed each kind of linear transformation with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Best-fit slope coefficients for activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Slopes were not significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which slope was/was not significantly different from 1 , respectively . Best-fit y-intercepts , normalized by maximum firing rate , for activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Y-intercepts were not significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Effects of activating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are mainly linear . Distribution of the R2 values from the linear regression analysis from units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Broad- and narrow-spiking units are similarly affected by interneuron activation . Best-fit slope coefficients for each unit as a function of action potential  duration  . Among the units with narrow-spiking waveforms  whose activity was suppressed by light  , Sst+ cell activation  and Pvalb+ cell activation  produced similar slopes  . Likewise , among the units with broad-spiking waveforms  whose activity was suppressed by light  , Sst+ activation and Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar slopes  . Darker squares represent units for which the slope was significant . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts for each unit as a function of change in sound-evoked firing rate . Among the units with narrow-spiking waveforms  whose activity was suppressed by light  , Sst+ cell activation  and Pvalb+ cell activation  produced similar y-intercepts  . Likewise , among the units with broad-spiking waveforms  whose activity was suppressed by light  , Sst+ activation and Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar y-intercepts  . Darker squares represent units for which the normalized y-intercept was significant . Similar effects of activating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells remain after baseline subtraction . An example unit’s FTC  with  and without  activation of Pvalb+ cells . Inset shows the linear regression for light-off versus light-on firing rates   . Baseline-subtracted FTCs from the same unit in  . Best-fit slope coefficients from baseline-subtracted units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  were similar to each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which slope was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts from baseline-subtracted units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  were similar to each other  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Similarities between activating Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells are present even in unit populations whose firing rates are strongly suppressed , as well as in weakly-suppressed unit populations . Slope coefficients for each unit as a function of change in sound-evoked firing rate between the light-on and light-off conditions . Among the half of the units that were more weakly affected by interneuron activation  , Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar slopes to Sst+ cell activation  . Among the half of the units that were more strongly affected by interneuron activation  , Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar slopes to Sst+ cell activation  . Darker squares represent units for which the slope was significant . Normalized y-intercepts for each unit as a function of change in FR . Among the half of the units that were more weakly affected by interneuron activation  , Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar y-intercepts to Sst+ cell activation  . Among the half of the units that were more strongly affected by interneuron activation  , Pvalb+ cell activation produced similar y-intercepts to Sst+ cell activation  . Darker squares represent units for which the y-intercept was significant . Activation of Sst+ cells , compared to activation of Pvalb+ cells , produces similar linear effects , even after matching unit populations based on firing rate suppression ratios . Only units from both populations that have similar firing rate suppression ratios are kept for the analysis  . Distribution of the R2 values from the linear regression analysis from ratio-matched units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb cells  . Fraction of units that showed each kind of linear transformation with activation of Sst+ cells  or activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Best-fit slope coefficients from ratio-matched units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Slopes were not significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which slope was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Normalized best-fit y-intercepts from ratio-matched units with activation of Sst+ cells  and activation of Pvalb+ cells  . Y-intercepts were not significantly different between groups  . Dark/light squares indicate units for which y-intercept was/was not significantly different from 0 , respectively . Optogenetic activation of Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons increases stimulus-independent activity . Left: Waveforms  from a putative Sst+ interneuron without  and with  optogenetic activation . Middle: Peri-stimulus time histogram  of the putative Sst+ interneuron without  and with  optogenetic activation . Right: Frequency tuning curves  without  and with  optogenetic activation . Dotted lines indicate baseline firing rate without  and with  optogenetic activation . Same as  for two other putative interneurons . In  , note that the putative Sst+ interneuron barely increases firing to the stimulus without optogenetic activation; but with optogenetic activation , its firing rate is often above 60 Hz . Same as  for three putative Pvalb+ interneurons . 022 Counterintuitively , given the observation that inactivation of Sst+ versus Pvalb+ interneurons caused different effects on the gain and tuning of tone responses , the proportions of significant linear transformations observed when activating Sst+ cells and activating Pvalb+ cells were similar to one another  . These similarities were present among broad-spiking units as well as narrow-spiking units  . Even among the units with the most suppressed sound-evoked FRs , the effects of Sst+ and Pvalb+ activation were not significantly different from one another  , suggesting that these similarities were not due to insufficient activation of interneurons . To account for potential differences in the distributions of FR suppression produced by activation of each interneuron population , we again matched the two unit populations by their FR ratios . The proportions of linear transformations produced by interneuron activation remained similar  , as did the magnitudes of both the subtractive and divisive effects  . In sum , the results of our inactivation experiments would imply that Sst+ and Pvalb+ cells normally support different computations; yet these activation experiments would lead to the conclusion that these neurons do not support different functions . This may relate to the effects of activation on the interneurons themselves . We identified putative Sst+  and Pvalb+  units by their increased sound-evoked firing rates with light activation  . These units had median spike trough-to-peak durations of 348 ± 61 μs and 287 ± 41 μs , respectively , were generally spontaneously active before the tone  , and increased their firing during the tone  . Interestingly , optogenetic activation of putative Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons had a larger effect on spontaneous FRs  , than sound-evoked FRs  . Moreover , even putative interneurons that were not generally active without light  often showed FRs well above 30 Hz during the light  . These inhibitory dynamics and computational features have been differentially linked to Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons  . To test whether optogenetically inactivating and activating these interneurons also produced discrepant effects on information transfer through cortical neurons , we calculated the per-trial mutual information  between the stimulus and firing rate output , in both the light-off and light-on conditions , for each unit analyzed previously  . The effects of inactivating Sst+ cells on information-per-trial were significantly different from the effects of inactivating Pvalb+ cells  : inactivating Sst+ cells significantly increased information-per-trial  , while inactivating Pvalb+ cells significantly decreased it  . Are these different effects on information transfer produced by inactivation of Sst+ versus Pvalb+ cells simply related to overall changes in the number of spikes available to represent information ? The effects on information-per-spike of inactivating Sst+ cells versus Pvalb+ cells were significantly different  , inconsistent with the notion that the observed differences in information transfer were due to differences in firing rate modulation  . Optogenetically inactivating Sst+ versus Pvalb+ cells produces different effects on mutual information  , whereas activating these interneurons produces similar effects on MI . Responses of a representative unit recorded in an Arch/Pvalb mouse to tones of different frequencies on trials without  and with  inactivation of Pvalb+ cells  . In this unit , information-per-trial between the stimulus and response decreased when Pvalb+ cells were inactivated . Information-per-trial with versus without inactivation of Sst+ cells  or Pvalb+ cells  . Darker circles represent units for which the change in information-per-trial was significant  . Box-and-whisker plots of the change in information-per-trial with inactivation of Sst+ cells or Pvalb+ cells . Inactivating Sst+ cells significantly increased information-per-trial  , inactivating Pvalb+ cells significantly decreased information-per-trial  , and these effects were significantly different from each other  . As  but for information-per-spike . Inactivating Sst+ cells  and inactivating Pvalb+ cells  both significantly decreased information-per-spike , but these effects were significantly different from each other  , indicating that differences in information-per-trial were not due to differences in the number of spikes available to represent information . As  but from a unit recorded in a ChR2/Pvalb mouse . In this unit , information-per-trial between the stimulus and response increased when Pvalb+ cells were activated . Information-per-trial with versus without activation of Sst+ cells  or Pvalb+ cells  . Darker circles represent units for which the change in information-per-trial was significant  . Box-and-whisker plots of the change in information-per-trial with activation of Sst+ cells  or Pvalb+ cells  . Neither activation of Sst+ cells  nor activation of Pvalb+ cells  changed information-per-trial , and their activation did not produce significantly different effects on information-per-trial  . As  but for information-per-spike . As  but for information-per-spike . Activating Sst+ cells  and activating Pvalb+ cells  both significantly increased the information-per-spike , but these effects were not significantly different from each other  . 023 In contrast , activating Sst+ cells and activating Pvalb+ cells did not differentially impact information-per-trial  : indeed , neither activation of Sst+ cells nor activation of Pvalb+ cells significantly changed information-per-trial  . This lack of differential impact on information-per-trial was likely not due to insufficient activation of interneurons because even the most strongly suppressed units did not exhibit significant differences  . These results are consistent with our previous work , which found no differences between activation of Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons on tuning bandwidths  . Additionally , the incongruity between inactivation and activation  was apparent even after matching units based on the amount that they their firing rates were suppressed or enhanced  . The ostensible functional equivalencies between Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons we observed with optogenetic activation , yet functional differences produced by their inactivation , is paradoxical: how can these supposedly complementary manipulations produce such inconsistent effects ? We modeled the effects of inactivating and activating interneuron populations in a densely connected network . Neurons with more similar tuning to that of the downstream neuron are more strongly connected to it . Inactivation versus activation of interneurons can have asymmetrical effects on response gain in a simple network model . A population of neurons tuned to different frequencies  provides input to a downstream neuron  in a weighted fashion , such that neurons with more similar tuning to that of the downstream neuron are more strongly connected to it  . Interneurons that inhibit these input neurons  are inactivated , which increases the activity of the input neurons . The frequency tuning curve  of a single neuron in the input layer  is multiplicatively increased by interneuron inactivation  . Inset shows the change in firing . Inset shows the change in net input to the downstream neuron . Note that when inactivating interneurons , the linear effects of multiplication and addition at the single-input level are preserved in the net input of the downstream neuron . As  , but with activation of interneurons  , which suppresses the activity of the input neurons  . Thus multiplication of the input neurons’ responses produces the strongest increase in firing near the center of the downstream neuron’s tuning curve , where stimuli evoke the strongest responses  . Thus , inactivation of interneurons preserves the single-cell effects of multiplication and addition at the network level in this simple model . This contrasts with the effect of interneuron activation . Importantly , aspects of the network state such as its baseline firing rate determine the regime wherein such asymmetric effects between activation and inactivation will be observed  . The net input to the downstream neuron without light versus with light  . The best-fit slopes and y-intercepts from regressions on the measurements in  as a function of the strength of  activation  . Arrows indicate the strengths of interneuron  activation represented in  . Under these conditions , interneuron inactivation and activation result in multiplication and division , respectively , of the downstream neuron’s net input . Interneuron activation interacts with threshold nonlinearities to transform subtraction of the inputs’ FTCs into division of the downstream neuron’s net input , resulting in asymmetric results between activation and inactivation . This increases the range over which activation/inactivation will produce internally consistent conclusions . This decreases the range over which activation/inactivation will produce consistent conclusions . Activation of Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons produced no significant differences in any of the three domains of sensory processing that we tested , even in cases where activation of interneurons caused equivalent and strong suppression , implying that Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons function equivalently in these aspects of sensory processing . In stark contrast , inactivation of Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons produced significant differences in all three domains: Pvalb+ cells appeared to increase information transfer through subtractive inhibition , whereas Sst+ cells appeared to provide divisive inhibition . That optogenetic activation and inactivation of interneurons did not produce symmetric results contradicts the intuitive notion that optogenetically increasing and decreasing interneuron activity necessarily strengthens and weakens , respectively , the functions these interneurons normally serve . How could optogenetic activation and inactivation of interneurons lead to these seemingly contradictory outcomes ? One reason could be that activation and inactivation of interneurons may differentially affect how the features of interneuron-specific inhibition are propagated through a network like the cortex . Whether such asymmetric effects will occur depends on both the level of interneuron manipulation and the baseline activity of the input neurons . For example , from the viewpoint of a cortical pyramidal cell that receives inputs from several genetically similar interneurons , inactivation of these interneurons only suppresses neurons that are active during the stimulus . On the other hand , activation of these interneurons recruits most , if not all , of the interneurons – even those that are not normally activated by the stimulus . In this study , for example , a small population of the putative Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons fired weakly during the auditory stimulus  , but dramatically increased their firing , often well above 30 Hz , with light stimulation . Moreover , recent work suggests that cortical Sst+ and Pvalb+ populations may contain subgroups that are differentially driven by patterns of cortical activity  , stimulus features  , and task-related behaviors  , suggesting that genetically-targeted activation of these cells may recruit more than one functional population . For example , in auditory cortex , Pvalb+ cells have been reported to be activated rapidly and by a broad set of tones , while Sst+ interneurons respond relatively slowly to a narrower range of tones  . The findings from our model suggest that , in any of these studies , including our own , activation of Sst+ or Pvalb+ interneurons may have suppressed input cell firing below nonlinear spiking threshold , transforming , or obfuscating , the computational properties of interneuron-specific inhibition . Our inactivation experiments , on the other hand , mostly agree with  , and support the idea that Pvalb+ cells subtractively suppress responses and increase information content by suppressing irrelevant spikes , whereas Sst+ cells divisively suppress responses to modulate dynamic range . To target our opsins to either Sst+ or Pvalb+ cells , we used Sst-Cre and Pvalb-Cre knock-in lines  . These strains drive expression of Cre in Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons of the cortex and hippocampus with minimal  leak  . Recordings with blue light were performed with a light power near 15 μW  , which typically suppressed firing to about 50% of the light-off condition . Event rasters for each unit were constructed around each tone and used to produce frequency tuning curves . A unit was defined as tuned if the frequency tuning curve was significantly  modulated by frequency , calculated using a 1-way ANOVA , and if at least three responses in both the light-off and light-on conditions were significantly  above zero . The firing rate suppression or enhancement ratio for each unit was calculated as the percent change in spikes-per-trial during the response period , averaged over all stimuli . A unit was considered significantly suppressed or enhanced by the light if the number of tone-evoked spikes during the 50 ms response period across all stimulus conditions with light was significantly  different from that without light . For Figure 3—figure supplement 3 and Figure 5—figure supplement 3 , we calculated baseline-subtracted tone-evoked firing by subtracting the average spontaneous firing rate , measured from 0 to 50 ms before stimulus onset , from the tone-evoked rates . For Figure 3—figure supplement 5 and Figure 5—figure supplement 5 , units from either ChR2/Sst and ChR2/Pvalb mice , or Arch/Sst and Arch/Pvalb mice were matched based on their firing rate ratios by selecting pairs of units between the two groups that were within a distance of a tenth of the range of all firing rate ratios . If a unit in one group did not have a matching unit in the other group within this distance , it was discarded . Units were deemed to show significant subtractive or additive transformations if the regression y-intercept was significantly  less than zero or greater than zero , respectively . To calculate information-per-spike for each unit , we divided the information-per-trial by the average firing rate  . 15 from the entire tuning curve of each input neuron . In Figure 8 , the baseline firing of the input neurons was varied by changing the spiking threshold  . For moderate baseline firing , threshold remained at 0 , for low baseline firing threshold was set to 0 . 
Here we applied transcranial alternating current stimulation  to exogenously modulate oscillatory activity in a right frontoparietal network that supports WM . Simultaneously collected fMRI data reveals tACS effects dependent on the relative phase of the stimulation and the internal cognitive processing state . Specifically , synchronous tACS during the verbal WM task increased parietal activity , which correlated with behavioral performance . Furthermore , functional connectivity results indicate that the relative phase of frontoparietal stimulation influences information flow within the WM network . Overall , our findings demonstrate a link between behavioral performance in a demanding WM task and large-scale brain synchronization . Frontal and parietal brain regions support WM  . Theta power increases during complex manipulations of items in WM  , with increasing memory load  , and is correlated with WM performance  . For example , frontoparietal theta synchrony with ~0° phase lag is associated with the maintenance and manipulation of information in WM  . With the aim of providing causal evidence for the role of oscillatory synchronization during demanding WM performance , as well as to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms by which frontoparietal phase synchronization influences verbal WM , we conducted two experiments using transcranial alternating current stimulation  to selectively entrain endogenous brain rhythms  . In- and anti-phase theta frequency  stimulation was applied across two key nodes of the right frontoparietal network: the middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule . Similar tACS stimulation has previously been shown to produce phase-dependent modulations of WM performance  . In Experiment 1 we used conventional continuous theta stimulation to investigate the role of frontoparietal phase synchronization on cognitive performance . Cognitive demands were varied by using a combination of choice reaction and N-back tasks of increasing difficulty . This allowed us to test the prediction that tACS effects would only be seen when cognitive demands were high . The right hemisphere was stimulated because increasing demand in verbal N-back conditions was associated with stronger activity and effective connectivity within the right hemisphere WM network  , as well as a more pronounced effect of tACS on WM performance  . In Experiment 2 we investigated the neurobiological substrate of the phase dependent effects of tACS . Our fMRI-tACS experimental design used short trains of tACS that avoid aftereffects of the stimulation  whilst maximizing power to detect changes in the blood oxygen level-dependent  signal . We tested the following hypotheses:  behavioral WM performance is enhanced by entraining synchronous activity within a right frontoparietal network activated by WM demands;  regional brain activity in this frontoparietal network is modulated in a phase dependent manner;  changes in BOLD induced by phase-dependent network stimulation correlate with behavioral performance;  functional connectivity across distant brain regions is modulated in a phase-dependent manner , in agreement with computational and empirical evidence that phase synchronization enables flexible reconfiguration of information flow between brain areas  . We found that synchronous  stimulation caused an improvement in performance and led to increased frontoparietal activity when cognitive demands were high . We additionally demonstrate the important influence of underlying cognitive demand on the neural effects of tACS . In Experiment 1 , we investigated the effects of tACS on the performance of two tasks with varying cognitive loads: a simple choice reaction time task  and a verbal N-back task with 1-back and 2-back difficulty levels  . Theta  tACS was applied to the middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule nodes  of the frontoparietal network in synchronous  and desynchronous  conditions  . Ten healthy volunteers performed a session of each tACS condition  in a pseudo-randomized single-blinded cross-over design . The effect of tACS stimulation on reaction time  and accuracy  was analysed using repeated-measures ANOVAs , with task  and tACS condition  as within-subjects factors . Stimulation parameters , behavioral tasks and RTs in Experiment 1 . Participants performed the Choice Reaction Task  and 1-back and 2-back versions of the N-back task . tACS electrode set-up . TACS was applied at 6 Hz frequency with 0° relative phase between F4 and P4 in the synchronous condition and with 180° relative phase in the desynchronous condition . Stimulation was applied for the duration of the task except for the sham condition where tACS was applied for 30 s in the synchronous condition at the beginning of the task . Reaction times for the CRT , 1-back and 2-back tasks for each of the stimulation conditions  . Synchronous tACS improved reaction times  for the more demanding 2-back condition compared both to desynchronous tACS and sham . Simulation of the electric field distributions for each tACS condition . The electric field distributions on the cortex resulting from the two tACS conditions were calculated using a realistic finite element model as implemented in SimNibs 2 . In the case of the synchronous tACS condition three electrodes were included in the model: two anodes  and one cathode  . The desynchronous tACS condition was modeled with an anode and a cathode  , to reflect the cancelling of currents in T8 by the opposing flow of currents in the anodes . The electric field distributions were very similar across participants and are represented for a cohort  of the participants in Experiment 2  . 005 For RTs , there was a significant main effect of task ( F  =45 . 84 ) , tACS condition ( F  =8 . 47 ) and task x tACS condition interaction ( F  =3 . Synchronous stimulation improved performance on the cognitively demanding 2-back task . A main effect of tACS condition on RTs was observed ( F  =7 . This reflected faster responses in the synchronous compared to both the desynchronous ( t  = −5 . 76 ) and sham conditions ( t  = −2 . In contrast , there was no difference between the RTs in the desynchronous and sham conditions ( t  = 0 . These results partly replicate recent experiments showing that performance improves with similar synchronous stimulation , but also reporting impairment in the desynchronous condition  . There was no effect of stimulation on RTs for the less demanding 1-back ( F  =1 . 14 ) conditions , supporting a role for phase synchronization during demanding WM processes and ruling out a simple motor effect . To investigate the extent to which synchronous stimulation improved performance in the 2-back condition , we compared RTs between the 2-back and the less demanding 1-back condition . While the expected slowing of RTs was observed for 2-back relative to 1-back performance in desynchronous and sham conditions ( paired t-test between 1-back and 2-back: desynchronous tACS: t  = −4 . 002; sham: t  = −3 . 008 ) , there was no significant difference in performance when the synchronous stimulation was applied ( t  = −1 . Accuracy was unaffected by stimulation , as no main effect of tACS condition ( F  =1 . 10 ) or task x tACS condition interaction ( F  =0 . 63 ) , with the 2-back condition showing lower accuracy than the 1-back and CRT conditions  . In Experiment 2 we use simultaneous tACS-fMRI to investigate the neural correlates of the phase dependent effects of tACS . TACS was employed as a causal ‘physiological probe’ in an experimental design optimized to detect neurophysiological changes associated with the external stimulation . Twenty-four participants underwent a session of simultaneous tACS-fMRI  in which they performed separate runs of blocked 2-back and CRT tasks , for both the synchronous  and desynchronous  tACS conditions  . To measure the physiological effects of tACS , stimulation was delivered during task or rest blocks and balanced with non-tACS blocks in a pseudo-randomized order  . The 2-back task was chosen because the performance was sensitive to tACS and the CRT as it involves low frontoparietal recruitment , allowing us to investigate how tACS interacts with cognitive state . FMRI-tACS setup and stimulation protocol for Experiment 2 . In Experiment 2 , tACS was applied in a pseudo-randomized order during Task blocks  and fixation  blocks  . The figure shows tACS applied at the synchronous condition  . The application of short trains of tACS was chosen to investigate the neurophysiological correlates of tACS manipulations on BOLD activity and connectivity . Each participant performed one fMRI run of each task  and tACS condition  . In each run participants performed 24 blocks  . 006 We assessed whether our results might be confounded by motion , heart rate or the subjective perception of different tACS conditions . 013 , n = 21 , and CRT = 0 . 011 , n = 20 ) and there was no difference in FD between periods with and without stimulation or for different tACS phase conditions for any of the tasks ( Repeated measures ANOVA for CRT and 2-back with factors stimulation  and tACS phase  ; all F values < 2 , all p values > 0 . Similarly , heart rate  was not different between periods with and without stimulation or between different tACS phase conditions ( Repeated measures ANOVA for CRT and 2-back with factors stimulation  and tACS phase  ; all F values < 2 , all p values > 0 . The effects depend on the relative phase of the external oscillators and also the underlying cognitive state at the time tACS is applied . In particular , we showed that imposing theta frequency synchronously across the inferior parietal lobe and middle frontal gyrus improves verbal WM performance and increases frontal and parietal brain activity . The functional connectivity of the inferior parietal lobe was also modulated by tACS in a phase dependent manner . Frontal interactions increased with synchronous theta stimulation whereas posterior interactions increased with desynchronous stimulation , suggesting that information flow through brain regions involved in WM can be differentially affected by varying the phase of external stimulation . While synchronous and desynchronous stimulation produced distinct activity and connectivity patterns in the 2-back task , they resulted in similar changes of activity and no effects on connectivity for the CRT task . We replicate the observation that synchronous tACS applied across the frontoparietal networks improves WM performance  , and extend these results by showing that this cognitive enhancement is dependent on the demands of the cognitive task . Our observations that tACS had no effect on less demanding 1-back or CRT tasks suggests that the behavioral effects of entraining oscillations interacts with the extent that a network is already engaged by a cognitive task . Remarkably , synchronous tACS produced sufficient improvement in response times to make 2-back performance similar to the 1-back condition , which is typically associated with much faster responses . For example , theta synchrony between frontal and parietal brain regions increases during complex manipulations of items held in WM  . Entraining synchronous activity across the right frontoparietal network was associated with increased activity within the inferior parietal lobe and middle frontal gyrus , regions known to play a key role in WM function . Activation in these regions increases with WM demands and its damage leads to impairments of WM  . In keeping with these findings , we show that increased activity within the right inferior parietal lobe correlated with faster responses during the 2-back , supporting a link between neural activity and the behavioral effects of tACS . This is in agreement with the critical role of this region during WM maintenance  , and the observations that disrupting its activity through transcranial magnetic stimulation affects performance in both spatial and verbal WM tasks  . Furthermore , during maintenance of items in WM the parietal cortex is positively associated with trial-by-trial performance and inter-individual differences in WM capacity  . Moreover , our results are congruent with findings from other studies showing correlations between BOLD activity or connectivity density and response times in similar verbal WM tasks  . Thus , by increasing neural activity in the parietal region , tACS might have interacted with the physiological mechanisms associated with response production . As the maintenance of information in WM relies on the coordination of distant brain regions , the effects of tACS on functional connectivity may inform the mechanisms by which oscillations modulate long-range connectivity . During synchronous stimulation , functional connectivity increased between the IPL-electrode region and frontal parts of the frontoparietal network , that is , DLPFC . Increased frontoparietal functional connectivity has previously been observed during WM processing  , is associated with higher accuracy and faster RTs  , and is linked to increased theta synchrony  . Our results extend these findings by showing how externally induced theta synchrony can increase frontoparietal interactions between the parietal cortex and DLPFC that are important for WM processing . One possible explanation for this finding is that functional connectivity between the frontal and other brain regions was already operating at peak levels in the task periods without stimulation and could not be further modulated by tACS . In this framework , it is possible that tACS applied at the theta frequency would differentially enhance feedforward connectivity across the synchronized fronto-parietal network . Studies combining tACS with electrophysiological methods could help explore this hypothesis . While synchronous stimulation resulted in increased functional connectivity between parietal and frontal areas , desynchronous tACS was associated with increased connectivity to occipital regions , which could suggest an increase in information exchange between higher- and low-level areas . One interpretation of our findings is that high WM demands are normally associated with high levels of frontoparietal connectivity , and this can be enhanced by synchronous tACS applied across the network . Converging evidence that this can be externally modulated is provided by the observation that in- and out-of-phase tACS applied in the gamma band modulates inter-hemispheric connectivity and shapes visual perception  . First , there is unbalanced electric field distribution between the tACS conditions  , which is a consequence of using a common return electrode . Nevertheless , although synchronous and desynchronous tACS resulted in different current distributions in the brain , our results could not have been predicted by a current density model . These results further demonstrate that the effects of brain stimulation cannot be determined without taking into account the underlying brain dynamics  and provide additional support for the critical neural state-dependency of tACS  . Future work will need to use high-density multi-channel stimulators to improve the focality of the cortical effect of tACS . However , the parameter space of possible stimulation regimes is very large and it is likely that other combinations of tACS parameters  will produce greater effects on cognition . Other studies have shown that additional forms of non-invasive transcranial electrical stimulation  , particularly transcranial direct current stimulation  modulate WM performance . But are tDCS and tACS acting through similar mechanisms ? Furthermore , a recent study elegantly demonstrated that WM performance is very sensitive to the external stimulation parameters  . Overall , our findings indicate a direct link between behavioral performance in a demanding working-memory task and large-scale brain synchronization across a right frontoparietal network activated by the task . We showed how manipulations of tACS phase modulate the underlying brain activity and that tACS can influence long-range connectivity in a phase- and brain state- dependent manner . More generally , our work shows the potential of performing simultaneous tACS-fMRI to understand the neural mechanisms underlying externally induced oscillatory synchronization . One participant was excluded from the 2-back analysis in Experiment 2 due to low accuracy  . 56 for the 2-back task . The sample size in Experiment 1 was chosen based on the effect sizes , between synchronous and desynchronous stimulation , observed in a previous study showing phase-dependent tACS modulations of RTs in a WM task  . Participants performed tasks with different levels of cognitive difficulty . In Experiment 1 participants performed two tasks , the choice-reaction task  and two versions of the N-back task: 1-back and 2-back . In Experiment 2 participants performed the CRT and the 2-back tasks in separate runs in a block design paradigm , with alternating periods of task  and fixation at a cross  . Participants performed 180 trials . The N-back is a WM task that requires on-line monitoring , and manipulation of remembered information . In the 2-back task participants detected a repetition of the digit occurring two trials before , whereas in the 1-back task they detected whether the stimulus matched the one presented in the previous trial . Participants performed 270 trials in Experiment 1 and 180 trials in Experiment 2 . TACS was delivered in two different conditions:  Synchronous condition  – Electrodes F4 and P4 with a 0° phase offset and return electrode at T8;  Desynchronous condition  – same montage as in the ‘synchronous’ condition , but electrodes F4 and P4 had a 180° phase offset . In both conditions stimulation began with a 1 s ramp-up and ended with a 1s ramp-down . In Experiment 1 , participants performed one session of each tACS condition and sham in a pseudo-randomized cross-over design . Stimulation was administered for the duration of the tasks , starting at the beginning of each task and finishing when the task was over , total stimulation duration was 26 . During sham sessions , tACS was applied in the synchronous condition for 30 s at the beginning of each task . In Experiment 2 , tACS was applied in a pseudo-randomized order for the duration of task  or fixation blocks  , where a fixation cross was presented centrally . The application of short trains of tACS has the advantage of allowing the measurement of many periods of neural entrainment without an increase of oscillatory power due to tACS aftereffects  . Each participant performed one fMRI run of each task and tACS condition  . The order of the runs was counterbalanced across participants . In each run participants performed 24 blocks  . Total stimulation duration in Experiment 2 was 20 min  . A subset of participants  were questioned after each block whether they perceived the tACS stimulation; the question ‘Have you had stimulation ? In agreement with previous studies  the tACS montage employed in the study did not cause image artifacts . In the case of the synchronous tACS condition three electrodes were included in the model: two anodes  and one cathode  . In the case of the desynchronous tACS condition the current in the cathode is cancelled by the opposing flow of currents in the anodes; this condition was modeled with an anode and a cathode  . Before each experiment all participants were exposed to tACS stimulation for a short period of time  to ensure that they were comfortable to proceed with the experiment . Participants were blind to the stimulation condition applied . Analysis of the tACS questionnaires for Experiment 1 indicated that participants were unaware whether or not they received stimulation  . In Experiment 2 , participants’ demonstrated low accuracy for correctly detecting stimulation blocks  , which were explained by participants either perceiving stimulation during non-stimulation periods , or not perceiving the stimulation at all . Importantly , there was no difference between the accuracy for perceiving stimulation between the synchronous and desynchronous tACS conditions in the 2-back task ( t  = 1 . 136 ) , indicating that our results were not influenced by participants perceiving the two tACS conditions differently . There was no significant difference between tACS conditions  for any of the side effects  , for Experiment 1 . RTs were normally distributed  for all subjects and all conditions , with the exception of one subject for the CRT task in the sham condition . 
Embryonic polarity of invertebrates , amphibians and fish is specified largely by maternal determinants , which fixes cell fates early in development . In contrast , amniote embryos remain plastic and can form multiple individuals until gastrulation . How is their polarity determined ? In the chick embryo , the earliest known factor is cVg1  , a transforming growth factor beta  signal expressed posteriorly before gastrulation . A molecular screen to find upstream regulators of cVg1 in normal embryos and in embryos manipulated to form twins now uncovers the transcription factor Pitx2 as a candidate . We show that Pitx2 is essential for axis formation , and that it acts as a direct regulator of cVg1 expression by binding to enhancers within neighbouring genes . Pitx2 , Vg1/GDF1 and Nodal are also key actors in left–right asymmetry , suggesting that the same ancient polarity determination mechanism has been co-opted to different functions during evolution . Separation of the first two blastomeres can lead to twinning: the formation of genetically identical , complete individuals  . Separation of blastomeres after the four-cell stage , however , does not generate twins; in most cases it interferes with development of even a single embryo owing to the removal of important determinants that have by then segregated to different cells . Some species of the armadillo genus Dasypus generate quadruplets or octuplets from a single fertilisation event , as a result of two or more sequential ‘splitting’ events of the embryo at a stage when it is already highly multicellular  . Conjoined  twins occur in mammals including humans  and are also seen in reptiles  and birds  ; most of these are thought to arise from splitting of the embryo relatively late in development  . Perhaps the most dramatic example is seen in the chick , where cutting an embryo into fragments at the blastoderm stage  can lead to each fragment generating a complete embryo; up to eight embryos have been generated from a single blastoderm by experimental splitting , right up to the time of appearance of the primitive streak  . The ability of higher vertebrate embryos to retain a regulative model of development until such a late stage strongly suggests that localisation of maternally inherited determinants is not an essential component of the mechanisms specifying embryo polarity  . Moreover , since a single blastoderm can generate multiple embryos , mechanisms must exist that suppress this ability in regions of the embryo that do not normally initiate axis formation  . In chick embryos , the earliest symmetry breaking event known is the localised expression of cVg1 , the chick orthologue of mammalian growth differentiation factor 1  —a member of the transforming growth factor beta  superfamily of secreted proteins—encoding a Nodal/Activin-type molecule that signals through Smad2/3  . Before primitive streak stages , cVg1 is expressed in the posterior marginal zone  , an extraembryonic region adjacent to where the primitive streak will form; misexpression of cVg1 in other  parts of the marginal zone is sufficient to induce a complete axis from adjacent embryonic cells  . The mechanisms that position cVg1 in the PMZ are unknown . Moreover , when a blastoderm is cut in half at right angles to the future primitive streak axis , cVg1 expression spontaneously initiates in the marginal zone adjacent to the cut edge , in either the right or left side at equal frequency , foreshadowing the appearance of the primitive streak a few hours later  . This observation shows that the mechanisms that position cVg1 are active in the blastoderm stage embryo . Here we take advantage of these observations to design a molecular screen for new genes involved in the earliest stages of specifying embryo polarity; together with bioinformatic analysis and embryological experiments we identify the transcription factor Pitx2 as a direct and essential regulator of cVg1 expression both during normal development and in embryonic regulation  . To search for putative upstream regulators of cVg1 , we took advantage of two of its properties: that it is expressed in the PMZ at early stages of development and that when a blastoderm is cut in half at right angles to the axis of the future primitive streak , cVg1 expression is initiated stochastically on either the left or the right corner  of the isolated anterior half  . We therefore performed two screens . First , we dissected the PMZ and an equivalent anterior explant  from 40 embryos  and analysed their transcriptomes using Affymetrix microarrays  . At this stage of development , it is not possible to predict the polarity of the embryo with complete certainty . To prevent contamination of the samples , we designed a verification strategy by which the predicted posterior and anterior explants were collected , the rest of the embryo immediately fixed and then processed for in situ hybridisation for cVg1 , developing the colour reaction for long enough to detect residual cVg1 expression around the posterior explant site . From each set of 40 embryos , approximately 36 had been dissected correctly; the explants from the remainder  were discarded  . Microarray screens for upstream regulators of cVg1 . Diagram of the first screen: the posterior marginal zone  and anterior marginal zone  were dissected from embryos at stage XI–XII; the remaining embryo was then fixed and stained for cVg1 by in situ hybridisation  to confirm that the explants had been obtained from the correct regions . This was done from 40 embryos for each of three biological replicates , which were then run on microarrays . The diagram is accompanied by an example of an embryo after ISH . All 120 embryos are shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Hierarchical clustering of differentially expressed genes for this experiment , and a plot of where cVg1-like probes  are displayed in red and cVg1-unlike  probes shown in green across triplicate samples  . Probes identified as upregulated in the PMZ with a log2 fold change cut-off of 0 . 263  are displayed in red and those identified as downregulated in the PMZ with the same cut-off are displayed in blue . Diagram of the second screen . An embryo at stage XI–XII was cut in half at a right angle to the future midline; the posterior half was fixed for ISH with cVg1 to confirm the orientation  , and the isolated anterior half cultured for 7 hr . At this point , a small explant was dissected from the marginal zone adjacent to the left and right side of the cut , and the remaining anterior half-embryo fixed for ISH with cVg1  . This allowed identification of the ‘cVg1-like’ and ‘cVg1-unlike’ explants , which were then pooled appropriately . This was done for 70 embryos for each of three biological replicates; all 210 posterior and anterior fragments are shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 2 after ISH for cVg1 . Hierarchical clustering of the probes expressed differentially in this assay , and corresponding scatter plot; details similar to  ≠V1 , ≠V2 , and ≠V3 correspond to each of the triplicate samples that do not express cVg1 and = V1 , =V2 , and = V3 correspond to explants that express cVg1 . Venn diagrams showing the intersection of upregulated and downregulated probes common to both the PMZ and isolated anterior cut halves . A total of 122 upregulated probes and 78 downregulated probes were found to be common in both experiments using both p value and fold change as the criteria . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . The 120 embryos used for the first screen  , after excision of the explants and ISH for cVg1 . The three sets of 40 embryos correspond to those used for each Affymetrix microarray . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . The 210 embryos used for the second screen  . The procedure shown in Figure 1C was used . Embryos  were bisected at right angles to the midline , the posterior half  fixed immediately and processed by ISH for cVg1 to confirm the orientation of the cut . The anterior half was cultured for 7 hr , a piece of marginal zone adjacent to the cut edge excised from each side , and the remainder of the anterior half fixed and processed for cVg1 expression  . The pieces corresponding to the side expressing cVg1 were pooled together  , and those on the opposite side pooled with each other  . Seventy embryos were used for each microarray , and the experiment performed in triplicate . The sets of embryo fragments shown here correspond to each of the three microarrays . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Analysis of microarray datasets for posterior marginal zone  and isolated anterior cut halves . Volcano plots showing the correlation between p values and fold change of probes for each microarray experiment . The left graphs displays gene expression data from whole embryos  , and the second graph displays data from the anterior cut halves  . 05 together with a fold change cut-off of 1 . Those that do not pass the p value threshold of 0 . 05 but pass the fold change cut-off of 1 . Those that pass the p value threshold of 0 . 05 but not the fold change cut-off of 1 . The heat map on the right side of the figure uses hierarchical clustering to compare the 122 upregulated  and 78 downregulated  probes from the PMZ  and the isolated anterior cut halves expressing cVg1  . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 006 Next , we used a similar strategy for isolated anterior halves of embryos . It was previously reported that cVg1 starts to be expressed in either the left or right corner of the cut anterior half around 6 hr after bisection  . We chose to collect the left and right corners of the marginal zone adjacent to the cut edge 7 hr following bisection to ensure that surrounding cVg1 expression could be detected after excision of the fragment . To confirm that all embryos had been cut at exactly right angles to the future axis , the posterior half of each embryo was fixed immediately after cutting and subjected to in situ hybridisation for cVg1 . The anterior half was cultured for 7 hr , the left and right corners of the margin were dissected , and the remainder was fixed and processed for cVg1 expression  . We estimated that 70 explants would be needed for microarray analysis of each sample; this was done in triplicate  . Samples were designated ‘cVg1-like’ or ‘cVg1-unlike’ based on this and pooled accordingly . This strategy randomised any left–right asymmetric genes unrelated to axial polarity and regulation , and enriched those for the cells in which cVg1 was just starting to be expressed de novo in one sample , and their contralateral equivalents  in the other . RNA from the pooled explants  was analysed using Affymetrix chicken microarrays . The intersection between the two datasets from the above screens was used to identify genes co-regulated with cVg1 , as well as those that are enriched in equivalent regions not expressing cVg1 , both in normal embryos and during regulation  . Using a threshold of just 1 . 2-fold change and p < 0 . 05 , this strategy identified 122 sequences  with putative ‘cVg1-like’ expression  and 78 sequences  expressed more highly in the ‘Vg1-unlike’ explants  . A list of the top common genes ranked by fold change is shown in Table 1 . Comparison of the top ‘Vg1-like’ candidates from whole embryos  with their counterparts from half-embryos shows highly significant correlation  . Confirming that the screen was performed appropriately , cVg1  itself appears among the top genes: it is upregulated 4 . 3 fold , with a p value of 0 . 00006  in whole embryos , and 1 . 0062 in the isolated anterior half  . Among all genes , Pitx2 immediately stands out as the best candidate , being very strongly co-regulated with cVg1 and the top transcription factor on the list . In the PMZ of whole embryos Pitx2 is upregulated almost 10-fold compared to the AMZ explants  , whereas in the cut halves it is upregulated by about 2 . 4 fold  . 007Table 1 . Genes identified from the screens , sorted according to their ranking in PMZ>AMZ in whole embryosDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 007Posterior vs anteriorAnterior half , Vg1-likeGene symbolProbe IDFold changep ValueRankFold changep ValueRankADMPGga . 06862PITX2Gga . 00698PITX2Gga . 02677ST6-GAL2Gga . 204833PITX2Gga . 00266MIXL1Gga . 023763GDF3Gga . 006221PMEPA1Gga . 010312PMEPA1GgaAffx . 000319TBX6Gga . 021013FGF8Gga . 063350ELK3Gga . 001043LITAFGga . 011025LITAFGga . 028466List of the top 20 common upregulated probes expressed in both the PMZ of whole embryo and isolated anterior cut halves . Entries in red are probes that pass a fold change cut-off of 1 . 2 as well as a p value cut-off of 0 . 05; those in blue pass the fold change cut off of 1 . 2 but not the p value cut-off of 0 . 05; and those in black pass the p value cut-off but not the fold change . Common genes are ranked according to the fold change of genes expressed in the PMZ  . To confirm the microarray results , we examined 53 of the differentially expressed genes by whole-mount in situ hybridisation at pre-primitive streak stages X-XIII   . Apart from Pitx2 three other genes show a similar expression to cVg1 at stage XII: Elk3  , PKDCC  and LITAF  . Others are expressed in cells adjacent to the PMZ  , such as ADMP , Brachyury  , Mixl1 , Tbx6 , FGF8 , and CHRD , or are expressed much later  , such as DENND5B . All of these rank lower than Pitx2  : Elk3 ranks 17th in whole embryos and 43rd in cut halves , PKDCC ranks 7th in whole embryos and 33rd in the anterior half , and LITAF ranks 18–19th in whole embryos and 17th and 25th in anterior halves . Pitx2 is therefore the strongest candidate as a putative regulator of cVg1 . The ‘cVg1-unlike’ genes  give less obvious information . Comparison of the top genes identified from differential expression in whole embryos  with their counterparts in the corners of anterior halves reveals weak correlation  . In situ hybridisation for these genes does not show enrichment in the AMZ or any other obvious pattern consistent with a putative role as an inhibitor of cVg1 expression in the PMZ at the appropriate stages of development  . Pitx2 therefore remains as the most likely candidate . Expression of ‘cVg1-like’ and ‘cVg1-unlike’ genes , verified by in situ hybridisation . Embryos at stage X–XIII  were processed using in situ hybridisation for genes co-regulated with cVg1 ( ‘cVg1-like’ , Table 1A–B  and genes expressed at lower level in the cVg1-positive region than in its counterpart   , from the two microarray screens  . The expression of 23 genes  is shown here . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 009Table 2 . Genes identified from the screens , sorted according to their ranking in cVg1-like > -unlike in isolated anterior halvesDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 009Anterior half , Vg1-likePosterior vs anteriorGene symbolProbe IDFold changep ValueRankFold changep ValueRankTGga . 00801ST6GAL2Gga . 07445PITX2Gga . 00013MIXL1Gga . 01609PITX2Gga . 00094PITX2Gga . 00012DENND5BGga . 195227WNT8AGga . 095930PMEPA1Gga . 080512TBX6Gga . 000414HOXB1Gga . 119585SOHO-1Gga . 1282106LITAFGga . 001919MLLT6Gga . 009132PMEPA1GgaAffx . 000713FAM19A1Gga . 095641List of the top 20 common upregulated probes expressed in both the PMZ of whole embryo and isolated anterior cut halves . Entries in red are probes that pass a fold change cut-off of 1 . 2 as well as a p value cut-off of 0 . 05; those in blue pass the fold change cut off of 1 . 2 but not the p value cut-off of 0 . 05; and those in black pass the p value cut-off but not the fold change . Common genes are ranked according to the fold change of genes in the anterior cut halves  . 010Table 3 . Genes identified from the screens , sorted according to their ranking in AMZ > PMZ in whole embryosDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 010Posterior vs anteriorAnterior half , Vg1-likeGene symbolProbe IDFold changep ValueRankFold changep ValueRankLPLGga . 019169UPK1BGga . 004615UPK1BGga . 00032SPOCK3GgaAffx . 017424SLC1A3GgaAffx . 027247SLC5A1Gga . 08571BASP1Gga . 007975ID3Gga . 046334ATP13A4GgaAffx . 014871DIO3Gga . 037612UPK1BGga . 00143COL4A2Gga . 005958SLC1A3GgaAffx . 036360LRP2GgaAffx . 014455EFNB2Gga . 022042---Gga . 020329---Gga . 006843GABRA1Gga . 097820GLRA3GgaAffx . 020910DIO2Gga . 002525List of the top 20 downregulated probes common to both the PMZ of whole embryo and isolated anterior cut halves . Entries in red are probes that pass a fold change cut-off of −1 . 2 as well as a p value cut-off of 0 . 05; those in blue pass the fold change cut off of −1 . 2 but not the p value cut-off of 0 . 05; and those in black pass the p value cut-off but not the fold change cut-off . Common genes are ranked according to the fold change of genes in the PMZ  . 011Table 4 . Genes identified from the screens , sorted according to their ranking in Vg1-unlike > Vg1-like in isolated anterior halvesDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 011Anterior half , Vg1-likePosterior vs anteriorGene symbolProbe IDFold changep ValueRankFold changep ValueRankSLC5A1Gga . 28146UPK1BGga . 03833UPK1BGga . 234832FSTL4Gga . 001451GABARB2Gga . 064745KCNAB1Gga . 177730CBLN4GgaAffx . 056440GLRA3GgaAffx . 000119SLC14A2Gga . 056122DIO3Gga . 005110KCNMA1Gga . 009763GRB10GgaAffx . 023676UPK1BGga . 06622CALD1GgaAffx . 014429OLFML3Gga . 014962---Gga . 031248GABRA1Gga . 106718List of the top 20 downregulated probes common to both the PMZ of whole embryo and isolated anterior cut halves . Entries in red are probes that pass a fold change cut-off of −1 . 2 as well as a p value cut-off of 0 . 05; those in blue pass the fold change cut off of −1 . 2 but not the p value cut-off of 0 . 05; and those in black pass the p value cut-off but not the fold change cut-off . Common genes are ranked according to the fold change of genes in the anterior cut halves  . To determine the temporal relationship between Pitx2 and cVg1 in whole embryos and during embryonic regulation , we compared their expression in time-course . In normal embryos cVg1 is first detected at around stage XI  . We detected Pitx2 in the PMZ by the time of laying , stage X  , where it remains until early streak stages  . In isolated anterior halves , we increased the sensitivity of the assay by developing the NBT/BCIP colour reaction for several days to ensure that even weak expression could be detected . With this strategy we detected cVg1 expression 4–5 hr after cutting  , 1–2 hr earlier than in previous reports  , while Pitx2 appeared even earlier , just 3 hr after embryo bisection  . Taken together , these results implicate Pitx2 as a good candidate for an upstream regulator of cVg1 expression: it is a transcription factor , it is expressed in the same domain as cVg1 in whole embryos and in bisected embryo marginal zone , and it is expressed before cVg1 . Time-course of expression of Pitx2 in whole embryos and in isolated anterior halves , and comparison with cVg1 . Time-course of Pitx2 expression in whole embryos . Expression is restricted to the posterior marginal zone  already at the time of laying  ; this intensifies over the subsequent stages . At primitive streak stages  , expression is seen in the primitive streak itself as well as in the PMZ  . Comparison of the time-course of Pitx2  and cVg1  upregulation in isolated anterior halves . cVg1 is first detectable 4–5 hr after cutting  , whereas Pitx2 can be detected an hour earlier  . Both Pitx2 and cVg1 expression appears randomly on the left or the right corner of the marginal zone adjacent to the cut edge . The series chosen for this figure shows upregulation on the right side of all embryo fragments . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 012 To determine whether Pitx2 is important for embryonic regulation and for controlling cVg1 expression , we used targeted electroporation of morpholino oligonucleotides  . When a translation-blocking Pitx2-MO was targeted to the right edge of an isolated anterior half embryo , the frequency of axis formation shifted to the opposite side  : embryos electroporated with control-MO at the right edge had random cVg1 expression on the right , left or neither edges in equal proportion . In contrast , Pitx2-MO on the right generated a majority  of embryos with no expression and the remaining embryo with expression on the opposite side 7 hr post-electroporation  . After 16 hr  embryos electroporated with control-MO at the right edge formed a primitive streak expressing Brachyury randomly; with Pitx2-MO on the right  , 8/10 embryos formed a streak on the left side and 2 had two streaks  , but no embryo formed a single streak arising from the MO-transfected side  . Equivalent results were observed with MO electroporations on the left  : control-MO embryos transfected on the left and examined for cVg1 expression had random expression on the right , whereas for Pitx2-MO cVg1 expression was biased towards the left . After 16 hr , control embryos transfected on the left formed a Bra-expressing streak on the right , again randomly , while Pitx2-MO embryos formed a streak on the right in 2/8 cases , none on the left , 1/8 on both sides and 5/8 with no streak   . Pitx2 is required for cVg1 expression and for axis formation . A morpholino  targeting Pitx2 applied to one side of the marginal zone of an isolated anterior half shifts axis formation to the opposite marginal zone . The experiment done on the right side  ,  the equivalent done on the left marginal zone . The top row shows diagrams of the experiment , the middle row shows embryo fragments 7 hr after electroporation/cutting , hybridised for cVg1  and stained with anti-fluorescein  , and the lower row shows fragments processed for Brachyury  in purple and fluorescein in brown . In whole embryos , Pitx2-MO has a transient effect . At 5 hr , cVg1 expression is lost , at 12 hr a primitive streak  is sometimes seen especially at the edge of the electroporated domain , but by 16 hr embryos appear essentially normal . Shows embryos electroporated with control-MO , F are embryos transfected with Pitx2-MO . Embryos electroporated with MOs targeting both Pitx2 and Pitx1 do not recover: at 5 hr , no cVg1 is seen; at 12–16 hr there is a high proportion of embryos with either no streak or two T-expressing streaks arising from outside the MO-electroporated domain  . This effect can be rescued by co-electroporation of Pitx2 with the mixture of Pitx1-MO/Pitx2-MO  . Likewise , in isolated anterior half-embryos , the effects of electroporation of the Pitx1-MO/Pitx2-MO combination  can be rescued by co-electroporation with Pitx2 alone  : cVg1 expression is now seen on the electroporated side . Arrowheads point to sites of expression . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Numbers of embryos displaying different types of results in the Pitx loss-of-function experiments illustrated in the main Figure . The table columns show each type of result obtained: ‘Vg1 R’ refers to embryos showing cVg1 expression on the right side , ‘streak L’ when there is a Brachyury-expressing primitive streak on the left , ‘streak L/R’ when there are two streaks  , etc . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Pitx1 is expressed posteriorly in normal embryos , and upregulated in Pitx2 morphants . The upper row of images show embryos at stages X , XI and XII processed for in situ hybridisation for Pitx1 . The left lower embryo shows upregulation of Pitx1  , 5 hr after electroporation of Pitx2-MO  . The right lower image shows lack of effect of similar electroporation of a control-MO . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 015 In intact embryos electroporated at stage X , Pitx2-MO affected cVg1 expression and streak formation  . Control-MO targeted to the PMZ did not alter cVg1 expression after 5 hr or streak formation after 12–16 hr  . With Pitx2-MO , cVg1 expression was affected after 5 hr  . Embryos started to recover , however , at later time points: at 12 hr , 3/12 had a normal streak , 3/12 had a displaced streak , 3/12 had two streaks , and the remaining 3/12 had no streaks  . By 16 hr , the majority of the embryos were normal   . These results suggest that while knockdown of Pitx2 affects cVg1 expression , embryos tend to recover by 12–16 hr . We reasoned that functional redundancy with another Pitx gene , or compensatory upregulation of such a gene in response to Pitx2 knockdown , could account for this recovery . To test this , we examined Pitx1 expression in normal embryos at stages X–XII and in embryos electroporated with Pitx2-MO . Pitx1 is barely detectable in the PMZ at stage X–XII  . After Pitx2-MO electroporation , expression increased considerably  . We therefore repeated the targeting experiments in whole embryos using a mixture of two MOs targeting the translation start site of Pitx2 and an internal splice junction of Pitx1 , respectively . Pitx1+2-MOs caused loss of cVg1 at 5 hr in 6/6 cases  . By 12 hr 1/9 embryos had a normal streak , 3/9 had a displaced streak , 3/9 had two streaks and 2/9 had none  . By 16 hr no recovery was observed: 4/4 embryos had double streaks , neither arising from the targeted site  . This effect could be rescued by supplying Pitx2 alone: co-electroporation of Pitx1+2-MO together with a Pitx2 expression construct lacking the MO target sequence led to normal axis formation: in 5/6 cases cVg1 expression was restored after 5 hr incubation and by 16 hr 12/16 embryos displayed a normal streak  . Likewise in isolated anterior halves , the effects of Pitx1+2-MO  could be rescued by Pitx2 . After electroporation on the right , cVg1 expression was seen on the right in 4/10 , on the left in 3/10 , and in neither in 3/10 cases  . After 16 hr a primitive streak developed on the right in 3/8 cases , on the left in 2/8 and no streak in 3/8 cases  . In conclusion , Pitx2 is required for expression of cVg1 in the PMZ as well as for formation of the normal primitive streak . In isolated anterior halves , Pitx2 is required both for cVg1 expression and for the later formation of a primitive streak . Knockdown of Pitx2 is followed by upregulation of the related transcription factor Pitx1 , which can partly compensate for the loss of Pitx2 . The cVg1 gene  is located on chicken chromosome 28 . As a parallel approach to the above to identify putative upstream regulators , we applied a recently described pipeline  , starting with prediction of conserved , constitutive CTCF-binding sites   around this locus which could act as insulators . This was followed by algorithms to identify conserved motifs in non-coding regions that are order independent , modified from the Enhancer Discovery using only Genomic Information  tool described for Drosophila  . CTCF insulator analysis , enhancer identification and synteny of the cVg1 locus . The chicken cVg1 locus with computationally predicted conserved CTCF-binding sites in chick , human , and mouse is shown  . This putative insulator region lies ∼200 kB upstream and ∼100 kB downstream of cVg1/GDF3 and harbours other genes such as CERS1/Lass1 , COPE , DDX49 and HOMER3 upstream and UPF1 downstream of cVg1 . Six putative enhancer regions  , predicted using DREiVe , are displayed in pink . In chick , E1  and E2  lie in the first intron of the bicistronic CERS1/Lass1 gene . E3  and E4  lie in intron 4 of CERS1/Lass1 and E5  and E6  respectively lie in introns 1 and 2 of HOMER3 . E1 and E3 each contain conserved Pitx1  and Pitx2  binding sites . E2 and E4 do not contain any Pitx sites and E5 and E6 contain Pitx2-binding sites but no Pitx1-binding sites . The orthologous regions of human  and mouse  genomes are also shown . Note that the corresponding human region has been inverted , and that although all six elements are found within it , these appear in different order and are associated with different introns and intergenic regions than in chick and mouse . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Expression of genes adjacent to cVg1/GDF3 on chick chromosome 28 . Expression of Lass1/CERS1 , HOMER3 , COPE and UPF1 is shown . All are expressed posteriorly although the patterns are not quite identical to each other . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 017 The insulator-predicting software identifies strongly conserved CTCF-binding sites about 200 kB upstream and about 100 kB downstream of cVg1/GDF3  . The cVg1/GDF3 gene itself is bicistronic , the upstream exons encoding Lass1/CERS1 and the last two exons containing the cVg1 sequence  . Several other genes lie in this region , including COPE , DDX49 and HOMER3 upstream and UPF1 downstream . If the predicted CTCF-binding sites are indeed insulators , we would expect these genes to be co-regulated with cVg1 . To test this , we examined their expression . Strikingly , all genes examined  are expressed in a similar domain of the PMZ as cVg1  . This identifies six domains  , ranging in size from 600–3000 bases , located within the introns of CERS1/LASS1 and of the neighbouring Homer3 in chick  . Analysis of these regions using Position Frequency Matrices from JASPAR and TRANSFAC databases together with the algorithms Matrix-Scan  and Clover predicts four of these regions  to contain one or more putative binding sites for Pitx2 and/or the related factor Pitx1  . In mouse  the arrangement is similar to chick  . To determine whether any of the predicted regions bind Pitx2 in the PMZ of normal embryos , we conducted chromatin-immunoprecipitation experiments  , assessing precipitation by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction  analysis using primers targeting the predicted regions . We compared chromatin from the AMZ and PMZ  . A monoclonal antibody against Pitx2 precipitated chromatin from the PMZ more effectively than from the AMZ for all predicted enhancers that contained consensus Pitx1/2-binding sites  but not those that do not  . These findings suggest that Pitx2 is differentially bound to putative enhancer sites E3 , E5 , and E6 in the PMZ of normal embryos . We also tested each of the six putative enhancer regions for acetylation of Lys-27 of Histone-3  , which is associated with active enhancers  . Enhancers E5 and E6 showed the greatest differential activity in the PMZ relative to the AMZ . Together , these results suggest that E3 , E5 , and E6 are the most likely enhancers driving expression in the PMZ . Chromatin immunoprecipitation to test for active histone marks and Pitx2 binding to predicted enhancers . Relative immunoprecipitation around each of the putative six enhancers by an antibody to Pitx2  or an antibody to acetyl-lysine-27 of Histone-H3  , expressed as a ratio of the amount precipitated from posterior and anterior marginal zone  chromatin . Primers were used to target each of the putative enhancers and precipitated chromatin measured by the quantitative polymerase chain reaction  . Amplification from input DNA from each of the same samples is also shown  . Note that enhancers that contain Pitx2-binding sites  are precipitated much more strongly from the PMZ than the AMZ . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 018 To test whether these putative enhancers do indeed direct transcription in the correct endogenous domain , we generated reporter constructs based on a vector designed by the group of Kondoh  . Each construct contained one candidate enhancer  , a minimal promoter  , and a reporter fluorescent protein  and was electroporated either in a very broad domain including the PMZ and lateral marginal zones of normal embryos , or encompassing the entire cut edge  of bisected embryos and the anterior half subsequently cultured . A ubiquitous reporter  was co-electroporated with each construct to reveal the extent of the electroporated domain  . Embryos were then photographed live to reveal the electroporated and expressing domains , then fixed and processed for in situ hybridisation for cVg1 to determine whether the side with reporter activity corresponds to the cVg1 expressing region . In whole embryos , E3 and E5 are most efficient in driving expression of the reporter in the PMZ  . The same two enhancers also drive expression in the cVg1-expressing side in isolated anterior halves  . Enhancers E3 and E5 drive expression in the posterior marginal zone of whole embryos . Embryos were electroporated with a construct containing a candidate enhancer  , a minimal promoter  and a fluorescent reporter  , together with a ubiquitous marker  to reveal the electroporated area . After 5–9 hr culture the embryos were observed by fluorescence  and then fixed and processed to reveal cVg1 expression by in situ hybridisation  . Enhancers E3 and E5 faithfully recapitulate cVg1 expression in the posterior marginal zone  , whereas E1 drives expression inside the embryo  and the remaining enhancers show little or no detectable activity . In all cases , the electroporated area appears red and the activity of the specific enhancer construct in green . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Effects of mutations in Pitx-binding sites on activity of cVg1 enhancers in whole embryos . Each of the enhancers containing Pitx1- or Pitx2-binding sites was mutated either singly or , for those enhancers containing more than one discrete site , both together . The mutation is shown diagrammatically on the left column . In columns 2–5 , the area electroporated  appears in red and expression driven by the specific enhancer construct in green . The last column shows cVg1 expression revealed by in situ hybridisation in the same embryos . Enhancer E1 is unaffected by mutation of either Pitx1- or Pitx2-binding sites , and continues to be active inside the embryo but not in the PMZ . E6 is also unchanged by mutation of the Pitx2-binding site  . The activity of enhancers and E3 , E5 is destroyed by mutation of any of the Pitx1/2-binding sites . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Enhancers E3 and E5 drive expression in the cVg1-expressing corner of the marginal zone at the cut edge of isolated anterior half-embryos . Embryos were electroporated with the same vectors as described in Figure 7 , then bisected . The anterior half was then cultured for 5–7 hr and viewed under fluorescence  , then fixed and processed for cVg1 expression  . Enhancers E3 and E5 drive expression of the reporter at the cVg1-expressing edge of isolated anterior half-embryos . Note that unlike what is found in whole embryos , Enhancer E1 does not appear to drive expression in the area pellucida of the isolated anterior half . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Effects of mutations in Pitx-binding sites on activity of cVg1 enhancers in isolated anterior halves . Each of the enhancers containing Pitx1- or Pitx2-binding sites was mutated either singly or , for those enhancers containing more than one discrete site , both together . The mutation is shown diagrammatically on the left column . The specific activity of E3 and E5 is destroyed by mutation of any of the Pitx-binding sites . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 022 To test whether the Pitx-binding sites are required within these enhancers to direct expression to the appropriate domain , we generated reporter constructs for enhancers E1 , E3 , E5 , and E6 containing mutations in each Pitx1- or Pitx2-binding site as well as constructs where all Pitx-binding sites were mutated . In whole embryos , mutations in either of the Pitx-binding sites  or in both binding sites  of E1 still showed GFP expression without selectivity , in the middle of the embryo . For E3 and E5 , however , mutations in either a single or both binding sites of each reporter completely abolished expression in the PMZ  . Un-mutated reporter E6 , which did not show any activity  , was not altered by a mutation of its Pitx2-binding site  . Similar results were found in isolated anterior half-embryos: mutations of any of the Pitx-binding sites in E3 or E5 completely eliminated expression in the cVg1-expressing corner of the isolated half  . Taken together , these results suggest that cVg1 expression is regulated directly by Pitx2/Pitx1 binding to an enhancer  within an intron of the HOMER3 gene , adjacent to cVg1/GDF3 , and to an intronic enhancer  within the Lass1/CERS1 locus . The ChIP experiments suggest that Pitx2 binding to an additional intronic enhancer in HOMER3  may also be functional in the PMZ , although this was not seen when a reporter construct containing this element was electroporated into the PMZ . The same enhancers  are involved in controlling cVg1 expression in the normal PMZ as in the portion of the lateral marginal zone where cVg1 is upregulated a few hours after isolation of a portion of embryo . These results implicate the transcription factor Pitx2 as the earliest gene described to date that regulates the position of the embryonic axis as well as embryonic regulation/regeneration and twinning . The PMZ of the chick embryo is the equivalent of the Nieuwkoop centre of amphibians: it can induce a complete axis including the organiser from neighbouring cells , without making a cellular contribution to the axis  . The Nodal/Activin-related TGFβ superfamily member cVg1  is expressed in the PMZ . When ectopically applied to another region of the marginal zone , cVg1 is sufficient to initiate formation of a complete embryonic axis from adjacent embryonic  cells  . To act , cVg1 requires canonical Wnt , which seems to be provided mainly by cWnt8C , expressed all around the marginal zone  . A target of cVg1 and Wnt is Nodal , transcribed in area pellucida cells next to the cVg1+Wnt expression domain  . The anterior end of the embryo also has an early identity , defined by the expression of GATA binding protein 2   . However , unlike cVg1 , GATA2 is not a sufficient determinant of polarity and at best only acts as a bias  . While amphibian and teleost embryos lose their ability to generate complete , independent embryos if fragmented after the first few cell divisions , amniotes have huge regulative capacity . Dividing a chick blastoderm even just before primitive streak formation  into up to eight fragments can lead to formation of as many complete embryos  . In an isolated anterior half , a visible primitive streak  can be detected about 12 hr after cutting . This appears randomly from either the left or right area pellucida adjacent to the cut edge of the marginal zone  , preceded at least 6 hr earlier by expression of cVg1 in the right or left marginal zone  . Blocking cVg1 on one side of the marginal zone of an isolated anterior half will cause the axis to arise from the opposite side . A similar manipulation in the PMZ will cause a streak to arise from outside the MO-electroporated domain  . Thus , cVg1 expression in the marginal zone is both necessary and sufficient to initiate formation of a primitive streak . There was no information , however , about what positions cVg1 expression in the PMZ of normal embryos or in isolated fragments . This led us to undertake a screen for upstream regulators . We took two complementary approaches: a molecular screen , designed to identify genes co-expressed with cVg1 both in the normal PMZ and in the cVg1-expressing edge of the marginal zone in isolated anterior halves at the time when cVg1 first becomes detectable , and a bioinformatics-based approach , predicting and analysing putative enhancers of cVg1 situated on chromosome 28 . A particular difficulty of the molecular screen was that it is impossible to know , in a single embryo , which of the two edges of the isolated anterior half will express cVg1 . This required analysis of each individual fragment just after excising left and right edge explants , then pooling them appropriately according to whether they derived from the cVg1-expressing side or the opposite edge . This has the additional advantage of removing any intrinsic left–right differences that may exist in the embryo at this stage . Selecting genes that are co-expressed with cVg1 when this is first upregulated at one edge of an isolated fragment , and also co-expressed with cVg1 in the normal PMZ , turned out to be a powerful strategy to reduce the number of relevant genes , thereby avoiding the ‘cherry-picking’ approaches often associated with molecular screens . This combination of molecular screens and bioinformatic analysis converged towards a single strong candidate: the transcription factor Pitx2 . The regulatory role of Pitx2 on cVg1 expression was then confirmed by loss-of-function experiments showing that Pitx2 is required for cVg1 activation and axis formation both in normal development and during embryonic regulation , and that it binds directly to four non-coding regions around the cVg1 locus  , two of which  are sufficient to direct expression specifically to the PMZ and cVg1-expressing edge of an isolated anterior fragment . Moreover , mutation of any of the Pitx-binding sites in enhancers E3 and E5 abolishes the activity of these enhancers in the PMZ . These findings strongly implicate Pitx2 as a direct and essential regulator of cVg1 expression . Pitx transcription factors are characterised by possessing a Lysine residue at position 50 of the homeodomain , an unusual property shared with the vertebrate genes Goosecoid and OTX-1/2 and with the founder gene of the family , Drosophila Bicoid . In Drosophila , Bicoid is a critical specifier of ‘anterior’ identity and essential for setting up head–tail polarity of the early embryo . Although it is tempting to speculate that a Bicoid/Pitx system may have an ancient function in the specification of head–tail polarity , the Bicoid gene does not appear to have direct orthologues in species other than schizophoran flies  , so this may be either a coincidence or convergent evolution . The four key components that form part of this gene regulatory network initiating axis formation , Pitx2 , cVg1/GDF1 , Tbx6 , and Nodal , are also involved a little later in development  in specifying left–right asymmetry in different vertebrate classes  . Indeed , these are the main conserved components of the left–right pathway among different vertebrates . These observations raise the possibility that the left–right pathway may have evolved by co-opting a more ancient mechanism for initiating formation of the gastrular axis . This is supported by the finding that a Nodal/Pitx2 loop is involved in specifying both left–right asymmetry and mesendoderm formation  in the sea urchin , a non-vertebrate deuterostome  . Pitx2 , Vg1 , Nodal , and Tbx6 are also involved in early mesendoderm development in anamniotes , although Vg1 is maternal  . In the mouse , double mutants for Pitx1 and Pitx2 lead to early lethality  of the embryo  . Only a single embryo was ever recovered that had survived to E10–E12  . Expression of these transcription factors has to date only been studied in detail at later stages of mouse development  and it will therefore be interesting to see if they are indeed expressed as in the chick at pre-primitive streak stages . Certainly , the strong conservation of the active enhancers  near mouse and human GDF1 suggests that this is likely to be a conserved feature of birds and mammals , and despite the fact that the peculiar geometry of rodent embryos at these early stages has led to some differences in the processes leading to axis development  . Monozygotic twins do not seem to occur commonly in the mouse and it is possible that these very small , cup-shaped embryos do not survive to term if more than one primitive streak appears within a single blastocyst . Together , these findings suggest that the retention of a regulative mode of development at late stages by amniote embryos  evolved through novel uses of an ancient pathway , involved in both mesendoderm development and left–right asymmetry , but in slightly different ways . Our study also brings forward the time at which the earliest responses to cutting an embryo can be detected . First , we can now detect cVg1 expression at one edge of a cut anterior fragment 4–5 hr after cutting , about 2 hr earlier than the 6 hr reported previously  ; Pitx2 appears even earlier , 3 hr after cutting . But this also begs the question of what lies upstream of Pitx2 . The present finding that Pitx2 is upregulated locally just 3 hr after cutting an embryo suggests that its regulators may not be differentially expressed mRNAs , but other asymmetries . Our studies allow us to predict the Pitx2/cVg1  /Nodal pathway as a possible candidate to explain the obligate quadruplets of armadillos  and/or the high incidence of monozygotic and conjoined twins in certain human populations  . Fertile Brown Bovan Gold hens' eggs  were incubated for 1–16 hr to obtain stages X–XIII  and stage 4   . Embryo manipulation was performed in Tyrode's solution . Anterior halves were obtained by cutting embryos with a hair loop . Unlike previous studies  , here we did not use a strip of anterior area opaca to seal the cut edge . Embryos and fragments were set up in modified New culture  and incubated at 38°C as required . Whole mount in situ hybridisation was performed as described previously  . The probes used were: chick cVg1  , Brachyury  , and Pitx2  . Two microarray screens were performed with tissues collected from stages X–XII  . A first screen was performed with triplicates of 40 pieces of PMZ and AMZ , dissected and individually frozen from whole embryos  . A second screen was done with triplicates of 70 pieces of the left and right corners of the marginal zone , dissected and frozen individually from anterior embryo halves that had been cultured for 7 hr  . After dissection , whole embryos and anterior halves were fixed in 4% PFA for in situ hybridisation with cVg1 . In both screens , in situ hybridisation was carried out for an extended period to detect low cVg1 expression adjacent to the excised pieces and confirm the orientation of the embryo  ; the orientation was ambiguous or incorrect in about 10% of the embryos , and explants obtained from them were therefore not included . The remaining validated PMZ and AMZ samples , cVg1-like and non-cVg1-like samples were pooled in TRIzol reagent  . Each label was quality checked through all stages of amplification and preparation for hybridisation on Affymetrix 30K chicken microarrays . Microarray raw data were analysed using Bioconductor in R  . Differentially expressed genes were then identified using the Limma package in R  with a fold change threshold of 1 . This strategy identified 122 sequences  with putative cVg1-like expression  and 78 sequences  expressed in the cVg1-negative explants  . A selection of genes from the top up- and downregulated genes was verified by in situ hybridisation: ADMP , PITX2 , THPO , PKDCC , PMEPA , TBX6 , FGF8 , Ovoinhibitor , ELK3 , LITAF , PITX1 , CAMK1G , DENND5B , MLLT6 , Homer3 , SEMA5B , PIK3R1 , GALNTL1 , SH2D4A , GLI3 , PDLIM5 , VANGL1 , LEF1 , FGF18 , LOC768709 , CXCL14 , PLCB1 , ZBTB1 , MED15 , SPOCK3 , BASP1 , LRP2 , GABRB2 , PDGFA , Autotaxin , SALL1 , MAFA , ESRRG , FOXD2 , FSTL4 , MALT1 , OLFM3 , GNAZ and GRB10; when not already available , probes were generated from the chick EST collection  . Computational prediction of CTCF insulator elements was performed as previously described  . A PERL script  was used to scan chromosome 28  from the galGal4 build of the chicken genome for occurrences of CTCF-binding sites with stringent parameters  . Equivalent regions of human chromosome 19  and mouse chromosome 8  were also scanned for CTCF-binding sites with the same FDR parameter . The nearest conserved CTCF-binding sites harbouring the same set of genes both upstream and downstream of GDF3/GDF1 in all three species were then identified and these domains were defined as regions bounded by putative insulators . Enhancer prediction was carried out using the software package Discovery of Regulatory Elements in Vertebrates   , the vertebrate version of EDGI  . The maximal cluster length  was set at 3000 bp with a sequence conservation score cut-off of 2 . Transcription factor binding site analysis of these predicted enhancers was carried out using the matrix-scan algorithm from the RSAT workbench   . As a complementary approach , a modified methodology of Clover  was used to detect enhancers that shared order-independent transcription factor binding sites rather than DNA patterns . This approach uncovered two additional putative enhancers , E5 and E6 . Fluorescein-labelled MOs against Pitx2 , Pitx1 and a standard control-MO  were delivered to young embryos by electroporation as described  . Pitx2-MO was designed to target the translational start site:  . A splice blocking Pitx1-MO was designed to target the start of exon-2:  . The coding sequence of chicken Pitx2  was cloned into pCAβ-IRES-GFP to generate a Pitx2 expression construct . The expression of Pitx2 protein was confirmed by western blot with a Pitx2-antibody  . Candidate enhancers 1–6  were amplified from chick genomic DNA using the following primer pairs:  -forward  , reverse  ;  -forward  , reverse  ;  -forward  , reverse  ;  -forward  , reverse  ;  -forward  , reverse  ;  -forward  , reverse  . 3 µg of each enhancer construct were co-electroporated with pCAβ-RFP , DS-RedExpress  or pCAβ-IRES-GFP as appropriate . Mutations were introduced into each of the Pitx1- or Pitx2-binding sites of the four enhancers  that contained such sites , with base changes highlighted in red  . The PCR primers used for site-directed mutagenesis are shown in Table 6 . For Enh5 , site 1 refers to the 5′ Pitx2 , while site 2 is the 3′ Pitx2-binding site  . Site-directed mutagenesis was performed as described  . 023Table 5 . Construction of mutations introduced to destroy Pitx-binding sitesDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 023Enh PITX siteMutated basesE1 PITX2GCTGGTCATGACTTCTTE1 PITX1TGGTTTCGAGTTGAAAGE3 PITX2GGGTGTCATGAATGGCCE3 PITX1AGGGTTCGAGTAATGGCE5 PITX2 1TAAAATCCTGAAACTGCE5 PITX2 2AGAAATCATGAATAAATE6 PITX2TGTCTTCATGACTCCTCThe mutations  introduced into the sequences of Pitx-binding sites in enhancers E1 , E3 , E5 and E6 . 024Table 6 . Primers used for construction of mutations in Pitx-binding sitesDOI: http://dx . org/10 . 024Primer sequencePrimer nameaggggtttggttTCgaGttgaaagcgtgtacttctcacccattgaaactgccaggtctgtEnh1PitX1MutFctttcaaCtcGAaaccaaacccctcccatcacacacacaaactctactgcttcttcaaaccaEnh1PitX1MutRagggggctggTCatGacttcttgcaggtgccccaaaggcagggccaEnh1PitX2MutFaagaagtCatGAccagccccctacccgaccctgctgcacagggaatEnh1PitX2MutRggccattaCtcGAaccctgctccctctgccctggcagEnh3PitX2MutFctgccagggcagagggagcagggtTCgaGtaatggccEnh3PitX2MutRagtgcagtttCagGAttttactttatagtttttttattcctacttgccatgaaagtggagaacatEnh5PitX2MutFtaaaaTCctGaaactgcacttaacatagcgattacaaaacactcttggttagagtagcaacacaaEnh5PitX2MutRtgggctttcctatttattCatGAtttcttacagtagacaagaagattcacatttgtttgtgtttcatagctagagEnh5PitX22MutFtgtaagaaaTCatGaataaataggaaagcccaaatgttacaagcttcattgggcctccattgctggaagaaaagaEnh5PitX22MutRataacaaaggggaggagtCatGAagacattgattctaatttgttctacatttcagtttattagcaaagtgacaEnh6PitX2MutFaatcaatgtctTCatGactcctcccctttgttatttcattttatgtgctttctaattcatcttcaattaagaEnh6PitX2MutRThis table shows the primer combinations used to generate the mutations indicated in Table 5 . Micro ChIP experiments were performed with pools of 25 pieces of PMZ and their anterior counterparts  from whole pre-streak stage X–XI embryos . Immunoprecipitation was done with rabbit anti-H3K27ac  , mouse anti-PITX2  , antibodies and rabbit IgG  and mouse IgG  bound to magnetic Dynabeads  . The following primer pairs were used: enhancer1—forward primer1 E1F1  reverse primer1 E1R1 ( 5′- ggtagggttcacttcattagggatg -3′ , forward primer2 E1F5  reverse primer2 E1R5 ( 5′- caatgggtgagaagtacacgctttc-3′ ; enhancer2—forward primer1 E2F1  reverse primer1 E2R1 ( 5′-tgggaaattccgacctggaagcag-3′ , forward primer2 E2F3  reverse primer2 E2R3  ; enhancer 3—forward primer E3F2  reverse primer E3R2  ; enhancer 4—forward primer1 E4F1  reverse primer1 E4R1 ( 5′- atggagagacacagtcagccacga-3′ , forward primer2 E4F2  reverse primer2 E4R2  ; enhancer 5—forward primer E5F3  reverse primer E5R3  ; enhancer 6—forward primer E6F3  , reverse primer E6R3  ; Vg1 -0 . 5 ATG—forward primer Vg1F1  reverse primer Vg1R1  . 
Temporal experience of odor gradients is important in spatial orientation of animals . The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field . We found a significant temporal transformation between OSN and PN spike patterns , manifested by the PN output strongly signaling the OSN spike rate and its rate of change . A simple two-dimensional model admitting the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicted the PN output . When cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs , PNs primarily signal the acceleration and the rate of change of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers , thereby enabling animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor concentrations . Odor distribution in nature is intermittent and dynamic  , and animals have evolved the ability to detect and respond to temporal variation of odor stimuli  . Similarly , adult fruit flies exhibit robust odor-guided behaviors such as turning upwind in flight upon contact with an attractive odor plume  and staying within a specific odor zone  . Most of these studies employed a simple odor delivery system that generated step-pulse-like odor stimuli without directly monitoring the actual odor concentration levels . Two recent studies independently reported that Drosophila OSNs encode not only the odor concentration but also its rate of change as a function of time  . We tested OSNs and PNs with short plume-like odor stimuli in a variety of settings and analyzed the correlation structure of input/output signals in the odor-OSN-PN pathway . We also constructed a two-dimensional  linear–nonlinear  model of the OSN-to-PN transformation by inducing an ensemble of triangle-shaped OSN spike rates via a systematic design of olfactory stimuli . We employed a novel odor delivery system that can reliably produce various odor concentration waveforms and provide measurements of the odor concentration with a millisecond resolution on every experiment trial   . Various odor concentration profiles were designed and tested  , and the corresponding OSN and PN responses were measured in two separate assays sharing the same odor delivery system  . The observed odor concentrations were closely matched between the two assays  . The dynamics of OSN and PN responses differed significantly from their respective feedforward inputs , and all responses initiated within a few tens of milliseconds of the odor onset  . However , the exact functional transformation between OSNs and PNs could not be readily assessed due to the complex dynamics of OSN and PN signals . Dynamics of sample odor stimuli are significantly transformed along an odor-OSN-PN pathway . Activity of OSNs and PNs was recorded in two different assays , which share the same odor delivery system . A photoionization detector  provided real-time measurements of odor concentrations in every trial . Sample traces of OSN and PN responses to a triangle-shaped odor concentration profile . Sample OSN and PN responses to five distinct odor concentration waveforms . Odor concentration profiles . Each trace is an average of six interleaved trials , recorded in the OSN assay . Raster and peristimulus–time histogram  plots of the Or59b OSN response . Raster and PSTH plots of the postsynaptic DM4 PN response to the same panel of odor stimuli . Sample traces of 17 acetone odor concentration waveforms and their responses in Or59b OSNs and DM4 PNs . Each trace represents an average of 4–6 trials , and the odor concentration was measured in the OSN assay . Correlation structures of olfactory information representations in odor , OSN and PN signals . Three polynomial odor stimuli: a pulse , a ramp and a parabola . Blue and red lines are average traces , respectively , from the OSN and PN experiments . Or59b OSN response to the above stimuli  . PN response to the same set of stimuli  . OSNs and PNs mainly encode the amplitude and rate of change of their feedforward inputs , whereas PNs most strongly represent the acceleration and rate-of-change components of the odor input . The patterns of the dynamic odor encoding were preserved for different combinations of odorants and OSN-PN pairs . Outputs of an Or59b OSN and a DM4 PN in response to methyl butyrate polynomial odor inputs . Gray areas represent the standard deviation of the estimated OSN/PN output . Outputs of an Or7a OSN and a DL5 PN in response to butanal polynomial odor inputs . Gray areas represent the standard deviation of the estimated OSN/PN output . 006 We therefore designed a set of elementary odor concentration waveforms: a step , a ramp and a parabola  . Consistent with previous reports  , OSNs responded most strongly to polynomial waveforms when the odor concentration rose rapidly . For the ramp and parabola odor signals , OSN responses were the exact rate-of-change function of their input: a step output to a ramp input  and a ramp output to a parabola input  . This pattern of encoding was preserved for different combinations of odorants and OSN-PN pairs  . The correlation was strong between the OSN output and both odor concentration and its rate of change , but weak between the OSN output and the acceleration of odor concentration  . All PN responses transiently peaked at the time of the odor onset , and their peak times were on average advanced from the OSN peak times . Specifically , in response to ramp-shaped OSN signals , PNs exhibited a rapid step response  . To step-like OSN signals , PN showed a phasic onset response , followed by a tonic spiking pattern  . These input/output relationships are reminiscent of the rate-of-change encoding in the odor-to-OSN transformation , where the ramp and step odor signals were similarly transformed . From a modeling perspective , this observation predicted a strong correlation between the PN spike rate and the rate of change of the OSN spike rate . A correlation analysis between the PN output and three different input features—OSN spike rate , rate of change , and acceleration—confirmed this prediction  . Together , this supports the hypothesis that PN responses can be modeled as a function of the OSN spike rate and its rate of change , at least for the tested class of odor stimuli . We therefore propose a simple model of the OSN-to-PN transformation comprising two input blocks: the OSN spike rate and its rate of change , followed by a 2D nonlinearity that maps these inputs into the PN spike rate  . The validity of the model can be tested by assessing its ability to predict the PN response to new odor waveforms . In order to estimate the nonlinearity , we first designed OSN spike activity profiles that explore the hypothesized PN input space with an efficient sampling grid . A simple two-dimensional  model characterizes the OSN-to-PN transformation . Input/output traces used in modeling the OSN-to-PN transformation  . An ensemble of triangle-shaped OSN spike rates  were designed as a direct in vivo input to the PNs . These OSN spiking patterns were induced by an ensemble of parabola odor inputs  . Input axes are OSN spike rate and its rate of change , and the output is the PN spike rate . The samples were estimated from the OSN and PN spike trains with 25-ms sampling interval and depicted as a red dot in the input/output space . A simple 2D model of the OSN-to-PN transformation , as a 2D linear-nonlinear model . The 2D model was tested for a set of OSN spike rates to evaluate its predictive ability . Six OSN spike rates—five triangle-shaped signals and one step-pulse-shaped input—and their rate-of-change functions were projected to the surface . The predicted PN spike rate closely followed the magnitude and dynamics of the experimental PN spike rate , for six OSN spike rate inputs  . PN output is dependent on both OSN spike rate and its rate of change . The triangle-shaped OSN spike rate  , its rate of change  , and the corresponding PN spike rates  . At a fixed OSN spike rate  , the PN spike rate varies from 0 to 280 spike/s depending on the rate-of-change value of the OSN spike rate . At a fixed OSN spike rate ( blue line for 30 spike/s , red line for 60 spike/s , green line for 120 spike/s , as depicted in  ) , the PN spike rate is linearly related to the rate-of-change value of the OSN spike rate with half-wave rectification in the negative rate-of-change interval . The gain β of the PN response , with respect to the rate of change of the OSN output , decreases with increasing input amplitude . 008 How can we induce an ensemble of triangle signals at the OSN output ? We fine-tuned odor concentration signals , while observing the OSN spike rate , until the desired OSN spike rates were produced  . The odor concentration signals inferred from this method are an ensemble of parabolas with systematically varying peak times and amplitudes  . The 2D nonlinearity was estimated subsequently by running a ridge regression analysis on spike rate samples from the OSN and PN signals   . The estimated 2D nonlinearity showed a strong dependency on the rate-of-change of OSN spike rate  . When the nonlinearity was estimated for samples with a fixed odor concentration value , the PN spike rate rose almost linearly with respect to the rate of change  . However , the gain of the PN output with respect to the OSN rate of change decreased monotonically with concentration , suggesting that at least a 2D model is required to describe the OSN-to-PN transformation  . We tested the model by comparing the simulated model output with the experimental PN spike activity  . With step , ramp , and parabola odor inputs , the experimental outputs were closely matched by the model  . While the odor-evoked responses were well matched by the model , including peak times and amplitudes , the model output often overestimated the actual PN spike rate before and after the stimulus interval . In summary , the proposed simple 2D model provides a decent approximation of the OSN-to-PN transformation and corroborates the notion that PNs mainly encode OSN spike rate and its rate of change in a nonlinear fashion . Therefore , we reasoned that the computation of the first and second time derivatives  of odor concentrations by OSN and PNs , respectively , acts to advance peak times of olfactory stimuli . To investigate this idea with a larger set of odor stimuli , we designed a set of triangle-shaped odor waveforms with peak times varying uniformly between 0 . In response to the same panel of odor stimuli , PNs consistently produced peak output  at around 200 ms after the stimulus onset , regardless of the dynamics of the odor/OSN signals  . For the parabola-shaped odor stimuli  , the peak OSN and PN responses were similarly advanced in time relative to the odor and OSN peaks  but were more variable . The advancement of a peak time was previously reported for step-pulse odor stimuli  , and our work confirms this result for a larger set of dynamically varying odor stimuli . 8 triangle-shaped acetone concentration waveforms  and the corresponding OSN and PN responses . The peak times for odor , OSN , and PN signals . The advancement in peak times was observed in both the odor-to-OSN and OSN-to-PN transformations . The shape of the 2D nonlinearity and the relatively low prediction error of the model support the hypothesis that the PN spike rate is most strongly dependent on the rate of change of its feedforward OSN input . When combined with the dynamic sensory encoding by OSNs—encoding of odor concentration and its rate of change—PNs signal the rate of change and , most strongly , the acceleration of odor concentration signals to higher brain centers . One remarkable example of the ‘acceleration encoding’ by PNs is found in the OSN/PN responses to the parabolically rising odor input , where the onset is enormously amplified to create step-like responses in PNs  . Why do fruit flies compute acceleration of odor concentrations ? In this environment , the steepest local odor gradient can be directly linked to the location of the odor source , and therefore animals in such environments are expected to encode the rate of change of odor concentrations in order to detect the steepest gradient . In this regime , the local odor gradient within an odor plume would be less informative in determining the location of the odor source than the distribution of odor plumes over a macroscopic scale . Furthermore , the relative position of a flying animal and the distribution of odor plumes evolve rapidly over time . It is therefore crucial for flying insects to detect and respond to an encountered odor plume before the fly's position drifts relative to adjacent plumes . We showed that Drosophila's early olfactory system signals the acceleration of odor concentrations to higher brain centers . This encoding mechanism allows an animal to detect the odor onset at a very early phase  . It has also been shown that fruit flies can respond to the spatial difference of the odor concentration between two antennae in both walking and flight  . However , even with the lack of spatial sampling ability , fruit fly larvae can locate an odor source , based on the temporal sampling of odor gradients  . We built a precise and versatile odor delivery system  . In order to convert the PID output voltage into the odor concentration in parts per million  , we regularly  measured the output of the PID with a calibration odor  and estimated the general sensitivity of the PID , which gradually decays over time . The PID sensitivity ratio of actual odor to standard odor was measured in a separate experiment with a fully saturated odor vapor and used to calculate a scaling factor between the PID output  and the absolute odor concentration   . Female flies 2–5 days posteclosion were used for both OSN and PN recordings . For the correlation analysis and 2D model prediction , the rate of change and acceleration components of odor and OSN traces were estimated by a forward difference equation , with the difference time interval as the scaling factor; for example , dxdt=/Δ , where x represents either the odor concentration or the OSN response , and Δ denotes the time interval . The time interval was 50 ms for the odor rate of change , 100 ms for odor acceleration , the OSN rate of change and OSN acceleration . Cut-off frequencies of the low-pass filters were 20 Hz for the odor amplitude , 10 Hz for the odor rate of change , 4 Hz for the OSN spike rate , and 4 Hz for the OSN rate of change . 
The fertilization products are surrounded by the maternally derived seed coat , whose development prior to fertilization is blocked by epigenetic regulators belonging to the Polycomb Group  protein family . Here we show that fertilization of the central cell results in the production of auxin and most likely its export to the maternal tissues , which drives seed coat development by removing PcG function . We furthermore show that mutants for the MADS-box transcription factor AGL62 have an impaired transport of auxin from the endosperm to the integuments , which results in seed abortion . We propose that AGL62 regulates auxin transport from the endosperm to the integuments , leading to the removal of the PcG block on seed coat development . These two fertilization products are surrounded by the seed coat , a sporophytic tissue of purely maternal origin . While the embryo is the only component of the seed that will form the next generation , it contributes little to seed growth . Instead , the interplay between the endosperm and seed coat determines the final size of the seed . Impaired endosperm proliferation has a negative effect on seed coat development , as is the case in the Arabidopsis haiku or miniseed mutants  or in transgenic lines expressing diphtheria toxin A in the endosperm  . And , conversely , mutations that affect seed coat expansion limit endosperm growth , such as transparent testa glabra 2  , while mutants with increased integument cell proliferation like megaintegumenta/auxin responsive factor 2 , result in enlarged seeds with more abundant endosperm  . Furthermore , the absence of the endothelium integument layer results in seed abortion , highlighting the importance of the developing seed coat for the establishment of a viable seed  . Endosperm initiation in Arabidopsis is coupled to the production of auxin in the central cell following fertilization  ; however , the factor initiating seed coat development is yet to be described . Seed coat initiation is dependent on the fertilization of the female gametophyte , but mutants for sporophytically-acting Polycomb Group  proteins develop a seed coat without fertilization in a dosage-sensitive manner  . Therefore , the initiation of seed coat development prior to fertilization is inhibited by sporophytically active PRC2 complexes and this block is relieved following fertilization through a signal derived from the fertilization products  . Seed coat development is dependent on the development of the sexual endosperm  , strongly suggesting that the seed coat-initiation signal is generated in the fertilized central cell/endosperm . Here , we show that seed coat development requires production of auxin in the fertilized central cell/endosperm and most likely the transport of auxin to the ovule integuments in an AGL62-dependent manner . We demonstrate that application of auxin is sufficient to drive seed coat development and that AGL62 regulates the expression of P-GLYCOPROTEIN 10  , in the endosperm , which likely functions as an auxin transporter to the sporophytic tissues . Finally , we show that auxin is sufficient to remove the PRC2 block on seed coat development . Seed coat initiation is dependent on the fertilization of the central cell by one of the paternally-contributed sperm cells , but this requirement can be bypassed in mutants of sporophytic PRC2 components that initiate the autonomous development of the seed coat  . In order to identify the signaling pathways that could be involved in seed coat initiation , we generated transcriptome data from non-fertilized wild-type  ovules and vrn2/- emf2/+ ovules at four days after emasculation  , and WT seeds at two days after pollination  . In contrast to WT ovules , non-fertilized vrn2/- emf2/+ ovules initiate autonomous seed coat development  , correlating with the activation of genes involved in auxin and gibberellin  response or signaling that became also activated in fertilized seeds  . Significantly enriched biological processes for genes commonly upregulated in fertilized WT and autonomous vrn2 emf2/+ seeds , compared to unfertilized WT ovules  . Seed and ovule transcriptome data . vrn2/- emf2/+ ovules and seeds , and for the mRNAseq data of WT vs . agl62/+ seeds . In order to test whether this activation was specific to the seed coat we investigated the behavior of auxin and GA reporter lines before and after fertilization  . To monitor auxin signaling , we investigated expression of the DR5v2::VENUS reporter  before and after fertilization . We further substantiated these observations with the use of the R2D2 auxin sensor system  . Before fertilization there was a strong DII:VENUS expression in the integuments , indicating very low or absent auxin signaling  . Conversely , the auxin-insensitive mDII:Tdtomato remained stable in the seed coat , indicating a stable expression of the RPS5a promoter , that drives both reporter genes . These observations indicate a rapid accumulation of auxin in the sporophytic tissues following fertilization of the maternal gametes . Fertilization activates auxin and GA signaling in the seed coat . R2D2 auxin sensor before  and 16 hr after pollination   . Effect of GA treatments on GA and auxin reporter lines . Activity of the auxin reporters DR5v2  and R2D2  remains unchanged after GA3 treatment . Ovule size and cell measurements . Relative area of 1 DAP WT seeds compared to 2 DAE ovules . Integument cell number did not change following fertilization , indicating that seed coat growth is driven by cell expansion rather than cell division . Integument cell numbers in mutant and transgenic lines at 2 DAE . Before fertilization we observed a strong GFP signal in the integuments which quickly diminished after fertilization  , indicating an activation of GA signaling , similarly to what we observed with the auxin reporters . To test whether auxin and GA act in the same pathway during seed coat development , we treated unpollinated pistils of plants expressing the RGA reporter with the synthetic auxin 2 , 4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid  and observed a removal of the RGA protein , similarly to what happens after fertilization or application of gibberellic acid  . Conversely , the application of GA3 did not have an influence on the expression of the auxin reporters DR5v2 or R2D2  . These observations reveal that auxin acts upstream of GA during seed coat development . Seed coat growth initiating after fertilization is a process driven by cell elongation rather than cell division , since the integument cell number did not change after fertilization  . Given that both auxin and gibberellin signaling is active in the developing seed coat , and that both hormones are known for having a role in cell growth and expansion  , we tested whether exogenous application of either auxin or GA3 was sufficient to drive seed coat development . We treated unpollinated pistils with either GA3 or 2 , 4-D and investigated autonomous seed coat development after three days  . We used vanillin staining as a marker for the seed coat development , which stains the proanthocyanidins produced in the endothelium after fertilization  . Mock-treated ovules were either not or only weakly stained with vanillin , while treatments with GA3 or 2 , 4-D resulted in 30% to 40% of ovules showing strong or very strong staining . GA and auxin are sufficient to drive seed coat development . Scoring of vanillin staining of ovules after 2 , 4-D , GA3 and mock treatments , as categorized in  . Numbers on top indicate total ovules counted . Ovule area three days after 2 , 4-D , GA3 and mock treatments . Ten ovules were measured per treatment . The size is normalized to the mock-treated ovules . Scoring of vanillin staining in ovules of WT , auxin and GA-overexpressing lines , as categorized in  . Numbers on top indicate total ovules counted . Vanillin-stained WT  and BAN::GA3ox1  ovules at 5 DAE . Activity of the BAN promoter in unfertilized ovules . BAN::GFP reporter is expressed in the inner integument cells of unfertilized ovules . 009 We further tested whether over-production of either one of these hormones specifically in the integuments of unfertilized ovules would trigger seed coat development . We raised transgenic plants expressing a GA biosynthesis gene  under the control of the BANYULS  promoter , which is active in the innermost integument/seed coat layer   . We emasculated BAN::GA3ox1 transgenic plants and performed vanillin staining at 5 DAE to test for initiation of seed coat development . As with the GA3 treatments , we observed an increased number of ovules stained in the transgenic lines when compared to WT plants  . In order to test whether increased auxin production in the integuments triggers autonomous seed coat development , we analyzed the gain-of-function yuc6-2D mutant , in which the auxin biosynthesis gene YUCCA6  is ectopically expressed due to the insertion of a Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S  enhancer sequence in its promotor region  . We therefore tested whether increased auxin production in the integuments of yuc6-2D plants resulted in the autonomous development of the seed coat , as scored by vanillin staining . Indeed , up to 50% of yuc6-2D ovules stained with vanillin , while less than 5% of WT ovules were stained  . These observations reveal that both auxin and GA3 are sufficient to trigger seed coat development without fertilization . Based on our findings that ectopic auxin and GA3 are sufficient to trigger the seed coat development and that auxin acts upstream of GA , we hypothesized that auxin may be the post-fertilization signal that triggers seed coat development . This hypothesis is in agreement with our previous observations that auxin is produced in the endosperm after fertilization  . In order to test whether auxin produced in the endosperm is necessary for seed coat development , we analyzed mutants deficient either in auxin signaling  or auxin biosynthesis  . Nevertheless , those seeds did not differ in size compared to WT seeds at 3 DAP and were only slightly smaller compared to their WT counterparts at 5 DAP , indicating that seed coat development is not impaired  . We thus conclude that auxin signaling in the fertilization products  is not necessary to initiate seed coat development . In contrast , wei/tar mutants affected in auxin biosynthesis showed seeds aborting at different sizes  . 5% of seeds completely failed to develop a seed coat and another 20–30% of seeds did not reach full WT size  . No differences were observed in the integument cell number between the mutant and WT ovules  , indicating that cell expansion following fertilization is affected in the wei/tar mutant . These observations strongly support the idea that post-fertilization production of auxin in the fertilization products is necessary for the early stages of seed coat development in Arabidopsis , but that auxin signalling does not seem to be required for full seed expansion until later developmental stages . Auxin is necessary for seed coat development . Opened silique of an axr1 axl-1/+ mutant showing aborting white seeds  that undergo full seed coat development . Opened silique of a wei8 tar1 tar2-1/+ mutant showing seeds that do not develop a seed coat  and seeds aborting at an intermediate stage compared to WT  . Determination of final seed size in auxin biosynthesis and signaling mutants and WT . Numbers on top indicate total seeds counted . WT seed at 2 DAP , showing a developed seed coat . wei8 tar1 tar2-1 seed at 2 DAP that failed to develop seed coat . Seed size is affected in auxin mutants . Area of 2 DAE ovules  , 3 DAP  and 5 DAP  seeds was determined for WT , axr1/+ axl-1 auxin signalling mutant and wei8 tar1 tar2-1/+ and wei8 tar1 tar2-2/+ auxin biosynthesis mutants . 011 Previous work had revealed that the endosperm , rather than the embryo , is solely responsible for triggering the seed coat development in Arabidopsis  . Thus , our data showing that auxin biosynthesis after fertilization is necessary for seed coat development , strongly supports our hypothesis that auxin needs to be produced in the endosperm to initiate seed coat development . Additionally , we previously showed that seeds mutant for axr1 axl-1 have endosperm proliferation defects  . Our observations reported here that these seeds develop a seed coat similar to that of WT seeds indicates that the proliferation of the endosperm per se is not required for seed coat initiation . This is in line with previous observations that mutants with severe endosperm proliferation defects , such as the titan mutants , still develop a seed coat  . To test whether production of auxin in the central cell is sufficient to trigger seed coat development , we expressed the auxin biosynthesis genes TAA1 and YUC6 under control of the central cell and early endosperm specific promoter DD65  and investigated the autonomous seed coat development at 5 DAE . Indeed , DD65::TAA1; DD65::YUC6 expressing ovules initiated seed coat development , as evidenced by a significant increase in size  and the production of protoanthocyanidins  . Ovules expressing DD65::TAA1; DD65::YUC6 initiate central cell division in the absence of fertilization  . However , the autonomous central cell division in these ovules only occurs at 6 DAE , while at 5 DAE seed coat development did clearly initiate . This data reveal that seed coat development precedes replication of the central cell , further indicating that endosperm development per se is not required for the initiation of seed coat development . Auxin production in the central cell triggers seed coat development . Ovule development at 5 DAE:  WT and  DD65::TAA1; DD65::YUC6 . Vanillin-stained ovules of DD65::TAA1; DD65::YUC6 at 5 DAE . Numbers on top indicate total ovules counted . Auxin reporters in the DD65::TAA1 DD65::YUC6 transgenic lines . DR5v2  and R2D2  activity in WT  and auxin over-producing line  . 013 Our observations demonstrate that ectopic production of auxin in the central cell is sufficient to drive seed coat development without fertilization . Our data strongly suggest that production of auxin in the developing endosperm is likely to be the trigger for seed coat development . agl62 seeds abort early after fertilization  , correlating with early endosperm cellularization  and failure to develop a seed coat  . The agl62 mutant did not show defects in integument cell number , implying compromised cell expansion following fertilization  . To test whether the early cellularization of agl62 was the cause for the defects in seed coat development , we crossed plants mutant for agl62/+ with a mutant for HALLIMASCH  , whose seeds fail to undergo endosperm cellularization  . In agl62 seeds the endosperm cellularizes at around 3 DAP , but in double mutant agl62 hal seeds this early cellularization phenotype is reverted  . However , similarly to the single agl62 mutant , agl62 hal seeds do not develop a seed coat and remain small . We thus propose that early cellularization of agl62 endosperm is a consequence , rather than a cause of the failure to develop seed coat . Given that AGL62 is solely expressed in the endosperm  , we hypothesized whether this transcription factor could be involved in regulating the pathways driving seed coat development . Consistently , GA signaling was not activated in agl62 integuments , as evidenced by the maintained GFP signal of the RGA DELLA reporter  in agl62 seeds  . Importantly , also auxin signaling was impaired in agl62 integuments , which failed to express the DR5::VENUS reporter . Strikingly however , while no VENUS signal was observed in agl62 integuments , we could clearly observe VENUS expression in the endosperm of agl62 seeds  , contrasting the absence of VENUS activity in WT seeds . These results strongly suggest that in WT seeds , auxin is produced in the endosperm after fertilization and quickly exported into the integuments . However , in the absence of AGL62 , auxin export is impaired and it accumulates in the endosperm at sufficiently high levels to activate DR5 expression . agl62 seeds fail to develop a seed coat . Endosperm cellularization as determined by Feulgen staining in agl62  , agl62 hal  and hal  seeds at 3 DAP . Inlay in  shows cellularized endosperm  . Expression of RGA::GFP:RGA in agl62 mutant seeds at 1 DAP . See Figure 1 for expression of the same reporter in WT seeds . DR5::VENUS expression in WT  and agl62  seeds at 3 DAP . PGP10::GFP expression in ovules  and in WT  and agl62  seeds at 2 DAP . Seed abortion in agl62 expressing AGL62::PGP10 . Seed abortion rate of five independent T1 transgenic lines expressing AGL62::PGP10 in the agl62/+ mutant background . The full horizontal line indicates the expected seed abortion level in agl62/+  and the dashed line represents expected seed abortion in T1 individuals where the AGL62::PGP10 construct is heterozygous  . Seed abortion was scored at 3 DAP , in three manually dissected siliques per line . 015 Our observation that auxin is trapped in the endosperm of agl62 seeds suggests that AGL62 regulates the expression or activity of auxin transporters in the endosperm . We therefore investigated the transcriptome of agl62 seeds at 30 hr after manual pollination and searched for genes encoding putative auxin transporters that were downregulated in this mutant compared to WT seeds . We found that PGP10 , a gene coding for an ABCB-type transporter was significantly downregulated in agl62 seeds  . PGP-type transporters are active auxin transporters  , raising the possibility that lack of PGP10 expression could account for the accumulation of auxin in the endosperm of agl62 seeds . In order to test whether PGP10 was expressed in the endosperm , we developed a PGP10::GFP reporter and investigated its expression in ovules and seeds of Arabidopsis . Consistently , PGP10 was expressed before fertilization in the central cell and its expression was maintained in the endosperm after fertilization  . The expression of PGP10 required AGL62 function , as PGP10 expression was not detectable in agl62 seeds at 2 DAP  , in agreement with the agl62 transcriptome data . Nevertheless , the PGP10 expression in agl62 under control of the AGL62 promoter was not sufficient to induce seed coat development  , suggesting that additional factors are required to activate PGP10 function , similarly as previously reported for other PGPs  . Previous observations revealed that sporophytic PRC2s exert a block on seed coat development that is lifted following fertilization  . Lack of the core PRC2 subunits VRN2 and EMF2 results in a dosage-dependent autonomous seed coat development , as visualized by staining of protoanthocyanidins using vanillin  . Thus , lack of PRC2 function and ectopic auxin are sufficient to initiate seed coat development in the absence of fertilization; we therefore asked whether auxin and PRC2 act in the same pathway initiating seed coat development . No differences in integument cell number were observed in these mutants , compared to WT , implying that autonomous ovule growth is mediated by cell expansion  . By scoring protoanthocyanidin production as a proxy for seed coat formation we compared the number of ovules forming autonomous seed coat in this triple mutant to those formed in the yuc6-2d single mutant and the vrn2/- emf2/+ double mutant . Ovules of the triple mutant and the yuc6-2d single mutant initiated autonomous seed coat development at similar frequencies  , suggesting that auxin and PRC2 act in the same pathway . PRC2 and auxin work in the same pathway during seed coat development . Vanillin-stained WT ovule at 5 DAE  , WT seed at 1 DAP  and vrn2/+ emf2/+ autonomous seed at 5 DAE  . Percentage of vanillin-stained ovules per silique at 6 DAE in WT and mutant lines . DR5v2::VENUS activity in WT  and vrn2/+ emf2/+  unfertilized ovules at 5 DAE . See also Figure 1 for DR5v2::VENUS activity in fertilized seeds . R2D2 reporter activity in autonomous seeds of PRC2 mutant vrn2/+ emf2/+ at 5 DAE . RGA::GFP:RGA activity at 5 DAE in WT ovules  or autonomous seeds of mutants for sporophytic PRC2 components: vrn2/+ emf2/+  and swn/+ clf/+  . Relative expression of genes involved in GA biosynthesis  , GA catabolism  and GA signaling  between vrn2 emf2/+ and WT ovules . Data show signal log ratios between vrn2 emf2/+ and WT ovules at 4 DAE , as indicated in Table 1—source data 1 . Expression of the RGA reporter in unfertilized ovules . RGA::GFP:RGA activity at 2 DAE in WT  and swn/+ clf/+ ovules  . 018 Based on the results showing that auxin is the endosperm-derived seed coat initiation signal , it seems most likely that auxin acts upstream of PRC2 during seed coat development . That being the case , autonomous seed coat development in mutants for the PRC2 core components VRN2 and EMF2 should not coincide with the activation of auxin signaling in the integuments . To test this hypothesis , we crossed the DR5v2 and R2D2 auxin reporters into the vrn2 emf2 double mutant background . As predicted , despite that vrn2/+ emf2/+ ovules initiated seed coat development at 5 DAE , there was no detectable expression of DR5v2 , contrasting to its expression post-fertilization  . Similarly , we did not observe an efficient removal of the DII:VENUS signal from vrn2/- emf2/+ ovules , unlike what happens post-fertilization  . These observations strongly support the hypothesis that auxin acts upstream of the PRC2 complex , and might have a role in removing the PRC2-block on seed coat development . Before fertilization there was a strong expression of all three reporters in the integuments , which markedly decreased following fertilization  . These observations support the view that post-fertilization auxin transport to the integuments leads to the removal of PRC2 and LHP1 proteins . All the genes tested were strongly downregulated after fertilization  as well as after exogenous application of 2 , 4-D in unfertilized ovules  . PcG activity is reduced in the developing seed coat . Expression of MSI1:MSI1::GFP  , SWN:SWN::GFP  and LHP1:LHP1::GFP  reporters in 2 DAE ovules  , 1 DAP seeds  and 2 , 4-D treated ovules at 3 DAE  . Relative expression of sporophytic PRC2 genes during seed development , as determined by RT-qPCR . Expression of PcG reporters in unfertilized ovules . Expression of MSI1:MSI1::GFP  , SWN:SWN::GFP  and LHP1:LHP1::GFP  reporters at anthesis  and mock-treated ovules at 3 DAE  . Relative expression of sporophytic PRC2 genes in unfertilized ovules following auxin treatments , as determined by RT-qPCR . 020 Given that GA signalling is downstream of auxin during seed development  , we asked whether the seed coat growth in mutants for sporophytic PRC2s would coincide with the ectopic activation of GA signaling in the integuments , similarly to what happens following application of auxin . Indeed , the GA biosynthesis gene GA20ox2 was upregulated in vrn2/- emf2/+ ovules while the GA catabolism genes GA2ox6 and GA2ox2 were downregulated when compared to WT  . To further test this hypothesis , we crossed the GA reporter RGA::GFP:RGA into mutants deficient for either PRC2 components VRN2 and EMF2 or SWN and CLF , and analyzed GFP expression in unfertilized ovules . Indeed , when compared to WT ovules , the ovules mutant for vrn2/+ emf2/+ or swn/+ clf/+ had a strongly reduced GFP:RGA signal , particularly in the innermost layers of the integuments  This was observed both at 5 DAE , when the autonomous seeds were significantly larger than WT ovules , but also at 2 DAE , indicating that activation of GA signalling takes place shortly after anthesis  . We conclude that GA signaling is activated in the absence of fertilization , when PRC2 function is removed from the integuments . In this manuscript we reveal that auxin is the missing link connecting fertilization and seed coat development . As the maternal integuments do not take part in the fertilization process , the signal that coordinates the development of the fertilization products with the maternal integuments remained elusive  . Based on previous research it seemed likely that the signal is generated in the endosperm , as endosperm development is required to drive seed coat initiation in Arabidopsis  . It was furthermore known that the presence of the paternal genome is necessary for the seed coat to develop , as mutants for cdka;1 and fbl17 , in which one of the sperm cells fails to undergo karyogamy with the central cell , do not develop a seed coat  . These observations strongly suggest that the signal driving seed coat development should be dependent on genes that are paternally-expressed in the endosperm . Auxin biosynthesis following fertilization of the central cell is dependent on the paternally-expressed genes YUC10 and TAR1  , raising the hypothesis that auxin could be the trigger for seed coat initiation . In this manuscript we provide multiple lines of evidence supporting this hypothesis:  auxin rapidly accumulates in the integuments after fertilization ,  impaired auxin biosynthesis but not auxin signaling in the endosperm causes defects in seed coat development ,  ovules of transgenic lines producing auxin ectopically in the central cell initiate seed coat development without fertilization ,  failure of seed coat development in the agl62 mutant correlates with failure to export auxin . Collectively , our data strongly support the hypothesis that auxin generated in the fertilized central cell/endosperm is the trigger for seed coat formation . Impaired auxin signaling in the endosperm did not impair seed coat formation , strongly supporting the hypothesis that auxin is exported to the integuments , where it initiates downstream signaling events . We could show that the ABCB transporter PGP10 is expressed in the fertilized central cell and its expression depends on the type I MADS-box transcription factor AGL62 , suggesting that PGP10 may regulate the export of auxin from the endosperm to the integuments . PGPs are known to depend on additional proteins for their localization and function  , likely explaining our failure to restore seed coat development in agl62 by ectopically expressing PGP10 . It is furthermore possible that additional AGL62 targets are required for successful auxin export from the endosperm and are therefore lacking in the agl62 mutant . Post-fertilization auxin production was shown to lead to activation of GA biosynthesis in the ovules , which is then transported to the valves to promote silique growth  . Our observation that auxin produced in the central cell is sufficient to drive parthenocarpic growth of the silique couples the fertilization event to fruit development . We have previously shown that auxin drives endosperm development in Arabidopsis  . We now propose a dual role for post-fertilization auxin production , both in driving endosperm and seed coat development . Additionally , the agl62 mutant has defects both in seed coat development in fertilized ovules and endosperm development in autonomous seeds . This suggests that AGL62 , like auxin , is involved in mediating both endosperm and seed coat developmental pathways . While ectopic auxin production in the central cell was sufficient to initiate seed coat development , the autonomous seeds did not reach the final size of a fertilized seed and collapsed at around 6–7 DAE . This implies that auxin is sufficient to initiate seed coat development , but that additional signals are necessary to support its full expansion and prevent the degeneration of the ovule . It is therefore an attractive hypothesis that auxin is the initial paternally-derived signal that drives the integument-to-seed coat developmental transition , and that mechanical pressure from the syncytial endosperm sustains seed coat growth . This view is supported by observations showing that mutants affected in syncytial endosperm proliferation have smaller seeds when compared to WT plants  . Additionally , it cannot be ruled out that other signalling pathways contribute to sustain seed coat growth , such as small peptide-mediated signalling  Mutants in sporophytic PRC2 components develop seed coat autonomously , implying that the PRC2 imposes a block on seed coat development that has to be lifted upon fertilization  . Here , we demonstrate that ectopic auxin can bypass the PRC2 block on seed coat development , which leads to activation of GA signaling and production of protoanthocyanidins in the integuments . We propose that transport of auxin from the developing endosperm is required for the removal of PRC2 function in the integuments , allowing for the development of the seed coat by activation of GA signaling  . We further show that exogenous auxin is sufficient to remove PRC2 function from the ovule integuments . Our gene expression analysis revealed that sporophytic PRC2-coding genes are downregulated after fertilization , likely due to increased auxin signalling in the integuments . Model for the post-fertilization mechanism driving seed coat development . Before fertilization  sporophytic PRC2 represses seed coat developmental pathways . The fertilization of the central cell  results in the production of auxin that is exported to the integuments , lifting the PRC2 block on seed coat development and allowing for cell elongation and differentiation . However , this process is highly dependent on the activity of the transcription factor AGL62 , since agl62 seeds fail to export auxin from the endosperm . This leads to auxin accumulation and consequently , failure to develop a seed coat  . We propose that AGL62 activity is important for the expression , and eventually for the activity , of endosperm-specific auxin-exporters . 021 In conclusion , we have discovered that auxin produced in the fertilized central cell is required to induce seed coat formation after fertilization and most likely acts as mobile signal linking fertilization with the differentiation of the surrounding sporophytic tissues . Seeds were sterilized in 5% commercial bleach and 0 . Unfertilized ovules and young seeds were dissected from the siliques at 4 DAE and 2 DAP , respectively , collected in RNAlater  and ground frozen in a Silamat S5 for 3 times 7 s . The genes used in the analysis were selected by overlapping the list of significantly upregulated genes in 2 DAP seeds and in vrn2 emf2 ovules . For the transcriptome analysis of agl62 seeds , we made use of homozygous agl62 mutant plants that arise at low frequency and that form small amounts of viable agl62/- seeds . agl62 plants were emasculated 1–2 days prior to anthesis , hand-pollinated and seeds were harvested 30 hr after pollination . 6 were selected for the transcriptome analysis of vrn2/- emf2/+ and with SLR<−1 for the analysis of agl62 . The ovules/seeds were observed under differential interference contrast  optics using a Zeiss Axioplan or Axioscope A1 microscopes  . The vanillin staining was done on 5 DAE ovules in 1%  vanillin  in 6 N HCl . For fluorescence analysis seeds were mounted in 7% glucose . Ovule size and cell number measurements  were performed through confocal imaging of PI stained ovules . For each condition , the area of 10 ovules was measured . Average ovule area for each condition was normalized to the average area of mock treated ovules . The determination of integument cell number in all lines was done for the outer layer of the inner integument at 2 DAE and 10 ovules were analyzed per line . Ovule and seed area measurements for WT and auxin mutants  were performed through seed clearing  and measured using ImageJ software   . An average of 50 ovules/seeds was measured for each line per time-point . Ovules/seeds of 25 emasculated or hand-pollinated WT siliques were harvested at 2DAE , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 DAP in 20 μL of RNAlater solution  and ground for 2 min using a TissueLyser II  . 
The interaction between a bacteriophage and its host is mediated by the phage's receptor binding protein  . Despite its fundamental role in governing phage activity and host range , molecular rules of RBP function remain a mystery . Here , we systematically dissect the functional role of every residue in the tip domain of T7 phage RBP  by developing a high-throughput , locus-specific , phage engineering method . Substitution patterns showed host-specific differences in position and physicochemical properties of mutations , revealing molecular adaptation to individual hosts . We discovered gain-of-function variants against resistant hosts and host-constricting variants that eliminated certain hosts . Our approach presents a generalized framework for characterizing sequence–function relationships in many phage–bacterial systems . Interaction of phages with their bacterial receptors is a key determinant of their host range and virulence  . This interaction is primarily mediated by the receptor binding proteins  of the phage  . Phages exhibit high functional plasticity through genetic alterations to RBPs and by natural and laboratory-guided evolution , which can modulate activity and host range to different hosts and environments  . In essence , survivability of a phage is intimately linked to the adaptability of its RBP . In summary , despite the extraordinary functional potential of phage RBPs , how systematic changes to their sequence shape the overall functional landscape of a phage remains unknown . Here , we carried out DMS , a high-throughput experimental technique , of the tip domain of the T7 phage RBP  to uncover molecular determinants of activity and host range . The tip domain is the distal region of the tail fiber that makes primary contact with the host receptor  . We developed ORACLE  , a high-throughput , locus-specific , phage genome engineering method to create a large , unbiased library of phage variants at a targeted gene locus . Using ORACLE , we systematically and comprehensively mutated the tip domain by making all single amino acid substitutions at every site  and quantified the functional role of all variants on multiple bacterial hosts . We discovered T7 variants with far greater virulence than wildtype T7 , demonstrating that even those natural phages that are well adapted to a host can be engineered for higher efficacy . However , many variants highly adapted to one host performed poorly on others , underscoring a tradeoff between activity and host range . This functional screening highlights ideal regions of the tip domain for engineering host range . Furthermore , we demonstrated the functional potential of RBPs by discovering gain-of-function variants against resistant hosts and host-constriction variants that selectively eliminate specific hosts . ORACLE provides a generalized framework to describe sequence–function relationships in phages to elucidate the molecular basis of phages , the most abundant life form on earth . ORACLE is a high-throughput precision phage genome engineering technology designed to create a large , unbiased library of phage variants to investigate sequence–function relationships in phages . First , phage variants are created during the natural infection cycle of the phage , which eliminates a common bottleneck from transforming DNA libraries . By recombining a donor cassette containing prespecified variants to a targeted site on the phage genome , ORACLE allows sequence programmability and generalizability to phages with transformable bacterial hosts capable of maintaining a plasmid library . Second , ORACLE minimizes library bias that can rapidly arise due to fitness advantage or deficiency of any variant on the propagating host that may then be amplified due to exponential phage growth . Minimizing bias is critical because variants that perform poorly on a propagating host but well on targeted hosts may disappear during propagation . The development of this technology was necessary to overcome challenges with existing engineering approaches for creating a large , unbiased phage library . Direct transformation of phage libraries , while ideal for creating one or small groups of synthetic phages , will not work because phage genomes are typically too large for library transformation  . Homologous recombination has low , variable recombination rates and high levels of wildtype phage are retained , which mask library members  . Libraries of lysogenic phages could potentially be made using conventional bacterial genome engineering tools as the phage integrates into the host genome . However , this approach is not applicable to obligate lytic phages . Our desire to develop ORACLE for obligate lytic phages is motivated by their mandated use for phage therapy . Any phage , including lysogenic phages , with a sequenced genome and a transformable host that can maintain a plasmid library should be amenable to ORACLE . ORACLE is carried out in four steps:  making acceptor phage ,  inserting gene variants through recombination ,  accumulating recombined phages , and  expressing the library for selection  . An ‘acceptor phage’ is a synthetic phage genome where the gene of interest  is replaced with a fixed sequence flanked by Cre recombinase sites to serve as a landing site for inserting variants  . We created T7 acceptor phages by assembling PCR fragments of the phage genome in yeast   . T7 acceptor phages lacking a wildtype tail fiber gene cannot plaque on E . Furthermore , the T7 acceptor phages have no plaquing deficiency relative to wildtype when the tail fiber gene is provided from a helper plasmid  . Thus , the tail fiber gene is decoupled from the rest of the phage genome for interrogation of function . Next , phage variants are generated within the host during the infection cycle by Optimized Recombination by inserting tail fiber variants from a donor plasmid into the landing sites in the acceptor phage using site-specific recombination . To minimize biasing of variants during propagation , a helper plasmid constitutively provides the wildtype tail fiber in trans such that all progeny phages can amplify comparably regardless of the fitness benefit or deficient of any variant . At this stage , we typically have approximately 1 recombined phage among 1000 acceptor phages  . To enrich recombined phages in this pool , we passage all progeny phages on E . coli expressing Cas9 and a gRNA targeting the fixed sequence flanked by recombinase sites we introduced into the acceptor phage . As a result , only unrecombined phages will be inhibited while recombined phages with tail fiber variants are Accumulated without bias . The Cas9-gRNA system successfully inhibits acceptor phages but has no effect on plaquing of untargeted phages  . Recombined phages were highly enriched by over one thousandfold in the phage population when an optimized gRNA targeting the fixed sequence was used , whereas a randomized control gRNA yielded no enrichment of recombined phages  . In the final step , phages are propagated on E . In this Library Expression , propagation on this host allows for full expression of the library variant – this is the first time during library creation that the variant is fully expressed on the phage particle . We sequenced the distribution of the library of tail fiber variants integrated on the phage genome after ORACLE . We compared this distribution to the distribution of variants on the recombination plasmid library to evaluate how effective ORACLE was at integrating variants and preventing bias during library creation . The post-ORACLE phages were mildly skewed toward more abundant members but remained generally evenly distributed and comparable to the distribution of variants in the input donor plasmid library , retaining 99 . Comparison of variant libraries with and without DNAse treatment was well correlated  , indicating no unencapsidated phage genomes influenced library distribution  . In summary , ORACLE is a generalizable tool for creating large , unbiased variant libraries of obligate lytic phages . These phage variants , including those that have a fitness deficiency on the host used to create the library , can all be characterized in a single selection experiment by deep sequencing phage populations before and after selection in a host . coli . The tip domain is likely the very first region of the tail fiber to interact with host LPS and position the phage for successful , irreversible binding with the host  . The tip domain is a major determinant of host range and activity and is often naturally exchanged between phages to readily adapt to new hosts  . Even single amino acid substitutions to this domain are sufficient to alter host range between E . Due to its critical functional role , we chose the tip domain to comprehensively characterize phage activity and host range by DMS . coli hosts: B strain derivative BL21 , K-12 derivative BW25113 , and DH10B derivative 10G . Selection on each host gave excellent correlation across biological triplicates  . We compared the activities of phage variants across hosts to assess their fitness and evolutionary adaptation to each host . Between the three hosts , T7 variants appeared most and least adapted to BW25113 and 10G , respectively , as evidenced by the fraction of depleted variants  after selection on each host   . Examining enriched variants on each host  provides compelling evidence of the tradeoff between activity and host range  . The top ranked variants on each host were remarkably distinct from those on other hosts  . Hierarchical clustering of FN across all three hosts revealed grouping of similar variants that performed better selectively on some hosts but not others  . No variant performed exceptionally well on all hosts  ; however , 406 variants were tolerated on all three hosts  . Thus , specialization toward a host comes at the cost of sacrificing breadth , mirroring observations made of natural phage populations  . We investigated the global physicochemical properties and topological preferences of substitutions after selection on each host  . This provides a molecular explanation as to why high-scoring substitutions on one host fare poorly on others  . This suggests directionality to phage–bacterial interactions and orientational bias of the tip domain with respect to the bacterial surface . Several key lessons emerged from these host screens . Next , we sought to elucidate features of each residue unique to each host or common across all hosts . There were over 30 residues with contrasting substitution patterns between different hosts , revealing fascinating features of receptor recognition for T7  . N501 and R542 are located on exterior loops oriented away from the phage and toward the receptor  . On 10G and BL21 , only positively charged residues  were tolerated at residues 501 and 542 , while in contrast many more substitutions were tolerated at both residues on BW25113 . The substitution profiles of G479 and D540 are loosely the inverse of N501 and R542 as many substitutions are tolerated on BL21 and 10G , but very few are tolerated on BW25113  . We hypothesize that D540 is critical for host recognition on BW25113 . This hypothesis is further supported by enrichment of adjacent S541D on BW25113  , while this substitution is depleted on 10G and BL21  . D520 displays a third variation in substitution patterns where substitutions are generally tolerated on 10G and BW25113 , but not tolerated on BL21  . Another stark contrast can be drawn at adjacent S519 , where no substitutions are tolerated in BL21 or 10G but several substitutions are enriched on BW25113 , indicating that substitutions can improve receptor binding on one host while reducing function on another host . Overall , these host-specific substitution patterns reveal a nuanced relationship between the tip domain composition and receptor preferences . We classified every residue as ‘intolerant’ , ‘tolerant’ , or ‘functional’ based on aggregated FN scores of all substitutions across all three hosts at every residue . Residues where the majority of substitutions were depleted were considered intolerant to substitution , while residues where at least a third of substitutions were depleted in one host and tolerated or enriched in another host were considered functional; the remaining positions were considered tolerant  . Overall , these results paint a complex enrichment profile for each host with some broad trends but subtle host-specific effects . The tail fiber is considered a reservoir of gain-of-function variants due to its principal role in determining fitness of a phage through host adsorption  . We hypothesized that novel gain-of-function variants against a resistant host could be discovered by subjecting our tail fiber variant library to selection on a resistant host . To identify a resistant host , we focused on host genes rfaG and rfaD involved in the biosynthesis of surface LPS , which is a known receptor for T7 in E . coli  . We challenged the library of T7 variants against E . coli deletion strains BW25113ΔrfaG and BW25113ΔrfaD through pooled selection and deep sequencing as before  and determined an FN score for each substitution on both strains  . Independent replicates showed good correlation for BW25113ΔrfaG  but only adequate correlation for BW25113ΔrfaD   . This is reflected in the significantly lower functional score of wildtype T7 on BW25113ΔrfaG and BW25113ΔrfaD  in comparison to BW25113   . The number of enriched variants outperforming wildtype T7  on the deletion strains  was over three times higher than BW25113  but comparable to 10G   . Of the 78 variants with FN ≥ 2 on either deletion strain , 45 variants had FN ≥ 2 on both strains , indicating that variants that performed well on one strain typically performed well on the other strain . Nonetheless , hydrophilic substitutions were more strongly enriched on BW25113ΔrfaG  , but not as significantly on BW25113ΔrfaD  , suggesting subtle differences in surface chemical properties of deletion strains leading to host-specific enrichments  . We validated the results of the pooled selection experiment by clonally testing the ability of phage variants with high FN  to plaque on the deletion strains based on a standard efficiency of plating  assay . D540S was particularly noteworthy as it performed better on the deletion strain BW25113ΔrfaG over wildtype BW25113 by 1–2 orders of magnitude . Many truncated variants performed well , especially on BW25113ΔrfaG , which included some with FN ≥ 10  . These truncated phages , detectable here only using deep sequencing , may demonstrate how obligate lytic phages could become less active in a bacterial population , slowly replicating alongside their bacterial hosts , requiring only a single mutation to become fully active again . These phages are not artifacts from library creation as some ability to replicate is required to produce detectable concentrations of each phage . We concluded that these are viable phage variants albeit with a much slower infection cycle , resulting in their inability to form visible plaques . Phage therapy is emerging as a promising solution to the antibiotic resistance crisis . Despite notable exceptions , in general development of effective phage-based therapeutics is hindered by onset of bacterial resistance , resulting in low phage susceptibility . Although initial application of phages in a laboratory setting may reduce bacterial levels , the residual bacterial load remains high , causing bacteria to quickly recover after phage application  . A high ratio of phage to bacteria  may productively kill bacteria in a laboratory setting by overwhelming a host with many phages  . However , ensuring an overwhelming amount of phages in a clinical setting is not always feasible  . Engineering highly active phages that overcome bacterial insensitivity and can therefore productively eliminate bacterial populations at low MOI in a laboratory setting would greatly enhance phage-based therapeutics . Although T7 can infect this UTI strain , insensitivity arises rapidly , a phenomenon all too common with the use of natural phages . We clonally characterized three variants  isolated from plaques . Next , we compared the effect of phage MOI  on the lysing activity of N501H and wildtype T7  . At all MOIs , wildtype phages lysed UTI473 significantly more slowly compared to N501H phages  . Between an MOI of 100 to 1 , application of both N501H and wildtype phage resulted in similar bacterial insensitivity . However , between an MOI of 10−1 and 10−5 , application of N501H phage reduced insensitivity over a 10 hr window , while application of wildtype phages resulted in rapid onset of insensitive bacteria . We postulate that at high MOI wildtype T7 simply overwhelms the host before insensitivity arises , while at lower MOI insensitivity can emerge and only variants adapted to the host can effectively kill the host . These results indicate that ORACLE can generate phage variants superior to wildtype phage that could then become starting points for further engineering therapeutic phages . Most phages are specialists that selectively target a narrow range of hosts but are unable to productively infect other closely related hosts  . We wanted to assess differences in the host range of individual variants on 10G , BL21 , and BW25113 and identify variants with constricted host ranges . Ideally , host specificities can be determined by subjecting a co-culture of all three hosts to the phage library . Instead , we sought to estimate specificities by comparing FN of a phage variant on all three hosts . Although FN compares activity of variants within a host , it could nonetheless be a useful proxy for estimating specificities across hosts . For instance , a phage variant with high FN on BL21 but completely depleted on BW25113 is more likely to specifically lyse BL21 than BW25113 in a co-culture experiment . Based on this rationale , we considered different metrics of comparison of FN and settled on difference in FN of a variant with reduced weight for enrichment  between any two hosts as an approximate measure of host preference . To assess if variants preferred one host over another , we computed FD for all three pairwise combinations and plotted functional substitutions as points on or above/below a ‘neutral’ line  . Variants above the line favor lysis of the noted host , and vice versa for variants below the line . We identified 118 out of 1660 variants as good candidates for constricting host range  . Of the 118 variants , 53 variants favor BW25113 over BL21 and 98 variants favor BW25113 over 10G in pairwise comparisons  . To validate our analysis , we clonally tested variant R542Q , which had a greater preference for BW25113 than BL21 or 10G  , and variant D540S , which had a greater preference for BL21 and 10G than BW25113  . In contrast , D540S showed a significant approximately hundredfold decrease in the ability to plaque on BW25113 compared to BL21 and 10G  , confirming the host constriction properties of these variants . In summary , pairwise comparison is a powerful tool to map substitutions that constrict host range and can be leveraged to tailor engineered phages for targeted hosts . In this study , we used ORACLE to create a large , unbiased library of T7 phage variants to comprehensively characterize the mutational landscape of the tip domain of the tail fiber . Cross-comparison between different hosts and selection on resistant hosts allowed us to map key substitutions , leading to host discrimination and gain of function . The functional landscape on each host is unique , reflecting both different molecular preferences of adsorption and the fitness of wildtype T7 on these hosts . For instance , hydrophilic substitutions were enriched in 10G while hydrophobic substitutions were enriched in BW25113 . Notably , substitutions on 10G  mirrored substitutions that recovered function on BW25113 mutants with truncated LPS , which shows convergence of selection . Comparison of these functional profiles precisely reveals the regions that are ideal engineering targets for customizing host range and activity and identifies intolerant residues that should be avoided when engineering synthetic phages . The truncated variants are likely not experimental artifacts as some ability to replicate is required to survive multiple rounds of selection on the host . Since plaque formation is a complex process , inability to plaque may not imply a functionally incompetent phage . ORACLE is designed as a foundational technology to elucidate sequence–function relationships in phage genes . Together , these will provide a comprehensive view of the molecular determinants of the structure , function , and evolution of a phage . Once the phage variants are created , scaling up ORACLE to investigate potentially tens of hosts merely scales up sequencing volume , not experimental complexity . Such a large-scale study will lead to a detailed molecular understanding and adaptability of phage bacterial interactions . Any phage with a sequenced genome and a transformable host capable of maintaining a plasmid library should be amenable to ORACLE because the phage variants are created during the natural infection cycle . This approach can be leveraged to tune activity for known phages with high activity , such as T7 , or to identify engineering targets that dramatically increase activity for newly isolated natural phages . By enabling sequence programmability , we envision ORACLE as a powerful tool to discover new phage ‘parts’ from metagenomic sequences . coli BW25113 , BW25113ΔrfaD , and BW25113ΔrfaG were obtained from Doug Weibel  and are derived from the Keio collection  . All bacterial hosts are grown in and plated on Lb media  , and Lb media was used for all experimentation . Bacterial hosts were streaked on appropriate Lb plates and stored at 4°C . coli BL21 after initial receipt from ATCC and then as described on various hosts in methods . All phage experiments were performed using Lb and culture conditions as described for bacterial hosts . Phages were stored in Lb at 4°C . SOC  was used to recover host and phages after transformation . PCR reactions using phage as template use 1 μl of undiluted or 1:10 diluted phage stock , genomic extraction was unnecessary . There is a single-nucleotide deletion in the promoter that has no effect on plaque recovery for phages that require gp17 to plaque . This plasmid was used in recombination assays as it allows for recombination of wildtype gp17 and is used as template to generate the DMS variant library . The DMS variant library is referred to as pHRec1-Lib and is used during optimized recombination in ORACLE . Phage lysate was purified by centrifuging phage lysate at 16 g , then filtering supernatant through a 0 . To establish titer , phage samples were typically serially diluted  in Lb to a 10−8 dilution for preliminary titering by spot assay . 5 μl of each dilution of phage sample was spotted in series on the plate . After a preliminary titer was established , phage samples were serially diluted in triplicate for EOP assays . To perform the whole plate EOP assay , 250 μl of bacterial host in stationary or exponential phase was mixed with between 5 and 50 μl of phages from a relevant dilution targeted to obtain 50 plaque-forming units  after overnight incubation . The phage and host mixture was briefly vortexed , briefly centrifuged , then added to 3 . PFUs were typically counted at 4–6 hr and after overnight incubation  , and the total overnight PFU count used to establish titer of the phage sample . This was repeated in triplicate for each phage sample on each relevant host to establish phage titer . EOP was determined using a reference host , typically E . EOP values were generated for each of the three dilutions by taking the phage titer on the test host divided by the phage titer on the reference host , and this value was subsequently log10 transformed . MOI was calculated by dividing phage titer by bacterial concentration . MOI for the T7 variant library after the variant gene is expressed was estimated by titering on 10G with pHT7Helper1 . Limit of detection  for T7 acceptor phages  and T7 lacking a tail fiber  was established based on the ability of these phages to clear a bacterial lawn . These phages are unable to plaque on host lacking pHT7Helper1 , but phages do express a tail fiber due to being propagated on host with pHT7Helper1 . Functionally this allows these phages to complete one infection cycle and kill one host but does not allow the creation of plaque-viable progeny phages if that host does not also contain pHT7Helper1 . As expected , this effect occurs at different concentrations of phages for exponential or stationary host due to different host concentration at those stages of growth . Growth time courses for UTI473  and OD600were performed using a Synergy HTX Multi-Mode 96-well plate reader , using 140 μl of host and 10 μl of relevant phage titers . Phages were applied after an hour of incubation in the plate reader . To establish recombination rate  , we passaged T7 acceptor phages on 5 ml exponential phase E . pHRec1 was used because the recombined gp17 tail fiber is wildtype , ensuring every recombined phage is plaque-capable  . We sought to evaluate recombination rate after only one passage through the host to avoid misinterpretation of results in case recombined phages had different fitness than unrecombined phages . We used an MOI of 10 and allowed passage for 30 min , sufficient time for one wildtype phage passage , after which we halted any remaining reactions by adding 200 μl of chloroform and lysing the remaining bacterial host . Phages were then purified to acquire the final phage population . We established the phage population titer on 10G and 10G with pHT7Helper1 . Both acceptor phages and recombined phages are capable of plaquing on 10G with pHT7Helper1 , and this phage titer is used to count the total phage population . Only recombined phages are capable of plaquing on 10G , and this titer is used to count recombined phages . Recombination rate was established as the fraction titer of recombined phages divided by recombined phages . Plasmids concentration was determined by nanodrop and pools were then combined at an equimolar ratio to create the final phage variant pool , denoted as pHRec1-Lib . This host , E . coli 10G with pHT7Helper1 and pHRec1-Lib , was the host used for Optimized Recombination during ORACLE . Acceptor phages were assembled using YAC rebooting  , which requires yeast transformation of relevant DNA segments , created as follows . Wildtype T7 segments were made by PCR using wildtype T7 as template . Our inclusion of the 3′ ‘pad’ region corrected this problem and facilitated acceptor phage detection by deep sequencing . This culture was incubated until lysis , after which phages were purified to create the acceptor phage stock . Recombination was performed by adding T7 acceptor phages  to 15 ml exponential phase 10G with pHT7Helper1 and pHRec1-Lib  , split across three 5 ml cultures . This phage population constitutes the initial recombined phage population and contained an estimated 2 × 107 variants/ml in a total phage population of ~2 × 1010 PFU/ml . The remainder of the phages are acceptor phages . 2 of recombined phages  to 5 ml of stationary phase E . Cultures are incubated until lysis  , then phages are purified . This MOI was chosen to target 1% of acceptor phages remaining in the final population as an internal control – the remainder of the phage population is accumulated variant phages . Method note: During ORACLE , the library gene is not actively repressed and some fraction of progeny phages are likely assembled with the variant gene or contain chimeric tail fibers with both proteins . Cultures are incubated for 30 min , then 200 μl chloroform is added to the culture to lyse any remaining cells and phages are purified . This constitutes the final phage variant library with full expression of the variant gp17 tail fibers . This phage population is directly sequenced to establish the pre-selection library population . Method note: This MOI and culture conditions are chosen to prevent phages from undergoing more than one replication cycle . Additional replication cycles would result in skew toward variants that grow better on the host used for expression . At an MOI of 1 , progeny from the first replication cycle already comprise the majority of the possible concentration of phages for T7 . First , the importance of retaining variants that do not grow well on the host used to create the library cannot be overstated . These variants are critical for mapping functional regions . Second , due to possible depletion and skew , it is critical to assay library distribution after insertion and expression of the variants in the phage instead of , for example , assaying distribution in plasmid before phage insertion . The T7 variant library was added to 5 ml of exponential host at an MOI of ~10−2 , and the culture was allowed to fully lyse  . Phage lysate was purified and then the titer established for the host the phage was being selected on . This process was then repeated using the selected phage lysate . An MOI of 10−2 was chosen to allow phages that grow slower a chance to replicate . For reference under these conditions , we expect wildtype to complete four infection cycles on a susceptible host . Phage lysate from the second selection was retained and used as template for deep sequencing to establish the post-selection phage population . The entire process was repeated in biological triplicate for each host . Single-infection cycle results cited in Figure 4—figure supplement 4 and Figure 4—source data 1 and 2 were performed on BW25113ΔrfaG and BW25113ΔrfaD using an MOI of ~1 , then waiting for the culture to fully lyse , after which phage lysate was purified and sequenced directly . Method note: The number of infection cycles should be carefully considered due to the effect of multiple exponential replication events on the phage population . We used deep sequencing to evaluate phage populations . Constant regions are also installed in the fixed region of the acceptor phages for the same-size amplicon , so acceptor phages can also be detected . Undiluted phages are used as template . Each phage population was sampled at least twice using separate internal barcodes , and no PCR reactions were pooled . Wildtype , acceptor phages , and each variant were then counted in the deep sequencing output . Of the 1660 variants , 3  fell below our LOD in the variant pool before selection . To compare variant performance across hosts , we normalized functional score  to wildtype , where FN=x¯Variant%Post−PassageVariant%Pre−Passage/WT%Post−PassageWT%Pre−Passage . To define variant behavior on E . coli 10G , BL21 , and BW25113 , we considered variants depleted if FN was below 0 . 1  , tolerated if between 0 . For BW25113ΔrfaD and BW25113ΔrfaG , we further defined significantly enriched variants as performing at least 10 times better  than wildtype because wildtype does not grow effectively on these strains  . We compared variant FN across 10G , BL21 , and BW25113 to further characterize each variant and find functional variants  . We sought to identify variants that had meaningfully different performance on different hosts , which would be strong evidence that either the wildtype residue or the variant substitution was important in a host-specific context . In addition to providing direct insight intro structure–function relationships , such substitutions or positions are ideal engineering targets for altering host range or increasing activity in engineered phages . We considered substitutions that were depleted  on all three hosts to be intolerant , while substitutions that were tolerated or enriched  in all three hosts to be generally tolerated . Substitutions that were depleted on one host but tolerated or enriched on another were considered functional . We reasoned that for the purposes of finding host constriction mutants the extent of enrichment for a substitution is less relevant than if that substitution did poorly on another host . Put another way , it does not matter if a substitution is tolerated or enriched so long as it is depleted on a different host . coli BW25113 , while G479E has an FN of 1 . coli BW25113 . For host constriction , both positions should be scored highly as the mutations can be tolerated or enriched in one host but are depleted in another . coli BW25113 . While FN differs significantly and the substitution is enriched on one host , it is still tolerated in the other host and thus makes a poor host constriction target . Substitutions for host range constriction were considered ideal candidates if |FD| ≥ 1 . Variants with individual substitutions tested for EOP  were either picked from plaques or created using SDM on pHRec1 , which was used to create the variant using ORACLE . coli 10G , BL21 , or BW25113 . The maximum was used because any substitution that has a high FD on any host was theorized to require a stable protein . For BW25113ΔrfaG and BW25113ΔrfaD , we binned using an FN of 10 for the cutoff for enrichment instead . p-Values for EOP graphs compare plaque capability on the tested host to the reference host for the EOP graph . 
Individuals with congenital amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing . Accordingly , they downweight pitch cues during speech perception and instead rely on other dimensions such as duration . During fMRI , individuals with amusia  and controls  read sentences where a comma indicated a grammatical phrase boundary . They then heard two sentences spoken that differed only in pitch and/or duration cues and selected the best match for the written sentence . Prominent reductions in functional connectivity were detected in the amusia group between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions , which reflected the between-group differences in cue weights in the same groups of listeners . Connectivity differences between these regions were not present during a control task . Our results indicate that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functional connectivity between frontal and perceptual regions and suggest a compensatory mechanism . Congenital amusia is a rare condition characterized by impaired perception of and memory for pitch  . Although congenital amusia presents as an auditory condition , auditory cortical responses are normal  , as is subcortical encoding of pitch  . The dominant view of amusia’s neural basis is that connectivity between right inferior frontal cortex and right auditory cortex is impaired , resulting in impaired conscious access to pitch information for guiding behavior  . Although pitch is usually associated with music , it is also important for cueing categories in spoken language  and conveying emotion in speech  . In highly controlled laboratory tasks in which speech perception judgments must be made based on pitch alone , only minor deficits have been observed in amusia  . In naturalistic speech perception contexts , people with amusia rarely report any difficulties  . This may be because , in natural speech , pitch variation tends to co-occur with variation in other acoustic dimensions , such as duration and amplitude . Our lab has shown that in such cases where multiple redundant cues are available , English-speaking individuals with amusia tend to rely less on pitch than non-amusic controls , suggesting they may calibrate their perception by down-weighting the cues that are less reliable for them  . As for emotional prosody in speech , individuals with amusia can recognize emotions in spoken sentences , but not in short samples such as isolated vowels  , or when speech has been filtered to remove high-frequency non-pitch cues  . It is unknown how decreased reliance on a particular acoustic cue during speech perception  is reflected in the brain . In this model , the relative reliability of the modalities involved with perception of a stimulus is related to differential connectivity strength  . Similarly , effective connectivity between the  superior temporal sulcus  and visual and auditory areas has shown similar modulations during processing of audiovisual speech: connection strength between auditory cortex and the STS is weaker when noise has been introduced to the auditory speech , and conversely connection strength between visual cortex and STS is weaker if visual noise is introduced  . Individuals with typical pitch perception have learned through a lifetime of experience with speech acoustics that vocal pitch is a useful and reliable cue . By contrast , individuals with amusia , who have unreliable perception of and memory for pitch  , would have learned that , for them , pitch is not a reliable cue for processing spoken language . Thus , by analogy to the multisensory weighting results described above , we hypothesize that amusics may exhibit decreased connectivity between language regions and pitch-related areas during speech processing . In this study , no group differences were detected in task-related activation or functional connectivity during processing of speech  . However , the connectivity analyses in this study focused on the silent retention interval in a task in which participants needed to maintain phonemic and not pitch-related information in memory; the analyses also used broader bilateral ROIs within networks associated with language processing . It remains an open question how functional connectivity in amusic and non-amusic participants may differ during speech encoding in pitch-related language tasks within regions of interest selected with a whole-brain data-driven approach . To determine whether the relative reliability of auditory dimensions in speech perception is reflected in functional connectivity , we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to scan 15 individuals with amusia and 15 controls . These intonation changes were conveyed differently , in three conditions: Pitch-Informative  , Duration-Informative  or Both-Informative  . Finally , functional connectivity between these areas was analyzed with respect to prosodic cue weights obtained outside the scanner , and also compared to functional connectivity calculated from different scanning runs with a passive listening task . On each trial , participants read one visually presented text sentence , then heard two auditory versions of the sentence , only one of which contained an acoustically conveyed phrase boundary in the same place as in the text sentence  . Trials were scored as correct if a participant pressed the button associated with the auditory sentence that correctly matched the text sentence . Follow-up post-hoc testing indicated that performance in the Both-Informative condition  was more accurate than either Pitch-Informative ( t  = 2 . A data-driven approach was taken to identify brain regions with the largest group- and condition-related differences in functional connectivity  . Comparing whole-brain connectedness values by group  revealed four significant locations  that showed greater whole-brain connectedness for the control than for the amusia group  . All group differences were located in the inferior frontal cortex: two left hemisphere vertices  and two right hemisphere vertices  . Relative to control participants , amusic participants' left inferior frontal gyrus seed region showed particularly notable decreases in connectivity with the right posterior superior temporal and inferior parietal cortex , as well as with the right posterior superior temporal sulcus  . Analysis of subcortical connectivity indicated that there was also weaker connectivity with the right nucleus accumbens  . The right pars triangularis seed showed Control > Amusic connectivity with right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and left posterior superior temporal gyrus  . It also showed decreased connectivity with left nucleus accumbens . Right pars orbitalis showed decreased connectivity with right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  . There was also decreased connectivity with the left thalamus  . 5 indicating greater reliance on pitch than duration , and values less than 0 . 5 indicating greater reliance on duration than pitch  . These cue weights were assessed with respect to the functional connectivity results reported above . Across this subset of participants , normalized cue weights were correlated with L-DLPFC <=> R insula connectivity  , and L-DLPFC <=> R auditory cortex connectivity  . This indicated that participants who relied least on pitch information to process speech had the weakest functional connectivity between these areas , while those who relied most on pitch had the strongest . Although analyzing the control and amusic groups independently results in extremely small sample sizes , this pattern also held  within the 11 control participants alone , for both auditory cortex connectivity  and insular connectivity  . To ensure that the pattern of connectivity we observed between groups  was not due to intrinsic , task-irrelevant differences in neural architecture , the data from the language task was compared to that collected during passive listening to tone sequences . Whereas during speech perception amusic subjects showed reduced functional connectivity between left frontal and right insula/auditory ROIs relative to controls  , this pattern did not hold during passive listening to tones ( Amusia vs Control connectivity , p=0 . 29 , Group  by Task  interaction p=0 . 045 for the insula ROI; Amusia vs Control p=0 . 30 , Group by Task interaction p=0 . 035 for the auditory cortex ROI - see Figure 5 ) . These interactions suggest that our neural connectivity results are specifically linked to speech perception , rather than reflecting an overall connectivity difference between groups regardless of task state . Although we were concerned with functional connectivity rather than activation , we also tested for differences in activation levels between groups and conditions . We found that individuals with amusia , who have been previously shown to rely less on pitch than controls to process spoken language  , exhibited decreased functional connectivity between left frontal areas and right hemisphere pitch-related regions . In our task , participants matched spoken sentences with visually presented sentences based on pitch , duration , or both these acoustic dimensions together . Using a data-driven approach , we identified four regions in left and right inferior frontal cortex for which the amusic group exhibited decreased functional connectivity with several other sites in frontal , temporal and occipital cortex . The most prominent of these results was decreased connectivity between left frontal regions classically implicated in language processing  and right hemisphere regions —in the superior temporal gyrus and sulcus , Heschl’s gyrus , and anterior insula—that have been implicated in pitch processing  . We suggest that this decreased connectivity between right hemisphere pitch and left hemisphere frontal cortices may relate to the unreliability of the amusics’ perception of and memory for pitch . Congenital amusia is often described as a disorder related to structural and functional connectivity within the right hemisphere , particularly between right inferior frontal cortices and right posterior temporal cortex  . Consistent with this proposal , we found in the present study that right inferior frontal cortex exhibited strongly decreased functional connectivity in the amusia group , and follow-up seed testing revealed that right auditory areas were involved as well . However , we also found that sites in left frontal cortex also showed large decreases in connectivity in amusia , also most prominently with right hemisphere auditory areas . Our results are consistent with an account that right hemisphere auditory areas are not only abnormally connected to right frontal areas  but are less integrated with frontal left hemisphere regions when processing speech and language . Our null results for group differences in activation during speech processing are consistent with prior reports that amusics and controls do not differ in pitch representations within sensory regions . For example , the extent of pitch-responsive regions within auditory cortex has been shown to be similar in participants with amusia and controls  . Brainstem encoding of pitch in speech and musical stimuli is similarly unimpaired in individuals with amusia  . These findings , along with the fact that amusics show intact non-volitional behavioral responses  when presented with pitch-altered feedback of their own voice  , have been interpreted as evidence that amusia is a disorder of pitch awareness rather than one of low-level pitch processing  , with differences in structural connectivity as one possible foundation of this putative impaired pitch awareness  . Our interpretation of differences in functional connectivity between amusics and controls diverges somewhat from these previous approaches: we argue that down-weighting of pitch information during perceptual categorization in both speech and music is adaptive , inasmuch as amusics have learned that pitch is an unreliable source of evidence relative to other perceptual dimensions . The evidence above suggesting that encoding of pitch in the brainstem and auditory cortex and pre-attentive responses to pitch changes are unaffected in amusia can be interpreted as suggesting that the fundamental deficit in amusia may not be increased perceptual noise or decreased pitch awareness but difficulties with retention of pitch information in memory  . This interpretation is consistent with evidence suggesting that amusics have difficulty with pitch sequence processing tasks even when discrimination thresholds are accounted for  , as well as the finding that delaying the time interval between standard and comparison tones exacerbates pitch discrimination impairment in individuals with amusia  . Moreover , the pitch awareness account of amusia cannot explain the Jasmin et al . , 2020a finding that pitch cues are downweighted only during longer-scale suprasegmental speech perception , while pitch weighting is not different between amusics and controls during shorter-scale segmental speech perception , despite pitch cues being arguably more subtle in the segmental condition . However , this finding can be explained by the pitch memory account , as the suprasegmental task requires detection of and memory for pitch patterns within a complex sequence , while the segmental task does not . Furthermore , an account of amusia which suggests that the disorder primarily stems from differences in structural connectivity cannot account for the recent finding that functional connectivity patterns do not differ between amusics and controls during a verbal memory task  , as well as our finding that amusics and controls show similar functional connectivity patterns during passive listening to tone sequences . We suggest , therefore , that amusics neglect pitch because they have implicitly learned that their memory for pitch is unreliable , and that this down-weighting of pitch is reflected in decreased functional connectivity between right auditory areas and downstream task-relevant areas which integrate information from perceptual regions . One way to test this hypothesis would be to examine functional connectivity during perceptual categorization of consonant-vowel syllables as voiced versus unvoiced based on a pitch cue  and a durational cue  . We predict , based on our previous findings  , that functional connectivity will not differ between amusics and controls on this task , a finding which would not be predicted by the pitch awareness account of amusia . We note that a previous fMRI study on amusia detected group differences in functional connectivity during passive listening to tones . That study used task-defined seed voxels in bilateral auditory cortex and found , in the amusia group , increased connectivity between left and right auditory cortex , but decreased connectivity between right auditory cortex and right inferior frontal gyrus  . We did not observe any differences in functional connectivity between conditions in our speech task . Furthermore , pitch fluctuations in the stimuli were above participants’ thresholds , even in the Duration-Informative condition  , and so it is unsurprising that functional connectivity did not change on a trial-by-trial basis , and instead the same ‘neural strategy’ was employed to process speech regardless of the trial type . Several other future directions are suggested by our results , particularly for examining cue weighting during auditory/speech perception . Certain groups , such as tone language speakers , are known to have fine-grained pitch perception abilities , and tend to place greater weight on pitch even when processing speech from a second , non-tonal language that they have learned  . Given the increased reliability of their pitch perception , tone language speakers may exhibit correspondingly high connectivity strength between right hemisphere auditory regions and left hemisphere ‘language regions’ when pitch cues are present  . Participants , 15 individuals with amusia  and 15 controls  , were recruited from the UK and were native British English speakers . Amusia status was obtained using the Montreal Battery for the Evaluation of Amusia  . Participants with a composite score  of 65 or less were classified as having amusia  . We also note that the amusics defined using the MBEA had higher pitch thresholds than controls  but did not differ from controls in tone duration discrimination  , speech-in-noise threshold  , or audiometric hearing thresholds ( t  = 1 . Then , morphed speech was synthesized by varying the degree to which the early closure and late closure recordings contributed duration and pitch information . We synthesized pairs of stimuli in three conditions:  In the Pitch-Informative condition , the stimulus pair had exactly the same durational properties  but the vocal pitch indicated early or late closure at a morphing level of 80%;  in the Duration-Informative condition , vocal pitch in the stimulus pair was identical  but the durational characteristics indicated early or late closure at a morphing level of 80%;  in the Both-Informative condition , both pitch and time cued early or late closure simultaneously at 80% . The morphed speech varied only in duration and pitch , while all other aspects of the acoustics  were the same , held constant at 50% between the two original recordings during morphing . Thus , even the stimulus pair with the smallest pitch difference  exceeded the ~1 . 5 semitone pitch change detection threshold of the ‘most impaired’ participant in the amusia group  , which increased the chances that the amusia group would not suffer from poor performance , thereby avoiding a performance-related confound with our experimental design  . Each trial  lasted 12 . At t = 1 s into the trial , the sentence appeared on the screen; before scanning participants were instructed to read each sentence silently to themselves . At t = 5 s  participants heard a spoken version of the first part of the sentence . The two spoken versions contained the same words but their pitch and/or timing characteristics cued a phrase boundary that occurred earlier or later in the sentence . 7 for pitch . Participants listened to 100 tone sequences across two runs  . Beta series correlation  is a technique for examining functional connectivity and its modulation by task , using correlations in trial-by-trial responses . In a beta series analysis , one beta weight is calculated for each trial in the experiment  . Finally , using the beta series in the same way as a standard BOLD fMRI time series , functional connectivity  is calculated between seed regions of interest and the rest of the brain . Differences in functional connectivity can then be examined by comparing groups , comparing conditions , or examining the interaction of these factors . Because there were 30 participants , this procedure resulted in a total of 90 beta series  . To do this , we first calculated the ‘whole-brain connectedness’ of each cortical vertex  . Participant was treated as a random intercept . The first analysis step  identified which , if any , brain areas showed the largest connectivity differences between groups . Each seed region was examined with respect to its connectivity pattern with every cortical vertex and subcortical structure . For each of the 90 beta series  , values within the seed vertices were averaged and then correlated with the beta series for every vertex in the brain . For each of the seeds , we tested for the group difference  in connectivity . To determine whether the functional connectivity patterns we observed were related to the importance placed on acoustic dimensions during prosodic categorization  , the functional connectivity results were analyzed with respect to previously acquired cue weights obtained behaviorally from a subset of participants  . The right anterior insula and right auditory cortex results were used as ROIs  . For the 21 participants for whom we had prosodic cue weight data  , these cue weights were analyzed with respect to the functional connectivity between the L-DLPFC seed and the two ROIs using Spearman correlations . As described above , functional connectivity between L-DLPFC , and right auditory cortex and right insula was calculated using data from the passive tone listening task , using ROIs derived from the active speech perception task . Similarly for the data from the speech task , the average value within the seed region and both ROIs was extracted , separately for each of the 3 Beta series  , and the seed and ROI series were correlated . The speech task can be demoed at the following link:  . 
Here we show that in contrast to DFT1 , DFT2 cells express major histocompatibility complex  class I molecules , demonstrating that loss of MHC is not necessary for the emergence of a contagious cancer . However , the most highly expressed MHC class I alleles in DFT2 cells are common among host devils or non-polymorphic , reducing immunogenicity in a population sharing these alleles . In parallel , MHC class I loss is emerging in vivo , thus DFT2 may be mimicking the evolutionary trajectory of DFT1 . Recent immunohistochemical and drug sensitivity analyses of DFT2 indicate it arose from a similar tissue to DFT1  . As allografts , DFT1 and DFT2 cells should be rejected by the host devil through T cell recognition of non-self MHC class I molecules encoded by the major histocompatibility complex   . Five MHC class I genes have been identified in the genomic region encoding the Tasmanian devil MHC  . We have previously demonstrated that DFT1 cells down-regulate MHC class I and class II molecules from their cell surface , thereby removing the targets for a T cell response  . Loss of MHC class I is due to epigenetic down-regulation of β2m , and the peptide transporter encoded by TAP1 and TAP2  but MHC class I can be restored in DFT1 cells when treated with IFNγ  . MHC class I positive DFT1 cells have since been used with some success in initiating immune responses to DFT1 cells  . Here we show that in contrast to DFT1 , DFT2 cells express MHC class I molecules . Finally , DFT2 tumours were identified with evidence of MHC class I loss , indicating the emergence of MHC class I down-regulation in this tumour . Flow cytometry using a monoclonal antibody against Tasmanian devil β2m was used to assess the level of MHC class I expression on the surface of a representative DFT1 cell line   , DFT1 cells treated with IFNγ   , three DFT2 cell lines   and devil fibroblast cells   . As has been previously reported  , DFT1 cells do not express β2m , but DFT1 cells treated with IFNγ upregulate β2m to the same level as devil fibroblast cells . 1 ) followed by DFT2_RV  and DFT2_SN  . Although all three DFT2 cell lines express β2m , they have lower levels of β2m than DFT1 cells that have been treated with IFNγ  and devil fibroblasts  . These results indicate that DFT2 cells grown in culture express surface MHC class I molecules in contrast to DFT1 , which is MHC class I negative . RT-qPCR was used to quantify the relative level of MHC class I gene expression for β2m , classical MHC class I and non-classical MHC class I genes in vitro  . RT-qPCR shows that DFT2 cells express significantly higher levels of β2m  , classical MHC class I heavy chain genes   and non-classical MHC class I   than DFT1_4906 . However , expression of β2m and Saha-UA , -UB and -UC by DFT2 cells is lower than that of DFT1_4906 + IFNγ and Fibroblasts , which is consistent with the levels of β2m expression observed on the DFT2 cell lines . Interestingly , while the levels of Saha-UA , -UB and -UC in the three DFT2 cell lines is lower than DFT1_4906 + IFNγ  , the levels of Saha-UK are not significantly different  . This is despite the fact that the expression level of the classical MHC class I genes reflects the amplification of three different MHC class I loci compared to a single locus , Saha-UK . Thus , DFT2 cells in vitro express both classical and non-classical MHC class I heavy chain genes . To extend this analysis to primary DFT2 tumours we used RT-PCR to amplify β2m and MHC class I heavy chain transcripts from the DFT2 cell lines and six primary DFT2 tumours collected between March 2014 and January 2016  . The primary tumours include DFT2_RVT1 and DFT2_SNT2 from which the cell lines DFT2_RV and DFT2_SN were derived . The cell lines and primary tumours express classical MHC class I , but the expression levels appear to be variable between the primary tumours . While this analysis is not quantitative , as the amount of stroma in each sample varies between tumours , these results show that DFT2 cells express both classical and non-classical MHC class I transcripts alongside β2m . To further investigate the expression of MHC class I molecules between DFT2 tumours in vivo , a shared peptide immunogen was used to raise a pan-classical MHC I antibody against the classical MHC class I heavy chains  . A second peptide , specific in sequence to Saha-UK , was used to raise an antibody against the non-classical MHC class I , Saha-UK . Staining of DFT2 serial sections from six primary DFT2 tumours  with these antibodies demonstrates expression of both classical  and non-classical  MHC class I molecules in vivo  . However , this analysis also demonstrates that MHC class I expression is variable in DFT2 tumours . Three of the tumours , DFT2_RVT1 , DFT2_SNT2 and DFT2_818T1  , retain strong expression of classical class I molecules , with localisation to the cell membrane . This result is consistent with the cell surface expression of β2m observed on the DFT2_RV and DFT2_SN cell lines , derived from two of these primary tumours  . However , expression of classical MHC class I in DFT2_547 and DFT2_523 is weaker , appears mostly cytoplasmic and shows some variation in staining intensity , with some cells in DFT2_547 showing very low levels of expression . Strikingly , DFT2_812 is negative for classical MHC class I  . The expression of Saha-UK also varies between and within DFT2 biopsies  . DFT2_RVT1 cells are uniformly positive for Saha-UK , whereas DFT2_SNT2 and DFT2_547 have variable expression , with some areas staining more weakly . Interestingly , there is some evidence for Saha-UK staining in DFT2_812 , a tumour negative for classical MHC class I , but DFT2_523 is largely Saha-UK negative  . While the DFT2 tumours with strong classical class I expression show localisation to the cell membrane  , staining for Saha-UK shows a cytoplasmic distribution in some of the DFT2 tumours . Notably , DFT2 tumours also show morphological heterogeneity  . DFT2 tumour cells are sometimes arranged as nests separated by a fibroblastic stroma , for example DFT2_547T1 , but can also be arranged in diffuse sheets separated by a fibrous component , for example DFT2_818T1 and DFT2_523T1 . The expression of MHC molecules by DFT2 cells may mean that this tumour is more immunogenic than DFT1 . No CD3 positive cells were observed in DFT2_RV or DFT2_547  , but a more significant number of CD3 positive cells is evident in DFT2_818 , DFT2_523 and DFT2_812  , where the lymphocytes are clustered at the stroma and some cells can be seen infiltrating the tumour mass . A small number of CD3 positive cells are visible in DFT2_SN  . The classical MHC class I alleles expressed by DFT2 cells should play a role in any host immune response against the tumour . To assess the MHC class I alleles expressed by DFT2 cells we amplified , cloned and sequenced exon 2  of MHC class I transcripts from DFT2 cell lines . Previous analysis of DFT2 DNA has identified four MHC class I sequences from Saha-UA , Saha-UB and Saha-UC and one sequence from Saha-UD present in the DFT2 genome  . We find that DFT2 cells express all five genomic MHC class I sequences , SahaI*35  , SahaI*90  SahaI*74/88  , SahaI*27  and SahaI*32  loci  . Alignment of MHC class I sequences from DFT2 and DFT1 cells  show that across exon 2 of the heavy chain DFT1 and DFT2 share expression of four MHC class I alleles , SahaI*27 , SahaI*90 , SahaI*35 and SahaI*27–1 , with only SahaI*46 unique to DFT1 and SahaI*74/88 unique to DFT2  . Using gene specific primers we were able to confirm that both DFT2 and DFT1 cells also express Saha-UK   . To assess the relative expression level of each of the classical MHC class I alleles in DFT2 cells , PCR amplicons were cloned and >60 clones were sequenced , resulting in 61 classical MHC class I sequences from DFT2 . These results indicate that DFT2 cells do not express MHC class I alleles equally and that the dominant allele is SahaI*27 . Given the dominant expression of SahaI*27 by DFT2 cells we determined the prevalence of SahaI*27 and other MHC class I alleles in three host devils . Exon 2 of MHC class I transcripts were amplified from the mRNA of spleen samples from three devils infected with DFT2   . Alignment of the sequences demonstrates that the host devils share SahaI*32  , Saha-UK and SahaI*27 with DFT2 . In addition , TD_818 and TD_SN share SahaI*27–1 and either SahaI*35 or SahaI*90 with DFT2  . The MHC class I alleles that are expressed by DFT2 cells but not by the hosts are of particular interest as they are likely to be immunogenic upon cell transmission . The class I alleles with lower expression on DFT2 , SahaI*90 and SahaI*35 , share between 91 and 97% amino acid identity with the host alleles . Here we show that DFT2 cells express classical and non-classical MHC class I molecules both in vitro and in vivo . This is in stark contrast to DFT1 , a likely older and more widespread contagious cancer in the Tasmanian devil , which has lost expression of MHC class I  . However , DFT2 cells express the non-polymorphic , non-classical MHC class I molecule  likely reducing the immunogenicity of these tumour cells . Further , the classical MHC class I allele with the highest expression in DFT2 cells is shared with host devils . Finally , we show that MHC class I expression varies among DFT2 tumours in vivo , suggesting that MHC class I negative subclones could emerge as DFT2 transmits more widely . Our results demonstrate that DFT2 cells express MHC class I molecules , in contrast to DFT1 and the contagious cancer circulating among dogs , CTVT . DFT1 cells lack surface expression of MHC class I due to loss of β2m , TAP1 and TAP2 transcripts  . In contrast , we show that DFT2 cells express cell surface β2m molecules in addition to classical and non-classical class I heavy chains , indicating that functional MHC class I are present on the surface of DFT2 cells . The expression of a non-classical MHC class I molecule , Saha-UK , on DFT2 cells could reduce the immunogenicity of the tumour cells . Saha-UK is expressed in some DFT2 tumours in vivo and the Saha-UK heavy chain is expressed at similar levels to the three classical MHC class I genes  in vitro . Non-classical MHC class I molecules can be inhibitory ligands for NK receptors and some human cancers down-regulate classical MHC class I and overexpress non-classical MHC class I to avoid a cytotoxic immune response  . DFT2 cells also express classical MHC class I alleles belonging to the Saha-UA , -UB and -UC loci . Of these classical MHC class I alleles , SahaI*27 is the most abundant in DFT2 cells and is also found in the three host devils , reducing the immunogenicity of DFT2 cells in these animals . The primers designed in this study should amplify all known DFT1 and DFT2 MHC class I alleles with equal efficiency , suggesting that this allele represents an MHC class I locus with dominant expression . The similarity of the MHC class I alleles between DFT2 and host devils may reflect a shared geographical range and genotype pool to the cancer founder's  . The heterogenic expression of MHC class I molecules in DFT2 biopsies suggests that MHC class I expression is not fixed and may be gradually lost in DFT2 . While some MHC class I alleles are shared between DFT2 and its hosts , the tumour does have a number of unique alleles . It is possible that , like single organism tumours , DFT2 is undergoing immunoediting  , which can operate to down-regulate specific MHC class I alleles that are immunogenic  or select for mutations that remove or modulate total MHC class I expression . However , while four of the six primary DFT2 tumours examined have CD3 positive cells in the tumour mass , which may indicate an immune response , the infiltration is notably present in DFT2_812 , which is negative for classical MHC class I and could be expected to be CD3 negative . While DFT1 cells currently circulating in the population are MHC class I negative , it is possible that DFT1 down regulated MHC class I expression after the tumour became transmissible and that initial transmission events were among individuals that shared prevalent MHC class I alleles . DFT1 is now at least 21 years old and CTVT is predicted to be over 10 , 000 years old  , whereas DFT2 was first discovered in 2014 and is most likely a recently emerged tumour  . The DFT1 cell line , DFT1_4906 , and fibroblast cell line , Fibroblasts_Salem , have been described elsewhere  . Cell lines DFT1_4906 , DFT2_RV and DFT2_SN were grown in RPMI 1640 with L-glutamine  with 10% heat inactivated foetal bovine serum   and penicillin/streptomycin   . SahaI*27 and Saha-UK were amplified from devil fibroblast cDNA using primer Saha349 and Saha350  and Saha335 and Saha351   . DFT1 and DFT2 primary tumours were fixed in 10%  PBS-buffered formalin solution for 2 to 4 d . Primer set one was designed to amplify the classical MHC class I  by aligning all available MHC class I sequences from the Tasmanian devil and embedding primers in conserved regions . Primer set two was designed to amplify the non-classical MHC class I  . Recombinant DNA at five dilutions  was used to create a standard curve of amplification of MHC class I Saha-UK and MHC class I Saha-UA , UB and UC with R2 values of 0 . The Nucleospin RNA II kit  was used to extract RNA from DFT2 cell lines , DFT1 cells after treatment with IFNγ , and host samples  . Three primer sets were used to amplify all classical and non-classical MHC class I alleles . To assess the relative abundance of each of the classical MHC class I alleles within DFT2 cells 65 clones were isolated and sequenced using primer set 1 . 
Observed thalamocortical synaptic dynamics enable computational models of LR neurons to compute the speed of head rotation , despite receiving head direction inputs that do not explicitly encode speed . Cortical regions , including the RSG , receive inputs from one or more thalamic nuclei  . Matrix thalamocortical  inputs from the anterior thalamus , which contains the highest proportion of head direction cells in the brain  , influence layer 5 pyramidal cells in RSG  . Specifically , we find that anterior thalamus and dorsal subiculum preferentially control LR neurons , whereas claustrum and anterior cingulate control RS cells . We show that the synaptic dynamics of thalamic inputs allow for the robust encoding of angular speed by LR cell models , even though these inputs only explicitly contain information about head direction , not speed . Together , our results suggest that LR neurons are ideally positioned to contribute to the initial spatial orientation computations performed in superficial RSG . To test whether these thalamocortical inputs target the LR and RS neurons in layer 3 , we stimulated the thalamic axons and terminals with 1 ms LED pulses at a 10 Hz frequency for 1 s at high LED power over the cell body of the patched neurons  . From resting membrane potentials of approximately −65 mV , LR neurons were strongly driven past spike threshold by these thalamic inputs while RS neurons exhibited far smaller EPSPs  . Compared to their baseline activity , this stimulation evoked a significant increase in spiking in LR neurons  but not RS neurons  . The LR neurons thus had a significantly larger increase in spike rate evoked by the optical pulse than RS neurons  . This suggests that LR neurons receive stronger activation from TC inputs than their neighboring L3 RS neurons . LR neurons are morphologically distinct from their neighboring RS neurons  . Given the precise laminar pattern of anterior thalamic inputs to RSG  , we next investigated the overlap between anterior thalamic afferents and the dendritic morphologies of reconstructed LR  and RS  cells  . Apical dendrites of LR neurons were most densely localized to L1a , with basal dendrites remaining confined to L3  . Thus , dendrites of LR , but not RS , cells selectively co-localize within layers 1a and 3 with ADAV TC afferents  . To further verify this , we examined the responses of L3 LR and RS neurons to ADAV input at L1a , where the highest projection density of ADAV inputs exist  . Notably , in response to layer one stimulation , LR cells also showed significantly larger EPSP amplitudes compared to L5 RS neurons  , which have been previously shown to respond to TC input  . This suggests that LR neurons , rather than layer 3 or 5 RS neurons , are the predominant RSG cell type receiving and processing head direction inputs from the anterior thalamus . We found that within the LR cell population , LR cells have significantly larger responses at L1a  and cell body  compared to L1/2  . This lamination of functional responses in the LR population precisely aligns with the lamination of ADAV axons and terminal arbors within these superficial layers . This demonstrates that LR neurons are uniquely anatomically adapted to respond to incoming inputs from the anterior thalamus , where ~ 60% of neurons are head direction cells  , due to a precise overlap of their apical dendrites with the dense thalamic axons and terminals in the uppermost sublamina of L1  . Two other main sources of input to RSG are the claustrum  and anterior cingulate cortex  . To address this , we next used CRACM , this time to examine CLA inputs to RSG LR and RS neurons and then compared these projections to RSG thalamic inputs . Dendritic lamination plots of LR and RS dendrites and projection density plots of CLA axons and terminal arbors show that RS , but not LR , apical dendrites anatomically overlap with CLA arbors in superficial layers 1 c and two and upper layer 5  . Using the same targeted optogenetic stimulation approach as previously described  , we found that RS neurons have significantly larger responses to CLA input compared to LR neurons when stimulated at layer 1/2  , the area of the strongest superficial projection density of CLA arbors . Similarly , layer 5 RS neurons exhibited significantly larger EPSP amplitudes in response to CLA inputs compared to LR cells  . This again indicates that while LR neurons may be optimally positioned to receive thalamic input , RS neurons in both RSG L3 and L5 are instead the primary recipients of CLA inputs . To further examine the lamination of ClaC inputs to LR and RS neurons and their resulting responses , we again conducted the high-resolution CRACM protocol using minimum LED power  . In contrast , the complementary LR cell had no response to LED stimulation at any of the laminar locations  . In contrast , LR EPSP amplitudes across all layers were much lower in magnitude and did not differ from responses at L1a  , indicating no significant lamination of functional responses to ClaC inputs in the LR population . Indeed , when stimulating ACC arbors at L1/2 , RS cells had significantly larger EPSP amplitudes compared to LR cells  . In contrast , the much smaller LR EPSP amplitudes across all layers did not differ from responses at L1a  . Thus , both claustrocortical and corticocortical inputs to RSG target RS apical dendrites at the lower divisions of L1  , whereas thalamocortical inputs preferentially target the apical dendrites of LR cells in upper L1  . These inputs overlap with LR cell bodies and basal dendrites and have been shown to evoke larger excitatory postsynaptic currents in superficial compared to layer 5 pyramidal neurons  . These results suggest that DS projections to RSC may be targeting LR cells , potentially resulting in converging spatial information from both ADAV and DS onto LR cells . However , it remains unknown whether LR or layer 3 RS cells are the predominant target of these DS projections . To investigate this , we repeated our CRACM protocols and examined the functional responses of LR and layer 3 RS cells to DS inputs  . We found that DS afferents to layer 3 of RSG precisely overlap with LR basal and , to a lesser degree , proximal apical dendrites  but not RS basal dendrites  . Correspondingly , LR neurons responded with significantly larger EPSPs compared to RS neurons when DS inputs were stimulated at the cell body in layer 3  . Our high-resolution protocol and population analysis also confirmed that LR cells had significantly larger responses at layers 1/2 and 3 compared to L1a  , suggesting the possibility of integration of synchronous anterior thalamic and dorsal subicular inputs by LR neurons . Thus , inputs from both the dorsal subiculum and anterior thalamus target LR cells , reflecting their precise overlap with LR dendrites , while the claustrum and anterior cingulate cortex instead target RS cells . We found that LR dendrites are strongly and significantly positively correlated with both ADAV  and DS  axons . Notably , LR dendrites are significantly negatively correlated with both CLA  and ACC  axons , and RS dendrites are negatively correlated with ADAV  and DS  axons  . These anatomical results mirror our functional findings that LR neurons are preferentially driven by both ADAV and DS inputs , while RS neurons are targeted by CLA and ACC inputs . Taken together , these axon-axon , dendrite-dendrite , and axon-dendrite correlations indicate that precise , fine-grained laminar organization of LR and RS dendrites and afferent axons creates a parallel circuit in which LR neurons are selectively optimized to integrate incoming spatial information  . Supplemental examination of contralateral RSG  inputs to RSG showed lamination and resulting cell-type-specific targeting resembling that of projections from CLA and ACC  . Specifically , cRSG inputs targeted L1c , L2 , and L5 , resulting in strong activation of RS cells , with almost no responses in LR cells  . This again suggests that inputs from CLA , ACC and cRSG follow a structured pattern by which these inputs preferentially control RS cells , while ADAV and DS projections target LR cells . LR short-term dynamics were examined in response to ADAV and DS inputs , while RS short-term dynamics were examined in response to CLA and ACC inputs  . In contrast to previously documented thalamocortical matrix inputs to both superficial pyramidal cells and interneurons  , 10 Hz anterior thalamic inputs from ADAV to RSG LR neurons were uniquely and significantly depressing  . In contrast , 10 Hz DS inputs to LR neurons were not depressing and exhibited weak facilitation  . Both CLA and ACC inputs to RS cells were also weakly facilitating  . Thus , the synaptic depression of anterior thalamic inputs to LR neurons is unique among the inputs examined here and also distinct from anterior thalamic inputs to superficial principal neurons in PFC and ACC  . As expected , we found that ADAV inputs to LR cells do not show synaptic depression at the much slower stimulation frequency of 0 . Up to 60% of cells in the anterior thalamus are classical head direction  cells  . Our modeling setup consisted of a postsynaptic RSG LR cell receiving input from an ensemble of 7500 presynaptic HD cells via depressing synapses  . The synaptic parameters were fit to match the experimentally observed response of LR cells to optogenetic stimulation of thalamic afferents reported above  . We found that the firing rate of the postsynaptic LR cell receiving HD input via depressing synapses was strongly correlated with angular head speed , giving rise to symmetrical angular head velocity tuning  . Identical HD inputs transmitted via non-depressing synapses resulted in LR firing rates that were uncorrelated with angular head speed  . To more systematically understand if and how the ATI of HD cells influences angular head speed coding by LR neurons , we next performed a series of simulations using various fixed ATI values for the entire HD population  and analyzed the resulting postsynaptic LR response . Increasing ATI from 0 ms  to higher values  improved the lag between LR firing rate and angular head speed , with larger ATIs resulting in shorter latency between the head movement and LR coding of that angular head speed  . Our analysis allowed us to mathematically derive that LR activity should encode head speed with depressing synapses from simplified HD cells  . Thus , both the simulations and the analytical theory show that synaptic depression of HD cell input onto LR cells should result in angular speed coding in the LR cell firing rate , and that anticipatory firing improves both the precision and quality of this coding . In the simulations above , we utilized a uniform distribution of HD inputs to each LR cell , such that each preferred direction was equally represented . However , in practice , it is likely that there will be heterogeneity in the preferred HDs of the cells providing inputs to any given retrosplenial LR cell . To study the extent to which speed coding persists under these conditions , we simulated a population of 200 LR cells , each of which received inputs from a randomly selected distribution of preferred directions for the presynaptic HD cells  . We then analyzed the information content of each LR cell’s firing rate , assessing the correlation and mutual information with both head direction and speed . We found that single cell activity in the LR population could encode both head direction and head speed  , but there was a clear tradeoff between the two types of information . If an LR cell receives inputs that represent each HD equally , then it is not biased towards any one HD and encodes direction poorly . However , it encodes head speed very strongly in this case because it is able to sample the speed across all directions—there are no directional blind spots where the LR cell cannot detect the speed of head rotation from its presynaptic inputs . On the other hand , consider an LR cell that , by chance , gets inputs from a higher proportion of HD cells encoding a direction around 180 degrees . Now , the output of this LR cell is better correlated with direction , acting as a broadly tuned HD cell itself and preferring 180 degrees , but also firing at most other directions . However , this LR cell’s encoding of head speed gets worse because it under-samples many of the head directions faced by an animal . Thus , non-uniform HD inputs via depressing thalamocortical synapses represent a simple mechanism by which LR cells can conjunctively encode both head direction and head speed . Overall , our results predict in vivo LR neuronal spike trains that are likely to correlate with both the head direction and rotational speed of an animal , with a tradeoff between direction versus speed coding seen across individual LR cells  . The small , excitable LR cells are unique among pyramidal cells in RSG , and there is no evidence , to our knowledge , for such cells in any other cortical regions  . Thus , LR cells are the defining morphological feature of RSG . The distinct electrophysiological properties of LR neurons , specifically , play an integral role in the RSG’s unique capacity to process anterior thalamic head direction inputs . Thus , late-spiking is neither a distinctive feature of LR neurons nor excitatory neurons in this region . Further work is needed to determine whether any particular subtype of layer five pyramidal neurons may exhibit substantial TC-evoked responses , but our results , reporting significantly larger responses to TC input by LR neurons , suggest LR cells are the predominant spatial information-encoding subtype within RSG . The dorsal subiculum , which serves to transmit allocentric spatial information such as axis and boundary vector signals  , also precisely targets LR neurons via projections predominantly to layer 3 of RSG  . These inputs overlap with LR cell bodies , basal dendrites , and apical dendrites in L1b/c and evoke larger excitatory postsynaptic currents in superficial cells compared to layer 5 pyramidal neurons  . Thus , the distinct morphology and intrinsic properties of LR neurons make them ideally suited to integrate head direction input from the thalamus and spatial inputs from the hippocampal formation via the dorsal subiculum . We have shown that thalamocortical synapses onto LR cells are depressing  . Our modeling results demonstrate that such depressing synapses allow LR neurons to compute angular head speed from head direction input , leading to robust encoding of angular speed in the postsynaptic LR firing rate  . We also find that LR encoding of angular head speed is improved by the fact that input HD cells display anticipatory firing  . This improvement not only allows LR cells to encode current head speed with a shorter time lag  , but also strengthens the correlation with head speed regardless of lag  . Furthermore , we have shown that this thalamocortical synapse can support conjunctive encoding of both head direction and angular head speed by individual LR cells  . Our results make specific predictions about the coding properties of LR cells that can be tested with in vivo recordings . Second , we expect LR cell activity to be correlated with angular head speed with a relatively small lag  . Fourth , we anticipate a significant proportion of LR cells will show conjunctive encoding , where both angular head speed and direction are encoded . As a population , this is likely to allow LR cells to comprehensively encode conjunctive speed and directional information and provide this information to downstream targets , helping with spatial orientation computations within RSG . Our modeling work so far has focused on understanding the computational implications of thalamic inputs to LR cells . Given the diversity of spatial and directional encoding seen in the dorsal subiculum  , computational models will allow for the rigorous undertanding of how each possible type of subicular input  to LR cells interacts with thalamic head direction inputs . We anticipate that one key impact of dorsal subicular inputs to LR cells will be to impose a spatial filter on the angular speed and directional predictions stated above . In particular , the precise organization of layer 1 dendrites and axons may make LR cells most responsive to the near-synchronous arrival of inputs from both thalamic head direction cells  and dorsal subicular boundary vector or axis cells  . LR neurons do not synapse onto neighboring excitatory neurons within layers 2/3  , and no  pairs tested in this study between LR and layer 5 RS cells exhibited connectivity  . Thus , LR cells likely do not provide any substantial input to other LR cells or any RS cells located in layers 2–5 of ipsilateral RSG . Instead , LR neurons send their axons into the corpus callosum and may likely target homotopic regions of contralateral RSG  . Indeed , retrograde injections into one RSG hemisphere have been shown to predominantly label small contralateral L2/3 cells  , most likely corresponding to the LR cells that constitute the majority of cells in L2/3  . Our supplementary results  show that inputs from contralateral RSG preferentially and strongly target RS neurons , with almost no recruitment of LR neurons . This is consistent with the observed distribution of afferent axons from contralateral RSG: these axons and terminals avoid L1a and L3 where all LR dendrites are located  . Thus , we propose the following hypotheses for LR downstream targets and possible function: LR neurons in one hemisphere receive unilateral inputs from directional cells in the anterior thalamus  . These inputs are utilized to encode information about both the speed and direction of head rotations and are subsequently transmitted to RS cells in contralateral , but not ipsilateral , RSG  . Thus , LR cells may serve to perform a hemispheric switch of rotational speed and direction information . In contrast to thalamic and DS inputs to RSG , projections from both the claustrum and anterior cingulate cortex avoid laminar overlap with LR apical dendrites , instead projecting to the lower divisions of L1/2 and L5 to target RS apical and basal dendrites  . LR neurons receive directional and spatial inputs from the anterior thalamus and dorsal subiculum . The synaptic dynamics of thalamic inputs to LR cells can give rise to rate coding of angular head speed in LR cells . In contrast , neighboring RS neurons in RSG respond very weakly to these directional inputs , as their apical and basal dendrites distinctly avoid laminar overlap with anterior thalamic and subicular afferents . Instead , RS neurons respond to claustrocortical and anterior cingulate inputs . Our model circuit consists of an RSG LR cell receiving input from an ensemble of N thalamic HD cells , via synapses exhibiting short-term depression . We model the postsynaptic LR cell using the morphologically detailed model originally presented in Brennan et al . We place each HD input → LR synapse at a random location on a distal apical dendrite of the LR cell; varying this synaptic placement does not qualitatively change results  . Each postsynaptic cell receives input from N presynaptic HD cells , each of which has a unique PA . 
The mechanisms that promote prion-like spreading of Tau aggregates after TBI are not fully understood , in part due to lack of tractable animal models . Here , we test the putative role of seizures in promoting the spread of tauopathy . We introduce ‘tauopathy reporter’ zebrafish expressing a genetically encoded fluorescent Tau biosensor that reliably reports accumulation of human Tau species when seeded via intraventricular brain injections . Subjecting zebrafish larvae to a novel TBI paradigm produced various TBI features including cell death , post–traumatic seizures , and Tau inclusions . Bath application of dynamin inhibitors or anticonvulsant drugs rescued TBI-induced tauopathy and cell death . These data suggest a role for seizure activity in the prion-like seeding and spreading of tauopathy following TBI . Regardless , the primary mechanisms have much in common and the neuropathology in TBI and CTE patients includes the wide distribution of hyperphosphorylated Tau pathology , axonal degeneration , and neuronal loss  . Later in CTE , Tau pathology is widespread and incorporates cortical and subcortical gray-matter areas  . This broad spreading of Tau pathology in CTE can also be observed following TBI ascribed to single trauma events  . This spreading of Tauopathy is consistent with a prion-like mechanism; indeed , brain homogenates from mice subjected to TBI can initiate p-Tau pathology when injected into healthy wild-type mice  . The recipient mice develop a p-Tau pathology similar to single severe TBI patients , which then spreads from injection sites to distant regions , behaving similarly to bona fide prions  . Beyond TBI , the self-propagation and prion-like spread of Tau aggregates is thought to play a key role in the progression of other tauopathies such as AD  . In AD and other tauopathies , observations from patients and mice have highlighted the capacity of Tau seeds to spread trans-synaptically  . Moreover , it has been shown that neuronal activity serves an important role in the spread of Tau pathology and general proteostasis  . Stimulation of neuronal activity increased the extracellular release of Tau to the media in vitro and enhanced Tau pathology in a mouse model of familial frontotemporal dementia  . Whether similar mechanisms of Tau release and spread occur following TBI remains unknown . In this light , an intriguing aspect of TBI is the prominence of post-traumatic seizures that might be predicted to initiate the aggregation and/or exacerbate the spread of Tau pathology . Seizures are one of the key consequences of all types of TBI , and they have been more commonly reported in patients who suffered from blast injuries  . Although the exact prevalence remains undetermined  , it is anticipated that over 50% of TBI patients with severe injuries develop seizures or post-traumatic epilepsy  . A link between seizures and Tau pathology is suggested by increased prevalence of seizures in AD patients and animal models of AD  . To address these issues , we engineered a tauopathy biosensor transgenic zebrafish that develops GFP+ puncta when Tau aggregates within the brain or spinal cord . Additionally , we introduce a simple medium-throughput method to induce TBI in zebrafish larvae . Combining these novel approaches , we found that post-traumatic seizures correlate strongly with spreading tau pathology following TBI . Manipulating this seizure activity mitigated Tau aggregation and revealed a critical role for endocytosis in the prion-like spread of Tau seeds in vivo following TBI . The results from our novel in vivo TBI model implicate seizures and dynamin-dependent endocytosis in the spread of Tau seeds , thereby offering potential therapeutic targets . Previous reports describe the assessment and quantification of Tau inclusions in living cells  , via measuring aggregation of fluorescent proteins fused to Tau protein , providing sensitive detection of pathological Tau species and strain variants  . Therefore , we engineered a tauopathy biosensor transgenic zebrafish that expresses a fluorescent Tau reporter protein . Our genetically encoded fluorescent reporter protein was composed of the sequence of the human Tau core-repeat domain fused to green fluorescent protein  with a linker sequence and is referred to here as Tau4R-GFP  . We assessed the capacity of our Tau4R-GFP biosensor to report the presence of Tau pathology via transducing brain homogenates into cells . Brain homogenates burdened with tauopathy , from transgenic mice expressing mutant human Tau  , were compared to normal non-Tg mouse homogenates as a negative control . To verify that Tau aggregates in the clarified brain homogenate caused the GFP+ puncta , we purified Tau aggregates from the tissue samples using PTA precipitations  . Tau fibrils purified from these preparations were characterized via EM analysis  . Transducing these preparations  produced fluorescent puncta in the Tau4R-GFP reporter cells  , confirming the ability of our Tau4R-GFP chimeric protein to report Tau aggregation . To test if the Tau4R-GFP biosensor can report the in vivo progression of tauopathy , we emulated intracerebral injection methods that induce  Tau pathology in mice  . We injected clarified brain homogenate laden with human Tau fibrils , prepared as above from Tg mice , into the hindbrain ventricle of 2 days post-fertilization  Tau biosensor zebrafish  . Biosensor larvae injected with human Tau fibrils  developed GFP+ puncta , reflective of Tau aggregation in the brain  . These Tau inclusions were prominent near the ventricle wall as well as in sensory neurons along the spinal cord , when injected with brain homogenate from human-tau transgenic mouse  . The abundance of GFP+ spinal cord inclusions was progressive and significantly higher in larvae injected with pathogenic Tau brain homogenate compared with various controls  . A total of 80% and 35% of the larvae injected with human Tau fibrils developed puncta in the brain and spinal cord , respectively  . On the other hand , a lower proportion of TAu biosensor larvae developed ‘spontaneous’ inclusions post-injection with the control brain homogenate from wild-type mice  . Tau aggregates were detected on the spinal cord region as early as 2 dpi . Intriguingly , a small percentage of larvae developed sporadic GFP+ Tau aggregates regardless of treatment . Visualizing the data as distributions of larvae with particular abundances of GFP+ inclusions  highlights a trend where most larvae did not develop aggregates unless they were injected with brain homogenate containing fibrillar , pathogenic human Tau species . In those cases , the biosensor larvae developed an abundant number of aggregates . Overall , these data confirm the ability of our biosensor model to detect pathogenic Tau species in vivo . We reasoned that if the Tau biosensor larvae are faithfully reflecting Tau proteostasis concepts in vivo , then this could be revealed via inhibition of the proteasome with MG-132 . Following injection of mouse brain homogenate containing human Tau fibrils , applying the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 substantially enhanced the percentage of larvae bearing Tau4R-GFP+ inclusions in the brain  , relative to equivalent larvae without MG-132  . It was striking that the zebrafish Tau biosensor was robustly able to discriminate brain homogenates that were burdened with human Tau aggregates versus those that were not . To verify that the formation of GFP+ puncta in zebrafish can be seeded by a protein-only injection , we delivered synthetic human Tau protein  . After confirming the recombinant Tau proteins were appropriately fibrillized via EM  , we delivered them by intraventricular injections as described above . Similar to previous data with brain homogenate , the larvae that were injected with synthetic Tau fibrils developed inclusions proximal to the brain ventricles as well as along the spinal cord at 3–6 dpi . The abundance of Tau aggregates along the spinal cord was significantly higher in larvae injected with the synthetic Tau fibrils compared to larvae injected with Tau monomers or to the non-injected group   . The distribution of larvae based on the number of Tau aggregates they accumulated also supported these findings  . In sum , the Tau4R biosensor deployed in the CNS of larval zebrafish was able to report Tau species , and further revealed the prion-like induction of tauopathy via protein-only seeding in vivo . We next sought to deploy our Tau biosensor in a tauopathy model that enables higher throughput than can be achieved with intraventricular injection methods . Although a few methods have been reported to induce TBI in adult zebrafish that are comparable to mammalian TBI methods  , no such methods were available for zebrafish larvae  . Here , we introduce and validate a simple and inexpensive method to induce TBI in zebrafish larvae . Investigating TBI in larvae offers substantial benefits regarding experimental throughput , economy , accessibility of drug and genetic interventions , and bioethics . To assess if our method faithfully induced TBI similar to injury from pressure waves , we examined multiple markers known to be associated with blast-induced TBI , including cell death , hemorrhage , blood flow abnormalities , and tauopathy  . We evaluated TBI-induced hemorrhage via the use of Tg  larvae that have red fluorescence in their blood cells  . Further , approximately half of the TBI larvae showed abnormalities in blood flow including a temporary reduction or complete absence of blood circulation  , consistent with abnormalities detected in rodent TBI models  . Subsequently , we assessed apoptosis in the TBI larvae , observing that our TBI method induced cell death in larvae as detected by staining for active Caspase-3  . The number of active-Caspase-3-positive cells was negligible in the control groups compared to a mean of 62 apoptotic cells in TBI larvae  and 75  in positive-control-larvae  . These data all align well with existing animal models of TBI with respect to mimicking characteristic features of human TBI , and support the effectiveness of our method in inducing TBI in larval zebrafish . Post-traumatic seizures are one of the most frequent conditions associated with traumatic brain injuries and , despite being prevalent , remain poorly understood in TBI patients  . Post-traumatic seizures were overtly apparent in a subset  of zebrafish larvae after they were subjected to TBI . We quantified the latter seizure activity via behavioral tracking software  and determined that larvae subjected to TBI exhibited seizure-like activity that was significantly higher than the control group   . We subjected our allele of Tg  ua3144 larvae  to TBI , coincident with brief application of photoconverting light  . Notably , this combination of newly introduced methods of TBI being integrated with CaMPARI optogenetic methods  offers the rare ability to assess neural activity on un-restrained  subjects during TBI . In sum , our data reveal a substantial burst of neural activity occurs during TBI , and that zebrafish larvae exposed to TBI subsequently exhibit a significantly higher propensity for spontaneous seizures . After validating that our method was able to induce TBI upon zebrafish larvae , we next asked whether TBI induces Tau aggregates in our Tau biosensor model . Initially , we evaluated if our TBI method would induce aggregation of fluorescent proteins in models expressing GFP alone or other biosensor proteins such as SOD1-GFP  . Following TBI , and regardless of injury intensity , no GFP+ aggregates were detected in these controls  . Further , our Tau4R-GFP fish additionally express an unmodified GFP variant in the active heart muscle , and this robust GFP showed no sign of aggregation following TBI . Remarkably , in these same individual Tau4R-GFP larvae we detected Tau4R-GFP biosensor GFP+ puncta in both brains and spinal cords following TBI  . The heaviest weight  induced significantly more Tau aggregates versus the control group or the group with the 30 g weight  . We observed an increase in the abundance of Tau aggregates when the weight was dropped multiple times during 1 day , or over 3 consecutive days , but this increase was not statistically significant  . The GFP+ Tau aggregates formed in the brain region following TBI tend to form fused shapes  reminiscent of the spontaneous aggregates described above . Multi-day monitoring of individual larvae  revealed variation in formation of Tau aggregates amongst individual TBI larvae . We monitored the abundance of Tau aggregates within individual fish over time following TBI and found that the average tauopathy significantly increased compared to the control group ( p=0 . Analysis of distribution of larvae binned into the number of Tau4R-GFP+ puncta at 3 dpti showed that more larvae developed Tau4R-GFP+ puncta compared to the control group  . Considering that many of the larvae subjected to TBI formed Tau4R-GFP+ puncta in the brain that had a fused pattern  , we focused on Tau aggregates that formed on the spinal cord as their abundance could be most efficiently quantified compared to aggregates that formed in the brain . Considering the clinical prominence of post-traumatic seizures following TBI , and the suggested role of cell stress and increased neural activity in promoting protein misfolding diseases  , we speculated that post-traumatic seizures might form a causal link between TBI and subsequent tauopathy . Following TBI , some larvae exhibited seizure-like movements , while some did not seem to move abnormally relative to untreated fish  . We sorted the larvae subjected to TBI into groups exhibiting the seizure-like behavior and those that displayed no overtly abnormal movement . Larvae exhibiting seizure-like behavior after TBI went on to develop abundant spinal cord aggregates  in comparison to larvae that showed no seizure-like response to TBI  . To assess the hypothesis that seizure activity has a causal role in increasing the abundance of Tau aggregates in our TBI model , we employed convulsant and anti-convulsant drugs to modulate the seizure intensity and in vivo neural activity . Our hypothesis predicted that decreasing seizure-like activity following TBI would reduce tauopathy . Indeed , applying the anti-convulsant drug Retigabine  , that opens voltage-gated potassium channels  , resulted in a significant decrease in the abundance of GFP+ puncta  with many TBI larvae not developing any Tau4R-GFP aggregates  . Kainate did not increase Tau4R-GFP+ puncta in the absence of TBI . Co-application of kainate and retigabine following TBI produced an abundance of Tau4R-GFP+ puncta that was indistinguishable from larvae receiving TBI without pharmacology  . TBI-induced cell death was likewise correlated with the intensity of post-traumatic seizures . Co-application of kainate and retigabine following TBI increased or decreased , respectively , the abundance of cell death in a manner coordinate with the tauopathy  . Overall , convulsant and anti-convulsant drugs acted to increase and decrease TBI-induced tauopathy , respectively . To further examine increased seizure activity after TBI , we applied 4-aminopyridine  , a Kv channel blocker and convulsant drug . We predicted that raising the level of seizure activity would elevate tauopathy abundance in our TBI model , aligning with our observations following application of kainate  . Surprisingly , higher doses of 4-AP consistently abrogated the appearance of Tau aggregates . Treating TBI larvae with 200 or 800 μM of 4-AP for a prolonged period  significantly inhibited the abundance of Tau4R-GFP+ puncta in the TBI group  . Analysis of the distribution of larvae linked to the number of Tau aggregates supported this finding with no zebrafish larvae developing aggregates in groups treated with 4-AP  . To evaluate if the time at which treatments are administered plays a role in this unexpected result , we treated larvae with 200 μM 4-AP at earlier time points , specifically during TBI and 1 . We found that administering 4-AP during different time windows relative to the TBI did not measurably alter the inhibitory action of 4-AP on the abundance of Tau aggregates  . We found that larvae receiving TBI and 4-AP continued to exhibit a lack of Tau aggregates when co-treated with anti-convulsant retigabine   . This suggested that high doses of 4-AP block the formation of Tau aggregates via a mechanism independent of its convulsant activity . To examine if the inhibitory actions of 4-AP on the abundance of Tau aggregates in our TBI model is consistent with an endocytosis inhibition mechanism , we treated our tau biosensor larvae post-traumatic injury with Pyrimidyn-7  , a potent dynamin inhibitor that is known to block endocytosis  , and analyzed the propagation of Tau pathology by quantifying the number of Tau inclusions . Similar to the findings with 4-AP , P7 treatments significantly inhibited the formation of Tau4R-GFP+ puncta in TBI larvae   . We obtained similar results in which Dyngo 4a treatments significantly reduced tauopathy in our TBI model  . To determine if these results are applicable to human tau , we induced traumatic brain injury on double-transgenic larvae expressing both human Tau  and our Tau biosensor reporter , followed by treatment with either 4-AP or P7 . Apart from the untreated control , both groups treated with 4-AP or P7 exhibited a noticeable reduction in abundance of Tau aggregates . These findings confirmed the ability of 4-AP and dynamin inhibitors of reducing human Tau aggregates in our TBI larvae . It is well established that TBI induces tauopathy , and over the past decade , numerous in vitro and in vivo studies have supported that Tau proteins possess prion-like properties . Our zebrafish models allow us to study the progression and spread of TBI-induced tauopathy longitudinally in living animals , an experimental advantage that is unmatched among TBI animal models . Regarding TBI , a large knowledge gap exists regarding how Tau seeds are released and/or internalized by adjacent  cells - indeed the prion-like properties of Tau species following TBI had not been assessed until very recently  . The recent revelation that most TBI patients , whether they suffered from single or repetitive brain trauma , all exhibited Tau pathology similar to CTE  suggests all forms of TBI might incorporate tauopathies . Our mode of TBI on larval zebrafish entails a pressure wave that most closely mimics a blast injury  , but the etiology leading to tauopathy probably has many similarities regardless of the mode of the initiating TBI . We inspected the role of seizure activity and/or neuronal excitability , as well as the role of dynamin-dependent endocytosis , during the progression of tauopathy after TBI . We focussed our attention on seizure activity in part because seizures frequently occur in TBI patients following blast traumatic injury  . We hypothesized that neuronal excitability and seizure activity after TBI can play a role in accelerating the wide dissemination of Tau pathology . The first approach was to engineer a novel in vivo Tau biosensor model in zebrafish that can visualize pathological Tau spreading and accumulation within the intact and vibrant CNS . The Tau biosensor zebrafish express human tau4R-GFP reporter protein , and we confirmed its ability to detect Tau seeds from various sources both in vivo and in vitro , similar to previously engineered in vitro models  . Our second approach was to introduce and optimize an elegantly simple technique to cause pressure-wave induced TBI , similar to human blast TBI , in zebrafish larvae . Recently , post-traumatic seizures were also observed in adult zebrafish when TBI was delivered via focused ultrasound  offering an additional opportunity for zebrafish to be an important tool and bridge organism in the field of neurotrauma . The post-traumatic seizures apparent in our TBI model led us to consider the neural events occurring during the TBI , and their potential bearing on the correlation between neural activity and tauopathy . Whether this occurs in different types of TBI , like blast TBI , was unexamined . To address this , we performed TBI on larval zebrafish expressing CaMPARI , a genetically encoded optogenetic reporter of neural activity . This allowed us to quantify the CNS activity that had occurred during TBI , by characterizing the ratio of red:green fluorescent emission using confocal microscopy after the TBI injury was completed . Here , we revealed for the first time a snapshot of neurons becoming active at the moment of TBI . Our results demonstrated an increase in neuronal excitability upon TBI , which may contribute to the frequency of post-traumatic seizures observed in our model , other blast TBI models and TBI patients  . Notably , the subsequent Tau4R-GFP aggregates were also most prominent in this hindbrain region , and while this could be coincidental , or perhaps an artefact of a hidden differential Tau4R-GFP abundance , it is also possibly a result of increased neural activity . Regarding the etiology of tauopathy subsequent to TBI , the CaMPARI quantification provided us important validation that neural activity was substantively impacted by TBI , complementing the evidence of increased seizure-like movements . Indeed , we had noted the occurrence of post-traumatic seizures in most of our TBI samples , which is in agreement with the prevalence of seizures in blast TBI patients and TBI rodent models  . However , whether post-traumatic seizures contribute to prion-like spreading of Tau pathology  was unknown . Beyond TBI , several investigations have supported an association between Tau pathology and seizures  . Studies on epileptic human temporal structure revealed accumulation of Tau aggregates  . Interestingly , the presence of tau deposits in epileptic patients and the similarity of its pathology to CTE suggest a conceivable role for seizures influencing the progression of Tau pathology in a similar manner to TBI  . Indeed , our data from the application of the convulsant kainate here support the role of post-traumatic seizure in enhancing Tau abundance and cell death in our TBI model  . This finding is in line with observations in a patient with epilepsy and a history of head injury , in which progressive Tau pathology was noted  . Intriguingly , reducing seizure activity after TBI via anti-convulsant drugs was able to significantly reduce tauopathy and cell death , providing further evidence of the relationship between seizures and tauopathy in TBI  . Thus , anti-convulsants are intriguing as a route to slowing progression of tauopathy following TBI , and it is encouraging that they are already commonly deployed to prevent post-traumatic seizures . One particular convulsant drug , 4-AP , inhibited tauopathy in our TBI model  , contrary to our hypothesis that seizure intensity is positively correlated with tauopathy following TBI . We further queried the potential role of dynamin-dependent endocytosis in the prion-like progression of Tau pathology after TBI by applying endocytosis inhibitors that target dynamin . Empirical work on human stem-cell-derived neurons has indicated that Tau aggregates are internalized via dynamin-dependent endocytosis and that blocking other endocytosis pathways independent of dynamin , such as bulk endocytosis and macropinocytosis , did not disrupt Tau uptake  . On the contrary , inhibiting dynamin significantly decreased the internalization of Tau aggregates . Our results are in line with the previously mentioned findings that show Tau progression in TBI models depends on dynamin-dependent endocytic pathways - blocking them with two different inhibitors  dramatically lessened the abundance of Tau seeds  . Hence , our findings not only provide in vivo validation of past in vitro works , but also suggest mechanisms underlying prion-like spreading of Tau seeds in TBI and CTE that could aid in developing therapeutic strategies . Our tauopathy biosensor , human Tau4R-GFP , was deployed in vivo and uniquely able to detect significant increases  in the abundance of Tau aggregates following various insults and treatments , typically in a dose-dependent manner and in harmony with expected trends . Considering this success , it remains perplexing and intriguing that a subset of larvae exhibit GFP+ Tau puncta despite receiving no known tauopathy-inducing insults . It remains to be determined if our biosensor can self-aggregate in some situations , or if these aggregates represent transient moments of imbalance in the proteostatic cycle of Tau aggregation and clearance . Regardless , future work will also need to characterize the biochemistry and biophysics of the human Tau inclusions in zebrafish compared to patients or rodent models . Further , it remains to be established if the mechanisms we reveal are ubiquitous across the various forms of TBI: our model fills a gap by supplying a rare ‘closed head’ TBI model  . At this point , we are left to assume that the cellular and physiological aspects of TBI we consider here are sufficiently similar across all classes of TBI , and thus the knowledge gleaned may be variably applicable . Zebrafish larvae , fostered by appropriate innovations , now offer a potent complement both to rodent models of TBI and to cellular models of tauopathy . Our engineered fish allowed us to reveal post-traumatic seizures as a druggable mechanistic link between TBI and the prion-like progression of tauopathy . To move the Tau4R-GFP reporter above into a vector appropriate for cell culture , BamHI and Xhol nuclease restriction enzymes were employed to remove the Tau4R-GFP fragment from pDest tol2CG2 . Tau4R-GFP . The Tau4R-GFP fragment was subcloned into the pCDNA3 . Tau4R-GFP plasmid 24 hr after plating using lipofectamine 2000 reagents according to the manufacturer’s guidelines . Tau4R-GFP was diluted in 250 μl of Opti-MEM media  . For zebrafish brain lysate preparation , the brains of adult zebrafish were dissected . Larvae were fixed overnight in 4% paraformaldehyde , either 1 day after being subjected to TBI or following the subsequent application of drugs as indicated . Larvae were washed with 0 . Synthetic human Tau protein  was purchased as a lyophilized powder  and resuspended in ddH2O at a concentration of 2 mg/ml . PTA-purified brain homogenates or synthetic Tau fibrils  were applied on the top of the grid for 1 min . Polyclonal Tau4R-GFP cells were plated at 2 × 105 per well in 24-well plates . To induce TBI , 10–12 unanesthetized larvae  were loaded into a 10-ml syringe with 1 ml of E3 media . Once larvae were subjected to the TBI , they were moved back to a petri dish with fresh media and maintained for further analysis . Abnormalities of blood flow and circulation resulted from TBI was detected 5 to 10 mins after larvae were subjected to TBI . The blood flow in the tail area of zebrafish larvae , either those subjected to TBI or uninjured controls , was recorded using Leica DM2500 LED optical microscope . Briefly , control larvae or larvae subjected to TBI using 65 g weight , were placed individually in wells of 96-well plates . The locomotor and seizure activity were assessed 40 min after the TBI through EthoVision XT-11 . 5 cm from the syringe , while being subjected to TBI using the 300 g weight as described above . Following this photoconversion of CaMPARI during TBI , larvae were anesthetized in 0 . The hindbrain area was analyzed , as it was the brain region most responsive to TBI . Tau biosensor larvae were treated with 20 μM of the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 at 2dpf , following injections with brain homogenate from Tg human Tau mice . For Kainic acid or kainate treatment  , the doses  were selected based on previous use of KA in zebrafish larvae  , and added within 6 hr after TBI . For 4-aminopyridine  , one of two doses of 4-AP  were added either six or 24 hr after TBI , as indicated . For Retigabine  treatment , 10 μM was used to treat TBI larvae beginning 6 hr after TBI . Larvae that were subjected to TBI were treated within six hours following the injury with 3 μM of P7 . For some experiments , the ‘Tau biosensor’ transgenic zebrafish were bred to a separate Tg line that express human four repeat TAU Tg  Pt406 throughout the zebrafish CNS  . 
We believe that , in many cases , cross-subject variations in the spatial configuration of functional brain regions are being interpreted as changes in functional connectivity . Our findings reveal variability in the spatial topography of functional regions across subjects , and suggest that this variability is the primary driver of cross-subject trait variability in correlation-based FC measures obtained via group-level rfMRI parcellation approaches . Of particular interest is the ability of network matrices to explain cross-subject variability in behaviour and performance on psychometric tests . Here , we replicated this previous work in a larger subject sample  , and adopt CCA to determine which key aspect of rfMRI data is uniquely associated with behaviour . The first stage of a dual regression approach involves multiple spatial regression of group ICA maps into each preprocessed individual dataset to obtain subject-specific timeseries; the second stage is a multiple temporal regression of these stage one timeseries into the same preprocessed dataset to obtain subject-specific spatial maps . Note , dual regression is , to some extent , expected to underestimate subject-specific spatial variability because it involves post-hoc regressions of a group-level set of spatial maps , which are unlikely to be an accurate model for the data of individual subjects . More recently , several studies have developed more thorough characterisations of the patterns of spatial variability in network topography across subjects   . Another approach that aims to achieve a more accurate subject-specific description of this spatial variability is PROFUMO , which simultaneously estimates subject and group probabilistic functional mode  maps and network matrices  . Specifically , PROFUMO is a matrix factorisation model that decomposes data into estimates of subject-specific spatial maps , time courses , and amplitudes using a variational Bayesian approach with both spatial and temporal priors that seek to optimise for both spatial map sparsity and temporal dynamics consistent with haemodynamically regularised neural activity  . PROFUMO adopts a hierarchical approach by iteratively optimising subject and group estimates  , and is therefore expected to more accurately capture subject-specific spatial variability than does dual regression . In the present study , we show that the spatial variability across subjects captured in PFMs is strongly associated with behaviour . We then use simulations that manipulate aspects of the data such that , for example , only cross-subject spatial variability is present in the data  to investigate whether these differences reflect meaningful cross-subject information and drive edge estimates for several common FC approaches . CCA scores for each subject are obtained for the behavioural and fMRI-derived measures  , which represent the subject’s position along the population continuum for the latent CCA variable  . Correlating the behavioural subject weights  across the different CCA instances in Figure 1 shows that a similar behavioural mode is obtained from the independent instances of CCA  . The results show that spatial features such as PFM subject spatial maps and subject task contrast maps are strongly associated with behaviour . Also note that network matrices obtained by the HCP_MMP1 . 0 parcellation are more predictive of behaviour than are PFM network matrices . In theory , true network coupling information can be manifested along a continuum ranging from spatial maps to network matrices . However , the results in Figure 1 show that this CCA mode of population covariation is significantly present in both spatial maps and network matrices for both low- and high-dimensional decompositions  . Therefore , the potential role of dimensionality is not sufficient to explain the common information present in spatial maps , timeseries amplitudes , and network matrices . However , residual cross-subject spatial variability is still present in the HCP data after the registration to a common surface atlas space  . In line with this , approaches which are expected to better identify residual subject spatial variability  show strong correspondence between spatial variability and behaviour/life-factor measures . To better understand what spatial features represent behaviourally relevant cross-subject information , we visually explored what aspects of the PFM spatial maps contributed to the CCA result in Figure 1 by calculating representative maps at extremes of the CCA mode of population covariation  . To this end , we generated simulated datasets based on the original PFM subjects and/or group spatial maps and timeseries . By holding either the individual  subjects’ spatial maps or the network matrices fixed to the group average we eliminated specific forms of underlying subject variability from the simulated data  . Previous simulation results have shown that PROFUMO is able to accurately estimate spatial maps and network matrices in the presence of cross-subject variability in spatial topography , relative strength of subregions , and between-mode connectivity  . The aim of the simulation analyses was to determine which features in the rfMRI data are likely to be most strongly reflected in network matrices estimated from rfMRI data . Timeseries were extracted from both the simulated and original datasets , and network matrices were estimated . Each simulated dataset was assessed using three metrics:  comparing subject-specific simulated and original network matrices  ,  comparing cross-subject variability in the simulated and original network matrices  , and  determining how much of the cross-subject variability in simulated and original network matrices is behaviourally informative using CCA  . The results  show that , when the subject-varying aspects of the simulations were exclusively driven by spatial changes across subjects  , up to 62%  of the cross-subject variance present in the network matrices obtained from the original data was regenerated . Hence , this finding reveals that very similar network matrices can be obtained for any individual subject even if the only aspect of the rfMRI that is varying across subjects is the topographic information in PFM spatial maps . In addition , the variance that can be explained by spatial maps is behaviourally relevant; the CCA results were similarly strong  from simulated network matrices driven purely by spatial changes , compared with those obtained from the original dataset . Given the complex information present in PFM spatial maps , the effect of spatial information on network matrices can result from cross-subject variability in:  network size ,  relative strength of regions within a given network , or  size and spatial location of functional regions . We performed two further tests to distinguish these influences by thresholding and binarising the subject-specific spatial maps used to create the simulated data . The results presented above show that a large proportion of the variance in estimated network matrices is also represented in spatial topography . This suggests either that cross-subject information is represented in both the coupling strength between neural populations and in the ‘true’ underlying spatial topography , or that edge estimates obtained from rfMRI data primarily reflect cross-subject spatial variability  . To test these hypotheses further , we investigated the unique information contained in spatial maps and network matrices using a set of 15 ICA basis maps derived from HCP task contrast maps  . The equivalence between group- and subject-level contrasts  means that any combination of group-level contrasts is equally valid as a combination at the subject-level , but with the advantage that the resulting subject maps will be faithful to the precise location of functional regions that the subject-specific contrast maps capture . Hence , subject-based task basis maps are the most accurate description of subject-specific locations of functional regions , at least with respect to those regions identifiable from the range of tasks used . To investigate the implications of these task-localised maps on typical rfMRI analyses , either group-based task basis maps or subject-based task basis maps were entered into a dual regression analysis against subjects’ resting-state fMRI data to obtain network matrices  and rfMRI-based spatial maps  for each subject  . Subsequently , CCA was performed to determine how well each of the group-based and subject-task-based rfMRI maps and network matrices was able to predict behavioural variability . Furthermore , a ‘partial CCA’ was performed to characterise the unique variance that task rfMRI maps carry over and above network matrices , and vice versa . Here , we regressed any variance explained by network matrices out of the spatial maps prior to running the ‘partial CCA’ to determine the unique information contained in spatial maps  . The results from the CCAs against behavioural measures show that subject-specific spatial maps  capture more behavioural information than network matrices  , consistent with the PFM spatial results presented in Figure 1 . The full CCA result is marginally stronger  for group-task-based rfMRI spatial maps compared with subject-task-based rfMRI spatial maps . None of the partial CCA results for network matrices reach significance , suggesting that network matrices do not contain any unique trait-level information that is not also captured by spatial variability . Note that dual regression maps derived from both group-task-based and subject-task-based templates capture unique subject-specific spatial variation in the partial CCA results , consistent with significant CCA results for ICA25 and ICA200 in Figure 1 . Importantly , subject-task-based rfMRI network matrices explain the behavioural data considerably less well than group-based task-rfMRI network matrices  , confirming that spatial information is a significant factor in estimated network matrices . Hence , subject spatial variability is more uniquely represented in the spatial information for subject-task-based estimates , and therefore does not filter through into the network matrices  . Taken together , these results show that , while network matrices obtained from dual regression against group-level maps do contain behaviourally relevant cross-subject information , this can be almost completely explained by variability in spatial topographical features across subjects  . Hence , dual regression network matrices  apparently contain little unique cross-subject information regarding coupling strength that is not also reflected in spatial topographical organisation . However , it is possible that network matrices obtained using parcellation methods and timeseries extraction approaches that are better able to capture subject-specific spatial variability  do contain unique cross-subject information; further research is needed to test this possibility . Our results indicate that spatial variation in the topography of functional regions across individuals is strongly associated with behaviour  . In addition , network matrices  reflect little or no unique cross-subject information that is not also captured by spatial topographical variability  . Specifically , we show that up to 62% of the variance in rfMRI-derived network matrices  can be explained purely by spatial variability . Our findings are consistent with previous research that has highlighted the presence of structured cross-subject spatial variance in both functional and anatomical networks  . Therefore , the presence of behaviourally relevant cross-subject variance in maps of functional  activation in itself is not surprising . However , the fact that these variations in spatial topographical features capture a more direct and unique representation of subject variability than temporal correlations between regions defined by group parcellation approaches  , was unexpected . The implication of this finding is that the cross-subject information represented in commonly adopted ‘connectivity fingerprints’ largely reflects spatial variability in the location of functional regions across individuals , rather than variability in coupling strength  . Specifically , our partial CCA results  show that network matrices  contain little unique trait-level cross-subject information that is not also reflected in the spatial topographical organisation of functional regions . Therefore , PFMs represent connectivity information through complex interactions between amplitude and shape in the spatial maps , and through network matrices . Our findings show that both the PROFUMO and the multimodal parcellation models successfully capture behaviourally relevant cross-subject spatial variability  , but that the precise location of where this spatial variability is represented overlaps only modestly between the two approaches  . For most of the results presented in this work , we estimated spatial information using functional data  . Therefore , it is possible that the degree to which spatial information may influence FC estimates varies considerably across studies , depending on the spatial alignment algorithm that was used , and the amount of subject spatial variability this has removed . com/JanineBijsterbosch/Spatial_netmat  . In order to obtain estimates of the spatial shape and size of functional networks for every subject , we decompose the HCP data into a set of probabilistic functional modes  via the PROFUMO algorithm  . In the spatial domain , the group-level parameters encode the grayordinate-wise means , variances and sparsity of the subject maps , while in the temporal domain , the group-level priors constrain the subject-level network matrices  . PROFUMO was run on the rfMRI data from all 820 subjects with a dimensionality of 50 PFMs . 01 for the ICA 25 , 200 and PFM data  . 23 for HCP_MMP1 . 0 results . Lastly , the subject spatial maps obtained from stage 2 of a dual regression analysis were used . Similarly , for the PROFUMO decomposition , the PFM amplitudes , subject spatial maps and timeseries were used . For the HCP_MMP1 . 0 spatial results , either group-level or subject-specific node parcellations were used  . The subject-specific parcellations contain missing nodes  in some subjects  . Before performing CCA , missing nodes were accounted for by estimating the subject-by-subject covariance matrix one element at a time , ignoring any missing nodes for any pair of subjects . To create the inputs to the CCA , a set of nuisance variables were regressed out of both the behavioural measures and the amplitudes , network matrices and spatial maps , as done in  . Subject covariance matrices were subsequently estimated for the amplitudes , network matrices and for all spatial maps  . Then , a singular value decomposition was performed on the subject covariance matrices and the first 100 eigenvectors were entered into the CCA  . In addition to reporting the CCA results for the strength of the canonical correlation between imaging and non-imaging measures and the associated p-value  , we also report the correlation between the CCA subject weights and the weights for the ICA 200 partial network matrices  . The rU-Uica correlation we report is the maximum correlation found between the first CCA mode from the ICA 200 partial network matrices , and any of the 100 modes of population covariation obtained for the comparison CCA result  . Confidence intervals for CCA results in Table 1 were obtained using surrogate data for both the brain-based CCA input matrix and the behaviour CCA input matrix . For visualisation and interpretation purposes , we created videos of the spatial variability along the axis of the behavioural CCA mode of population covariation . For this , we took the U resulting from the CCA between PFM spatial maps and behaviour , and created a linearly spaced vector that spans just over the full range of U  . This sequence of spatial maps is an approximation to the spatial variability that is encoded along the previously reported positive-negative axis . The two rfMRI parcellation methods included in Supplementary file 1b  explicitly aim to capture cross-subject variability in the spatial location of functional regions . The subject spatial maps estimated by both methods are strongly associated with cross-subject behavioural variability  . To this end , we averaged CCA subject weights obtained from two separate CCA results  . These averaged subject weights were subsequently correlated against fractional surface area , and against subject-specific PFM and HCP_MMP1 . In order to create simulated datasets for each subject , we took the outer product between PFM spatial maps and timeseries . Data from each run  was processed separately through the simulation pipeline , including the following steps: The PFM subject spatial maps contain a relatively complex set of information . In order to exclude these potential connectivity-related aspects of the spatial maps and isolate the role of spatial shape , we simplified the spatial maps for some of the simulations presented . For this , the spatial maps were thresholded at a very liberal threshold of 1  and binarised . Using a fixed threshold across subjects retains cross-subject variability in the size of networks . Given that variability between subjects is of primary interest in rfMRI research , this analysis aimed to directly compare the cross-subject variability present in a range of measures obtained from the original data . Between-subject correlation matrices were calculated from network matrices  , from PFM amplitudes and from spatial maps  . These subject by subject correlation matrices were reshaped after discarding the diagonal , and full and partial correlations were calculated between the subject correlation matrices  . To obtain a basis set of spatial maps based on task contrast data , we performed a spatial ICA  on the concatenated group-averaged task contrast maps  . Spatial ICA was performed on the group-average task contrasts maps to avoid the correspondence problem that would arise if ICA were applied separately to individual subject task contrast maps . Dual regression analysis  was run against subject resting state data to obtain timeseries and maps . CCA against behaviour was performed separately on the resulting network matrices and spatial maps as described above . Additionally , partial CCA was performed to determine the unique information contained in network matrices and in spatial maps . For this , any variance explained by network matrices was regressed out of the spatial maps and vice versa  , before running the ‘partial CCA’ . Specifically , the 100 eigenvectors used as the input matrix to the CCA  for partial network matrices were regressed out of the 100 eigenvectors for the spatial maps before running CCA , or conversely the 100 eigenvectors for spatial maps were regressed out of the 100 eigenvectors for the network matrices before running CCA . 
Replacement of the canonical TFIID-TBP complex with TRF3/TBP2 was reported to be required for activation of muscle-gene expression . The lack of a developmental phenotype in TBP2 null mice prompted further analysis to determine whether TBP2 deficiency can compromise adult myogenesis . We show here that TBP2 null mice have an intact regeneration potential upon injury and that TBP2 is not expressed in established C2C12 muscle cell or in primary mouse MuSCs . While TFIID subunits and TBP are downregulated during myoblast differentiation , reduced amounts of these proteins form a complex that is detectable on promoters of muscle genes and is essential for their expression . This evidence demonstrates that TBP2 does not replace TBP during muscle differentiation , as previously proposed , with limiting amounts of TFIID-TBP being required to promote muscle-specific gene expression . The TFIID complex is composed of TATA-box binding protein  and TBP-associated factors   . Moreover , several TBP-related factors  have been identified  , expanding the repertoire and versatility of the basal transcription machinery  . In particular , it was recently suggested that during skeletal muscle differentiation , canonical TFIID is replaced by a complex consisting of TBP2  and TAF3 , which is required for activation of muscle genes  . Further work has revealed that the alternative core factor TAF3 , which is known to recognize histone H3K4me3 - a histone modification associated with active promoters  - mediates interactions between MyoD , permissive chromatin and PICs at promoters of muscle-specific genes  . Nevertheless this hypothesis has been challenged by the observation that TBP2 null  mice do not display any skeletal muscle phenotype  , indicating that TBP2 is dispensable for developmental myogenesis  . did not explore the integrity of the regeneration potential of skeletal muscles in TBP2 null mice during adult life , and thus have not ruled out the possibility that TBP2 can specifically promote the expression of muscle genes in muscle stem  cells  - the direct effectors of post-natal and adult skeletal myogenesis  . MuSCs are usually found beneath the basal lamina of unperturbed muscles in a dormant state   , but are rapidly activated upon damage to give rise to new , differentiated myofibers through extensive epigenetic reprogramming  . Two key molecular events that invariably coincide with MuSC activation and commitment toward myogenic differentiation are  the expression of skeletal muscle transcription master regulator MyoD  and  the activation of the p38 signaling  . These pathways cooperate to promote SWI/SNF-mediated chromatin remodeling and to increase levels of the active chromatin mark H3K4me3  at promoters of muscle genes  . Indeed , studies from the Rando group have revealed that in activated MuSCs the large majority of muscle gene promoters show enrichment in H3K4me3  . Collectively , the data described above suggest that the H3K4me3 chromatin mark can mediate TAF3 recruitment to MyoD-target genes in activated MuSCs . Since TAF3 has been proposed as a mediator of TBP2 recruitment to muscle gene promoters  , these data provide the rationale for investigating whether TBP2 deficiency can impair post-natal and adult skeletal myogenesis . To investigate the role of TBP2 in postnatal and adult skeletal myogenesis in vivo we assessed the muscle regeneration potential of TBP2 null mice  in response to injury . Notexin-mediated muscle injury triggers extensive muscle damage and stimulates adult muscle regeneration and post-natal myogenesis in vivo , during which damaged muscle is replaced by newly formed myofibers arising from activated MuSCs . Histological assessment of regenerating muscles showed a complete recovery of the muscle architecture , with abundant presence of centrally nucleated fibers in both wild type  and TBP2 null muscles at 12 days post injury - a time point when muscle regeneration is near completion  . Both WT and TBP2 null mice contain similar numbers of Pax7 positive MuSCs in a sub-laminar position within unperturbed muscles  . This result indicates that there are no defects in MuSC ontogenesis in the absence of Tbpl2 expression . Importantly , we detected comparable numbers of MuSCs in muscles of WT and TBP2 null mice 12 days after injury  , indicating an intact capacity of adult MuSCs to proliferate , self-renew and differentiate during ongoing muscle regeneration in the absence of TBP2 . Finally , we used Fluorescence Assisted Cell Sorting  to isolate MuSCs from skeletal muscles of WT and TBP2 null mice before and 12 days after notexin-mediated injury , and analyzed their intrinsic myogenic potential ex vivo Cultures of MuSCs from all conditions yielded a comparable number of Myosin Heavy Chain  -positive multinucleated myotubes  , demonstrating that MuSCs from TBP2 null muscles have the identical myogenic potential of MuSCs from WT mice as they can readily differentiate into myotubes with equal capacity upon exposure to differentiation conditions in vitro . Regenerative potential and differentiation of MuSCs are intact in the absence of TBP2 . Cross-sections of unperturbed  and notexin injured  muscles were histologicaly assessed by Hematoxilin/Eosin  staining to evaluate the muscle architecture 12 days post notexin-mediated injury of the muscle . Representative image of muscles analyzed from two WT and two TBP2_KO mice are presented . Representative images of cross-sections of unperturbed and of notexin injured muscles were immunolabeled with anti-laminin B2  and anti-Pax7  antibodies . Pax7-positive MuSCs  in sub-laminar position are indicated by an arrow . Muscles from two mice have been analyzed and for each point , three different areas of the muscle were taken into account . MuSCs were isolated by FACS-assisted analysis as CD45-/CD31-/Ter119-/Sca1-/CD34+/alpha7intergrin+ from unperturbed and from notexin injured  muscles . Isolated MuSCs were in vitro differentiated into myotubes , and immuno-labeled with anti-Myosin Heavy Chain  antibody  to monitor myotubes formation . Representative images of differentiated MuSCs are presented . Quantification of nuclei residing within MHC-positive differentiated MuSCs myotubes in D . Differentiation index is presented as% on nuclei within MHC-positive myotubes . 003 Our in vivo data on adult muscle regeneration , as well as the intact differentiation potential of Tbpl2-lacking MuSCs ex vivo demonstrate that TBP2 is dispensable for adult skeletal muscle differentiation . Our data demonstrating the lack of requirement of TBP2 for adult skeletal muscle regeneration prompted us to compare the RNA expression profile of Tbp and Tbpl2 genes in MuSCs isolated from skeletal muscles of wild type mouse by FACS , and in the C2C12 myogenic cell line  . Tbp expression was detected in both MuSC-derived myotubes and in C2C12 myotubes  . On the contrary , we could not detect Tbpl2 expression in myotubes derived from MuSCs or C2C12s  . Ckm RNA expression in MuSCs and in C2C12 confirms that cells were differentiated into mytubes . As a control for Tbpl2 RNA detection , we analyzed total RNA extracted from murine ovary tissue  , as previous work demonstrated the ovary-specific expression of TBP2 in mice  . Independent analysis of publicly available RNA-seq data from C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes  and of our RNA-seq data from MyoD-converted human fibroblasts , further confirmed the absence of Tbpl2 expression in skeletal myoblasts and myotubes  . TBP2 is not expressed in myotubes . RT-PCR analysis of RNA isolated from MuSC-derived myotubes , and from C2C12-derived myotubes . RNA isolated from murine ovaries was used as a control for Tbpl2 expression  . Relative expression of indicated genes is presented as a fraction of Gapdh expression . Immunoblot analysis of the whole cell lysate of C2C12 myotubes exogenously expressing murine Tbpl2 gene  or with a control plasmid . RNA expression of indicated genes after exogenous expression of TBP2 in differentiated C2C12 myotubes . Myotubes in all experiments shown in this figure were collected by careful trypsinization to avoid contamination with undifferentiated reserve cells  . RNA-seq data comparing Tbp and Tbpl2 gene expression in murine C2C12 and in human fibroblasts IMR90 converted by ectopic expression of MyoD . RNA-seq data in IMR90 fibroblasts expressing MyoD were generated in our lab  . GM_IMR90_MyoD sample represents proliferating IMR90 expressing MyoD  and DM_IMR90_MyoD sample represents IMR90 expressing MyoD and differentiated into myotubes  . Tbp  and Tbpl2  data are presented , Ckm is a marker of terminally differentiated myotubes . 005 As a further control of accuracy for detection of Tbpl2 in muscle cells , we transfected C2C12 myoblasts with a murine Tbpl2-expressing plasmid and monitored the Tbpl2 and Tbp expression in differentiated C2C12 myotubes by immunoblot analysis of total cell lysates of C2C12 myotubes and by RT-PCR analysis of RNA isolated from C2C12 myotubes  . We could detect the TBP2 protein  and Tbpl2 transcript  in C2C12 myotubes only upon ectopic expression of Tbpl2 . Importantly , the ectopic Tbpl2 expression in C2C12s did not affect the formation of myotubes and the expression levels of muscle differentiation genes , such as Myog and Ckm  . The data we present here demonstrate that Tbpl2 is not expressed during differentiation of skeletal myoblasts into myotubes . Since TBP levels were reported to be significantly decreased during differentiation of skeletal myoblasts into myotubes  , while TBP2 is absent in differentiating myotubes  , we tested whether lower amounts of TBP would be functional during muscle differentiation . We have effectively downregulated TBP protein levels in C2C12 myoblasts using an siRNA-mediated approach  , and exposed them to differentiation conditions . While C2C12s transfected with control siRNA readily differentiated into large multinucleated myotubes within 48 hr  , C2C12 myoblasts with undetectable TBP protein levels failed to differentiate  . We have quantified the differentiation index , the percentage of nuclei within myotubes of differentiated C2C12 , to illustrate better the impaired differentiation potential of C2C12 in the absence of TBP  . mRNA analysis of skeletal muscle specific genes Myog , Ckm and Acta1 demonstrates an impaired activation of the skeletal muscle program in the absence of TBP  . Thus , although TBP levels are reduced in myotubes compared to myoblasts under physiological conditions  , near complete TBP elimination impairs muscle differentiation . We conclude that TBP is required for skeletal muscle differentiation . TBP is required for myoblast differentiation into myotubes . Representative images of C2C12 myoblasts differentiation into myotubes upon TBP downregulation . TBP was downregulated using Tbp-targetting siRNA in C2C12 myoblasts . C2C12 myoblasts were differentiated into myotubes for two days , and immunolabeled with anti-Myosin Heavy Chain  antibody  to monitor myotybes formation . Quantification of nuclei residing within differentiated MHC-positive myotubes in A , represented as differentiation index . Immunoblot analysis of the whole cell lysate of C2C12 to assess the TBP protein levels after siRNA-mediated silencing of TBP . mRNA isolated from C2C12s grown in differentiation medium after siRNA-mediated downregulation of TBP was analyzed by RT-PCR for expression of skeletal muscle specific genes Myog , Ckm and Acta1 . Relative expression of indicated genes is presented as a fraction of Gapdh expression . 006 The requirement of TBP for skeletal muscle differentiation and the absence of TBP2 in skeletal myotubes suggest that the TFIID complex may be present in myogenic cells and may drive muscle gene transcription during myoblast differentiation into myotubes . To test this hypothesis we have set out to detect expression of TAF subunits of the TFIID complex in both cultured C2C12 and MuSC myoblasts and myotubes at the RNA and protein levels . We observe a downregulation of mRNA expression of the TFIID subunits TBP and TAFs in myotubes derived from both C2C12s  and from MuSCs  , compared to undifferentiated cells  . Next , we further analyzed the protein levels of TFIID subunits in myoblasts and in myotubes by immunoblot analysis  . Indeed , TFIID subunits were detected in C2C12 nuclear extracts prepared from both proliferating myoblasts and differentiated myotubes , with a concomitant downregulation of most TFIID subunits also at the protein level  , as previously observed  . To demonstrate the purity of the myoblasts and myotubes isolated in our experimental conditions , we monitored the protein expression of the cell cycle protein Cyclin D1 , which is typically expressed in myoblasts and downregulated during muscle differentiation  . We also analyzed markers of myogenic differentiation , such as Myogenin , Myosin Heavy Chain  and Actinin 3 ,  . Expression of these proteins is specific for either myoblasts  or myotubes  , and demonstrates the high purity of the cell populations used in our study , confirming that detection of TFIID subunits in myotubes is not due to contamination with undifferentiated myoblasts . TFIID complex is present in proliferating myoblasts and differentiated myotubes . Immunoblot analysis from nuclear extracts was used to determine protein levels of TFIID subunits TBP , TAF1 , TAF2 , TAF4 , TAF6 , TAF10 , TAF12 expressed in proliferating myoblasts  and differentiated myotubes  . Myoblast-specific expression of Cyclin D1 and myotube-specific expression of muscle markers Myogenin , MHC and Actinin 3 are used as markers of C2C12 differentiation . Immunoprecipitation of endogenous TBP from C2C12 nuclear extract results in co-immunoprecipitation of TAF4 and TAF6 subunits of TFIID in both myoblasts  and myotubes  . 10–55% glycerol gradient size fractionation assay monitors co-fractionation of TFIID subunits TBP , TAF4 and TAF6 in high molecular weight fractions with a signal peaking in fractions corresponding to 0 . 6–1 MDa in both myoblasts  and myotubes  . Evaluation of TFIID subunit expression on RNA level during C2C12 and Satellite cells  differentiation . Reverse Transcription - PCR  analysis of RNA isolated from proliferating and differentiated  C2C12 and  Satellite cells  . Myotubes were collected by careful trypsinization  . 008 Next we analyzed the physical association between TBP and TAFs , as well as the integrity of the TFIID complex in C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes . Immunoprecipitation of endogenous TBP from nuclear extract prepared from C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes demonstrated an association of mTBP with mTAF4 and mTAF6 core subunits of TFIID in both proliferating and differentiated C2C12s  , further demonstrating the presence of the TFIID complex in myoblasts as well as in myotubes . Size fractionation of nuclear extracts from C2C12 myoblasts or myotubes by glycerol gradient centrifugation revealed the presence of TFIID subunits TBP , TAF4 and TAF6 in a high molecular weight fraction of about 0 . 6–1 MDa , thus detecting the TFIID complex in both myoblasts and myotubes  , at the same size previously described in human HeLa cells  . Altogether , our results are contrary to previously reported data  and demonstrate that the TFIID complex is not replaced by TBP2 upon myogenic differentiation . The requirement of TBP for skeletal muscle differentiation prompted us to further analyze the dynamics of the PIC assembly on muscle promoters during C2C12 myoblast-to-myotube differentiation . Upon exposure of myoblasts to differentiation cues , we detected recruitment of TBP and RNA polymerase II phosphorylated on Serine 5 of its carboxy-terminal domain CTD  , the transcription initiating form of RNAPII  , on muscle gene promoters regulated by MyoD  . TBP and RNAPII-S5P were not detected on these promoters in proliferating myoblasts , when the muscle genes are inactive  , further supporting the evidence that TBP drives MyoD-mediated activation of muscle-specific gene transcription during muscle differentiation . TBP and RNAPII-S5P were present on the constitutively active Gapdh promoter in myoblasts and myotubes , but not on transcriptionally silent loci such as the Sox2 promoter and the Igh enhancer  . Thus , our data demonstrate the direct involvement of TBP in nucleating PIC assembly at MyoD-regulated skeletal muscle promoters during muscle differentiation . TBP is recruited to muscle genes upon muscle differentiation . Chromatin Immunoprecipitation  assay in proliferating C2C12 myoblasts and differentiated C2C12 myotubes monitors recruitment of TBP and RNAPII-S5P components of PIC at promoters of skeletal muscle genes Myog , Acta1 , Ttn , Pdlim3 , Mylpf and Mybph . 009 In this work , we demonstrate that TBP , but not TBP2 , is the essential component of the PIC that promotes muscle gene expression in differentiated skeletal muscles . We found that TBP2 is not expressed in myotubes derived from either C2C12 myoblasts , nor from primary mouse MuSCs . Consistently , TBP2-deficient mice displayed an intact regeneration potential , and MuSCs isolated from TBP2-deficient muscles differentiated into myotubes with the same efficiency as wild type MuSCs . This evidence firmly supports the conclusion that TBP2 does not replace TBP during muscle differentiation , as previously proposed by Deato et al . We have observed downregulation of TFIID subunits at both the RNA and protein levels in differentiated myotubes , compared to proliferating myoblasts , as has previously been reported  . Recently , a mechanism for ubiquitination-mediated downregulation of TBP protein in skeletal myotubes was reported  . Therefore , the plausible scenario in skeletal muscle specific transcription is that limited TFIID helps to restrict the assembly of the transcription competent PIC at a selected subset of muscle specific genes . Our findings that TBP/TFIID is functional in muscle progenitors and their differentiated progeny are in agreement with earlier studies showing that TBP was able to bind the MyoD promoter in a TATA-dependent manner  . It has been also shown that MyoD efficiently stimulated TFIID-dependent basal transcription  . Moreover , an endogenous interaction between MyoD and TBP in both myoblasts and myotubes was demonstrated , and in myotubes , MyoD and components of PIC TBP and TFIIB were found to be recruited to the proximal promoter of the alpha-sarcoglycan muscle gene promoter  . The relevance of TBP-mediated activation of MyoD target genes has been recently emphasized by the finding that large polyglutamine  repeats in TBP causes muscle degeneration , by reducing the expression of muscle-specific genes , due to a decreased association of TBP with MyoD  . This finding reiterates the importance of clarifying the identity of the proteins that compose the core promoter basal machinery required for muscle gene transcription in differentiating muscles , further extending the related implications to the pathogenesis of human muscular disorders . C57/BL6 TBP2_KO  mice were described previously  . The mouse colony was maintained by breeding heterozygous females TBP2+/- with heterozygous males TBP2+/- . Acute injury and muscle regeneration were induced in TBP2 null mice or in the wild type  littermates by intramuscular injection of 10 µl of 10 μg/ml notexin  into the tibialis anterior  , gastrocnemius and quadriceps muscles . Muscles were snap frozen in liquid nitrogen-cooled isopentane and cut transversally using a Leica CM 3050 S cryostat . Muscle regeneration was evaluated histologically on 10 µm cryo-sections of muscles . For Hematoxylin and Eosin staining  , 10 µm muscle cryo-sections were stained in hematoxylin for 3 min and eosin Y for 2 min , according to the instructions . For Pax7 immunofluorescence experiments , 10 µm muscle cryosections were fixed in 1 . To avoid non-specific binding , muscle sections were blocked with 20% goat serum  in PBS . Satellite cells were isolated from hind limb muscles of WT and TBP null mice , either unperturbed or 12 days post acute injury by fluorescence-activated cell sorting  , as previously described  . Hind limb muscles were mechanically minced and enzymatically digested in HBSS with Mg2+ and Ca2+  containing 0 . After five days of culture , satellite cells were shifted to differentiation media containing DMEM High glucose  , 2% Horse serum  and ITS liquid media supplement  for an additional 3 days . Cultured differentiated Satellite cells were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 15 min and permeabilized with 0 . Secondary anti-mouse antibody coupled to Alexa Fluor 488  was used to detect MHC signal in myotubes . For differentiation , C2C12 cells were grown to 90% confluence and shifted to differentiation medium  DMEM high glucose containing 2% horse serum and ITS Liquid Media Supplement for two days . Proliferating myoblasts were collected by scraping , while differentiated myotubes were collected by careful trypsinization with 0 . 05% Trypsin-EDTA  to avoid contamination of myotubes by reserve cells  . Two days post-transfection , when C2C12 myoblasts were 90% confluent , cells were shifted to a differentiation medium  DMEM high glucose containing 2% horse serum and ITS Liquid Media Supplement for two days . Differentiated myotubes were collected for RNA and protein analysis by careful trypsinization  as described above . C2C12 cells were transfected by forward transfection with 80 nM siRNA against TBP gene  or non-targeting siRNA  using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX  according the manufacturer's instructions . Two days post transfection , 90% confluent cells were shifted to differentiation media  containing 2% horse serum with ITS supplement . Cells were collected after two days of differentiation in DM for further analysis by immunoblot and for RNA analysis . RNA from C2C12 cells was extracted using RNeasy kit  and the RNA from satellite cells  was extracted using miRNeasy Micro kit  following the manufacturer’s protocol . Secondary anti-mouse antibody coupled to Alexa Fluor 555  was used to detect MHC signal in myotubes . Human lung fibroblasts IMR90  transfected with doxycycline inducible mouse MyoD were cultured in growth media  . For the GM time point  MyoD expression was induced with 200 ng/ml of doxycycline  24 hr prior to the collection of cells . For the DM time point  , MyoD-expressing IMR90 cells were differentiated into myotubes for 72–96 hr in differentiation media  . 0 , 150 mM NaCl , 5 mM EDTA pH 8 . Nuclear extracts from C2C12 myoblasts and C2C12 myotubes carefully trypsinized  were prepared as described previously  . Nuclear extracts from C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes were diluted with BC buffer  to a final KCl concentration of 150 mM . After pre-clearing , nuclear extracts were incubated overnight at 4°C with 10 µg of anti-TBP antibody   or with 10 µg of non-specific mouse IgG  cross-linked to protein G-coated magnetic beads using dimethyl pimelimidate , in the presence of 125 Units Benzonase  . Isolated immunocomplexes were eluted from beads by incubation of samples with 60 µl of 1 mg/ml TBP peptide  in BC buffer containing 150 mM KCl for 3 hr on ice . Antibodies used for immunoblot probing were as follows: anti-TBP   , anti-TAF1  , anti-TAF2   , anti-TAF4   , anti-TAF6   , anti-TAF10   , anti-TAF12   , anti-TBP2   , anti-Actinin 3  , anti-Cyclin D1  , anti-Myogenin  , anti-Tubulin  , anti-Actin  , anti-Myosin Heavy Chain  . C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes were collected by careful trypsinization  and crosslinked in suspension in 40 ml PBS containing 1% formaldehyde for 15 min at room temperature . Crosslinked cells were washed with cold PBS containing 1 mM PMSF . 0 , 150 mM NaCl , 5 mM EDTA pH 8 . 200 µg of chromatin was used for immunoprecipitation with 10 µl anti-TBP antibody   or 8 µl anti-RNAPII-S5P antibody  . 0 , 150 mM NaCl , 5 mM EDTA pH 8 . 
Brain stimulation modulates the excitability of neural circuits and drives neuroplasticity . We studied stimulation-induced changes in network dynamics in two macaques . We tracked two measures of network connectivity , the network response to focal stimulation and the baseline coherence between pairs of electrodes; these were strongly correlated before stimulation . Within minutes , stimulation in S1 or M1 significantly strengthened the gross functional connectivity between these areas . At a finer scale , stimulation led to heterogeneous connectivity changes across the network . These changes reflected the correlations introduced by stimulation-evoked activity , consistent with Hebbian plasticity models . This work extends Hebbian plasticity models to large-scale circuits , with significant implications for stimulation-based neurorehabilitation . In principle , brain stimulation protocols can be designed to leverage this plasticity in order to rewire aberrant neural connectivity , potentially curing these disorders . Implementing such treatments requires a better understanding of how stimulation-induced plasticity drives changes in network connectivity and network dynamics . Recently , several studies have shown large-scale plasticity following brain stimulation that is consistent with Hebbian mechanisms  . Continuous reinforcement of this artificial connection led to a stable functional change in stimulation-evoked movements , indicating that stimulation induces large-scale plasticity . Similar results have been observed using open-loop stimulation protocols to induce targeted plasticity between two cortical sites  . Here , we measure connectivity across sensorimotor cortex and track changes in network connectivity in response to open-loop stimulation . We first establish and compare two measures of functional connectivity that provide complementary views of the mechanisms of plasticity . Next , we investigate how stimulation impacts connectivity between and within cortical areas . We then test whether stimulation-evoked activity drives large-scale network plasticity in a Hebbian manner . We quantified inter-area functional connectivity between S1 and M1 using two different measures—one based on the network response to optogenetic stimulation and the other based on spontaneous neural activity . The first measure focused on how the response to optical stimulation propagates through the network . Optogenetic stimulation in S1 and M1 evoked responses across both cortical areas , and we characterized these responses according to their amplitudes and delays  . The short delay of the secondary responses suggests close functional connectivity between these areas . We quantified this connectivity with the stimulus-evoked response ratio  . The SERR is a measure of the connectivity between the site of stimulation and sites in the other cortical area  . The second measure evaluates functional connectivity during spontaneous activity . We calculated the coherence between the site of stimulation and the secondary sites across different frequency bands . Because SERR and coherence are derived independently from recordings with and without simultaneous stimulation , they might reflect fundamentally different aspects of network connectivity . Therefore , in each experiment we compared these two measures prior to conditioning stimulation . Figure 3A shows two examples comparing SERR to coherence in the theta band  . An example showing a strong relationship between SERR and theta band coherence is shown in Figure 3B . This finding indicates that at baseline , before any conditioning , the stimulation-evoked response reflects network dynamics across the frequency spectrum . In each experiment , conditioning stimulation was applied for 50 min , and we evaluated functional connectivity every 10 min during blocks of passive baseline recording and active testing  . We also conducted control sessions with the same passive recording and testing blocks , but with no stimulation during the conditioning blocks . A representative example experiment , shown in Figure 4B , shows that stimulation in M1 leads to significant increases  in mean SERR . The increases in connectivity were symmetric between the two cortical areas  . No significant change in mean SERR was observed in control sessions without conditioning stimulation  . Furthermore , the increase in SERR was significantly larger for stimulation sessions than control sessions  We next asked whether conditioning increased coherence-based measures of inter-area connectivity . We also looked for change in the theta-band power as a result of stimulation and did not see any significant changes , supporting the conclusion that changes in coherence reflect changes in functional connectivity  . We showed in Figure 3C above that SERR and coherence are correlated measures of functional connectivity in the baseline condition . Here we ask how this relationship is changed by stimulation . After conditioning , the cross-channel correlation between these measures significantly decreased  , and the changes in connectivity were uncorrelated  . This suggests that the stimulation affects the two measures differently . Together , these results show that the stimulation-induced changes in these two measures of connectivity do not correlate with each other at a fine-scale . , they capture related , but not identical , aspects of connectivity . As shown in Figure 1B , our stimulation protocol included 5 repetitions of baseline recording , testing , and conditioning . Figure 5A shows the evolution of mean inter-area connectivity for both measures in an example session . To account for differences in network connectivity across monkeys and sessions , we also analyzed the changes in each measure with respect to the baseline pre-conditioning measurements  . For this example session  , and on average across all sessions  , there is a trend of increasing connectivity across the session that starts within the first 10 min conditioning block . These increases in inter-area connectivity measured with SERR and coherence  were correlated across time  . 5 min of stimulation in 4 out of 5 conditioning blocks  . Note that the stimulation-induced plasticity was not reinforced during baseline recording blocks . Given the length of the conditioning  and baseline recording  blocks , one might expect that stimulation-induced changes would revert back to baseline . We did observe a significant decrease  in the SERR between the last 100 pulses of the conditioning block and the following test block , indicating some unlearning of the stimulation-induced connectivity changes . Since SERR is restricted to connectivity from the stimulation site , this analysis was conducted using only changes in pairwise coherence . Figure 6A shows data from an example session , with connectivity changes represented as a set of heatmaps: the heatmap at each recording site represents the change in pairwise coherence between that electrode and all of the other electrodes . This example shows heterogeneous changes in connectivity across the network . A Hebbian plasticity model suggests that the fine-scale changes in connectivity should reflect the statistics of plasticity-inducing activity . In this case , we predicted that correlated stimulation-evoked activity between two cortical sites would strengthen the functional connectivity between them , while uncorrelated or anti-correlated stimulation-evoked activity would weaken their functional connectivity . We quantified stimulation-induced correlations by measuring the pairwise coherence during the conditioning block and subtracting out the coherence calculated during baseline recording  . We refer to this difference as the stimulus-evoked coherence . Indeed , in the example session of Figure 6A , one can see a similarity between the pattern of changes in baseline coherence across the array  with the stimulus-evoked coherence  . To quantify this similarity , we used linear regression to predict changes in baseline coherence across sites based on the stimulus-evoked coherence . The plot shows a strong correlation between the stimulus-evoked coherence and changes in baseline coherence . These results support a Hebbian model for network-wide changes in connectivity . We repeated the analysis of mean inter-area coherence changes  for these sessions , and we did not see a consistent increase in mean inter-area connectivity  . Nevertheless , we found that stimulus-evoked coherence continued to predict changes in baseline coherence  . These results demonstrate a robust relationship between stimulus-evoked correlations and changes in baseline connectivity across the network . These findings are well explained by a Hebbian model of large-scale stimulation-induced plasticity . To evaluate stimulation-induced changes across these areas we investigated two measures of functional connectivity , one based on stimulation and one based on natural neural processing . Variants of SERR  and coherence  have been used previously to evaluate functional connectivity . In principle , these two measures reflect different aspects of functional connectivity . SERR is a more direct measure of the projections from the stimulation site . In other words , direct connectivity , as reflected in SERR , drives correlated activity , which is reflected in coherence; conversely , correlated activity drives changes in connectivity  . This might seem surprising given that conditioning led to a significant mean increase in connectivity between S1 and M1 for both measures and that the changes in coherence were robustly predicted by the stimulus-evoked coherence . Here we demonstrated that optogenetic stimulation at even a single location strengthens inter-area functional connectivity between brain areas . A similar observation was reported for one session of single-site electrical stimulation  . In particular , since the time difference between the activation of the primary  and secondary  responses to optical stimulation is about 3–6 ms , repetitive stimulation should strengthen the connectivity from the site of stimulation to the other area . While stimulation-induced long-term potentiation  and STDP have been observed within local circuits  , and have been posited as the mechanism of stimulation-induced plasticity within M1  this is the first study explaining large-scale changes across cortical networks . Notably , conditioning drove increases in coherence between S1 and M1 only in the theta band  . It is possible that Hebbian mechanisms are selectively enhancing connectivity at the conditioning frequency . Interestingly , we observed unlearning of the stimulation-induced changes during passive recording , though some of the stimulation-induced changes persisted . Further experiments are required to estimate the stability of plasticity following optogenetic stimulation over longer time scales . Given that Hebbian rules have been used extensively to explain synaptic plasticity , we wanted to explore the idea that large-scale stimulation-induced changes are consistent with Hebbian plasticity . The strongest test of the Hebbian model is to compare the correlations directly induced by stimulation with the changes in network correlations observed after conditioning . We did find a predictive linear relationship between stimulus-evoked coherence and the changes in baseline coherence after conditioning . The large-scale interface used in this study enabled robust estimation of functional connectivity and stimulation-evoked correlations . Our results offer a proof-of-concept that optogenetic stimulation can drive predictable changes in network-scale connectivity . We chose the locations of stimulation based on the results of our epifluorescent imaging ( see  ) and whether we got a physiological response to light stimulation . Our stimulation and recording paradigms consisted of baseline recording , testing and conditioning blocks  . For two-site stimulation , the delay between the two lasers was 10 , 30 , 70 or 100 ms . 
Lesions of primary visual cortex  lead to loss of conscious visual perception with significant impact on human patients . Visual stimulation under anaesthesia with checkerboards activated lateral geniculate nucleus of monkey S , while full-field moving dots activated pulvinar . Visual cortical activation was sparse but included face patches . Consistently across lesion and control monkeys , functional connectivity analysis revealed an intact network of bilateral dorsal visual areas temporally correlated with V5/MT activation , even without V1 . Previous data on bilaterally cortically blind macaque monkeys suggest that there is a dissociation between use of vision for guiding movement and for awareness and recognition  . Macaque monkeys who received a unilateral V1 lesion at two months of age exhibited more residual vision as adults than monkeys who received their lesions in adulthood  . The presence of residual visual function suggests that functional visual networks can develop or be sustained in the absence of the main visual input to cortex . In monkeys , in the absence of primary visual cortex , a number of potential pathways have been proposed to convey visual information from the eyes to extrastriate visual cortex . In humans , both pulvinar and LGN inputs to V5/MT have been implicated  . Previous data have implicated roles in residual vision for the LGN , pulvinar , SC and the extrastriate visual cortical networks including motion area V5/MT . Our aim here was to use magnetic resonance imaging  to determine the integrity of the structural and functional networks underlying residual visual function in this monkey with a long-standing anatomical lesion of primary visual cortex . Training in both cases was completed in a comparable time frame to other monkeys trained at the same time . Training began with a simple task in a transport box , ‘anytouch’ , where monkey S was rewarded for touching the screen anywhere during presentation of an array of colourful typographical characters . Monkey S managed to complete 10 trials in 3 min within one week of training and thus progressed to the next training stage . Monkey S reached 40–50 trials in increments of 10 trials , but continued with the lowest complexity of visual presentations over six weeks of training . This was a particularly poor performance compared with other monkeys progressing through this auto-shaping programme . Monkey S was unable to progress further from the initial stages of ‘oneplace’ . At this phase of the training , monkey S was transferred to a primate chair  and to a different reward schedule  , and ‘oneplace’ was attempted again . Monkey S still worked much more slowly than other monkeys , attaining 40 rewarded trials in 33 min over many weeks of training sessions , whereas typical performance is expected to be closer to 100 rewarded trials in 18–25 min . Monkey S would typically no longer respond to the task when the number of trials or the complexity of the task were increased . Initially , monkey S was trained to hold the lever and then release it for reward . Although she did well during this initial behavioural training , monkey S was unable to learn to release the lever in response to visual stimulation . During this time , rudimentary checks determined that , while seated in the primate chair , monkey S could orient towards rewards and objects when held up in front of her and when moved around in her visual field . Finally , monkey S was returned to the transport box touch screen training with ‘oneplace’ . An error was recorded when monkey S touched the touch screen anywhere apart from the alphanumeric character . As monkey S so obviously differed from the animals co-housed with her , we performed a brain scan . The LGN , the pulvinar , the SC and V5/MT are four structures that have been commonly thought to support residual vision in blindsight . When we investigated the structure of the LGN in monkey S and four female control Rhesus macaques of a similar age with intact visual systems , there was no obvious reduction in size of the structure from inspection of the images  . The volume of the LGN in the control monkeys was measured at 50 . In monkey S , the comparable values were 47 . Similarly , the superior colliculus  was also comparable in size in monkey S  and control monkeys   . Finally , the pulvinar was also of a similar size in monkey S  and control monkeys   . To investigate the cortical changes in more detail , we acquired post mortem T2*-weighted images in monkey S and for the right hemisphere of a control monkey   . The stripe of Gennari is visible in both monkey S and the control monkey . However , the stripe is closer to the pial surface in monkey S , rather than in the middle of the cortical ribbon , as seen in the control monkey . Measurement of cortical thickness in V1 in both monkeys indicated that monkey S has substantially thinner cortex around the lesion . By contrast , extrastriate visual area V5/MT appeared to have a thickness of about 2 mm , which is comparable to the control monkey . To investigate whether there were structural consequences of the loss of major feedforward input to extrastriate visual cortex , we took such scans from monkey S and compared the results with those previously obtained from the same four female control Rhesus monkeys as in the previous section  . This band is similar in location and extent to the four control monkeys . We conducted eight scanning sessions in seven Rhesus macaque monkeys . We then restricted all further analyses to those monkeys that had significant BOLD activation in the LGN  to this stimulus  . One scanning session from each of four monkeys fulfilled this criterion , including the first of two separate scanning sessions with monkey S . The strong activation evident in the LGN of monkey S , is consistent with the intact structure shown in Figure 1 , and suggests that information from the retina can reach the brain . The control monkeys included in these analyses showed similar activation in the LGN in response to this stimulus . In contrast to the strong activation in the LGN , there was less activation evident in visual cortical regions , especially in the primary visual cortex of monkey S  . The level of activation to this type of stimulation was lower in all animals , including monkey S . Control monkey M901 showed very little activation to the moving dots in any brain region , in contrast to the strong activation evident in the LGN to flickering checkerboards . Monkey S showed some LGN activation on the left side of the brain and in the pulvinar situated posterior to the LGN . Cortical activation was sparsely distributed around the brain , with some activation within the dorsal part of the Superior Temporal Sulcus  near area V5/MT in monkey S  and in control monkeys M142 and M902 . The whole brain analyses suggested that activation was greatest to the flickering checkerboard , particularly in the LGN . To quantify activation and compare responses in monkey S with the control monkeys , the % BOLD signal was extracted from the LGN , pulvinar , V1 and area V5/MT . Masks were defined anatomically on the brains of each individual monkey in structural space using a standard atlas as a guide   . The activation levels in Figure 6 support the observation that the activity in LGN is greatest to the checkerboards across all animals , including monkey S . For control monkeys , V1 activation tended to be lower than for the LGN , with a median ratio of V1:LGN of 0 . 83  , but this was 0 for monkey S as she showed no V1 activation . Furthermore , monkey S did not show significant activation in anatomically defined area V5/MT to either stimulus but did in the pulvinar , though only in response to the moving dots . The timeseries from the LGN  and the pulvinar  activation for monkey S illustrate the variability of the BOLD signal in these regions  . The only other monkey with activation in the pulvinar to the moving dots  showed similar activation to the checkerboard stimulus , a pattern not seen in monkey S . Thus , it was surprising that anatomically defined V5/MT in monkey S did not show significant activation to either type of stimulation . To investigate the activation patterns in monkey S in more detail , Figure 7 shows a series of slices , 3 mm apart , through dorsal aspects of the superior temporal sulcus  including visual areas of hMT+ in the human visual system  . Since the monkeys were all anaesthetised , it was difficult to determine whether the scarcity of cortical activity in monkey S was due to effects of the anaesthetic or reflected a real difference in signal processing . For instance , it is conceivable that the heavily enlarged , fluid-filled ventricles within the visual cortex that formed the lesion could have differentially affected the pattern of action of anaesthesia in monkey S . Figure 6 showed no significant V5/MT activation in monkey S to either checkerboard or moving dots stimuli , so to understand the nature of the response in area V5/MT , we performed a connectivity analysis . This method was used previously to investigate the functional connectivity patterns of temporal and frontal regions in macaque monkeys  . Figure 8 shows the regions of the cortex with a pattern of BOLD activation that was significantly correlated to the time-series signal extracted from V5/MT on the right side of the brain when the monkey was shown the moving dot stimulus . In addition to the STS , a large swathe of dorsal extrastriate cortex and parietal areas showed significant correlation , both in the control monkeys and in monkey S . Finally , the network connected to V5/MT included the Frontal Eye Fields  in monkey S and all control monkeys . This connectivity analysis was also performed using the LGN and the pulvinar as a seed . Neither of these seeds produced a consistent pattern of connectivity with any cortical structures either in the control monkeys or monkey S . The structural data indicated that both V5/MT and LGN were intact in monkey S , and fMRI activation data suggested that LGN and pulvinar were activated by a flickering checkerboard and moving dots respectively . Furthermore , extrastriate visual area V5/MT appeared to have a similar functional connectivity profile to this area as observed in control monkeys . The cortical activation evoked by visual stimulation was variable in all the monkeys , so to investigate the connection between V5/MT and visual subcortical structures , we performed probabilistic tractography on diffusion-weighted images . Figure 9 shows the tracts between LGN and V5/MT and pulvinar and V5/MT , in each case with the threshold set at 10% of the maximum number of tracts reaching the target structure . In the data shown , the seed structure was either LGN or pulvinar and the target was ipsilateral V5/MT . The six control monkeys showed reasonably consistent tracts with pulvinar<->V5/MT tract generally running superior to the LGN<->V5/MT tract . Monkey S also showed tracts between these structures , but the location and extent of the lesion meant that the actual route followed was different and the tracts seemed to be less direct as they appeared to project around the lesion . In order to quantify how the tracts in monkey S compare with the control animals , we performed two additional analyses . These metrics are shown in Figure 10 , and indicate that the microstructure of the tracts in monkey S was most likely intact . But the number of tracts that could be identified between V5/MT and either LGN or pulvinar was very low , with the percentage of tracts reaching target ranging between 0 . 03% in all cases for monkey S . Compared to control monkeys , this was at least an order of magnitude lower . To investigate whether any responses to faces could be detected in monkey S and two of the control monkeys , we presented full field stimuli of monkey faces . Despite the large cortical lesion , in contrast to much of the human ‘Blindsight’ literature , we found the LGN in monkey S to be intact . Combined lesion and silencing studies in macaques reinforce the requirement for an intact LGN to support remaining visual function after V1 lesions  . Preservation of structure and function of the LGN after a visual cortical lesion might depend on age at the time of lesion as well as the extent of the lesion , as studies in marmosets suggest  . This would be consistent with a very early loss of V1 , possibly in utero , for monkey S . Even with such extensive loss in the occipital lobe and thus , the loss of a major input  , this region of the STS appeared normal in monkey S . However , monkey S had very large bilateral lesions that may have caused greater disruption to the normal pattern of white matter connectivity . Performing BOLD fMRI in anaesthetised macaques is challenging even when the monkey has a healthy visual system; this is evident in the variability in the amount of cortical activation in the control monkeys . We mitigated some of this effect , by restricting our quantitative analyses to those sessions that showed significant activation of the LGN with a checkerboard stimulus . In the same context , some of the small patches of activations that we see around dorsal and ventral STS in monkey S could be spurious signal fluctuations . However , for monkey S , looking through the whole brain  , we find only few regions with significant activation . A further challenge in monkey S is that the damage is bilateral . The most evident activation is clearly in the LGN in response to checkerboard stimulation , which is equivalent to that seen in controls and suggests the visual pathway prior to V1 is intact . By contrast , the activation pattern in the pulvinar to moving dots for monkey S appeared to be as great as in the best control subject , which is consistent with an increased role for this structure due to the perinatal nature of the lesion  . Thus , the lack of consistent activation in V5/MT in monkey S and some controls suggests a suppressive effect of the anaesthetic , which was most evident with larger doses of the volatile anaesthetic . Nevertheless , for visual motion stimuli we saw in monkey S foci of activation in the region of V5/MT in dorsal STS of both hemispheres , suggesting any activation may be sub-threshold and difficult to detect with BOLD . This was very similar in monkey S and the control monkeys , suggesting that this inter-cortical activity in the macaque visual brain was not affected by the loss of V1 . Interestingly , none of the monkeys included LGN in this functional network , perhaps reflecting the weak anatomical connectivity between these areas in typical animals  . For all monkeys , FEF was included in the functional network , as would be predicted from a knowledge of the V5/MT connectivity  . Surprisingly , we also found activation of two of the most pertinent face patches along the STS in monkey S – in the context of little other consistent activations . However , if confirmed , this result would suggest other intact subcortical inputs in this monkey to temporal visual cortex from pulvinar , claustrum , and amygdala supporting these activations  . Given that the day-to-day behaviour of monkey S did not cause concern , the monkey presumably had a reasonable amount of residual vision , in spite of the extensive cortical lesions . The lack of significant differences between monkey S and controls in the pathways between LGN-V5/MT and pulvinar-V5/MT suggests either or both could support residual visual abilities . So , what might be the source of visual input that supports visual function and presumably shaped an intact extrastriate visual brain network ? Earlier MRI studies in V1-lesioned monkeys have shown parallel activation in early visual areas , like V2 , V3 and V4 as well as V5/MT  . These visual cortical areas also receive direct subcortical input  . Visual structures , both cortical and subcortical , outside of the large lesion of primary visual cortex remained intact in monkey S with little evidence of atrophy . This suggests a role in residual visual function , consistent with an intact network of extrastriate cortical visual areas that was comparable to control monkeys . This may explain the increased residual function both , in monkey S and in children with early damage to the visual cortex . Seven macaque monkeys  , weighing 6 . The structural myelin data of the four control monkeys have previously been reported elsewhere  , and so have the DWI data from four of the six controls  . For task training , monkey S was usually trained once a day for five days per week  . But for double transport device acclimatization  , monkey S was trained twice a day for five days per week . For touchscreen training , monkey S was brought in the transport box from the home enclosure to a test cubicle  . The first two simple tasks in this sequence were attempted by monkey S:  In ‘anytouch’ , monkeys were rewarded for touching the screen anywhere during presentation of an array of colourful , alphanumeric characters  on a black background;  in ‘oneplace’ , a single coloured typographical character was presented on a black background in a random location and remained on the screen until the monkey had touched it . Monkey S’s head was approximately 160 mm away from the touchscreen and her hand reach 100 mm . In addition , monkey S had to reach out to touch one of two white squares  that were then presented on the touchscreen to the left and right of the circle . Monkey S was initially trained to hold a metal bolt and her hand was guided toward the metal knob . The seven monkeys undergoing functional MRI scans were sedated with a mixture of ketamine  , xylazine  and medetomidine  . In the majority of monkeys during visual presentation , isoflurane concentration was at 1%  . In anaesthetised monkeys , visual activation can vary for a number of reasons , including accommodation , drifting eye movements and level of anaesthesia . Procedures for monkeys undergoing structural scans are described elsewhere  . Anesthetised monkeys were placed in an MRI-compatible stereotactic frame  in sphinx position . For monkey S , TE = 102 ms and TR = 9 s; for the controls , TE = 102 ms and TR = 8 . Monkey S and six fMRI control monkeys were presented with checkerboard and visual motion stimuli  . Only Monkey S and four control animals were presented with the face stimuli . Checkerboard . Masks for the lateral geniculate nucleus  , medial and lateral pulvinar , superior colliculus  , area V5/MT and primary visual cortex  were defined anatomically on the brains of each individual monkey in structural space using a standard atlas as a guide   . To control for the effects of anaesthesia , we included four monkeys for analysis of functional MRI data which showed significant LGN activation to the checkerboard stimulation   . We traced two unilateral pathways in each hemisphere: pulvinar to V5/MT and LGN to V5/MT . The pulvinar mask was reduced in size to focus on the inferior pulvinar as this is the portion that relays visual information from the SC to area V5/MT  . In the case of the V1-lesioned monkey S , we also included a mask encompassing the bilateral lesion . 
By combining biochemical assays and single-molecule techniques , we show that the nuclear innate immune sensor IFI16 one-dimensionally tracks long stretches of exposed foreign dsDNA to assemble into supramolecular signaling platforms . We also demonstrate that nucleosomes represent barriers that prevent IFI16 from targeting host DNA by directly interfering with these one-dimensional movements . This unique scanning-assisted assembly mechanism allows IFI16 to distinguish friend from foe and assemble into oligomers efficiently and selectively on foreign DNA . In the cytoplasm , the immune system relies on the absence of endogenous DNA , and thus marks all detected DNA as 'foreign'   . Although key players that target foreign dsDNA in the host nucleus have been identified  , the molecular mechanisms by which these sensors distinguish self from nonself dsDNA remain unknown . The interferon-inducible protein 16  is a key innate immune sensor that detects foreign dsDNA and uses it as a scaffold to assemble supramolecular signaling platforms in both the host nucleus and cytoplasm   . IFI16 plays a central role in defense against a number of pathogens   . On the other hand , persistent IFI16 signaling is associated with autoimmunity   . The molecular mechanisms by which IFI16 selectively targets foreign dsDNA remain unknown . To establish a functional signaling platform , IFI16 must overcome two challenges . First , individual IFI16 molecules must be able to locate one another on large pathogen genomes with sizes ranging from 105 to 106 base pairs  . Second and more importantly , this assembly mechanism can only take place on foreign dsDNA and must be inhibited on host dsDNA  . Here , we report the observation of a unifying molecular mechanism that explains how IFI16 resolves these central issues in initiating its foreign-dsDNA sensing pathways . IFI16 assembles faster on longer dsDNA . Top: IFI16 is composed of three functional domains flanked by unstructured linkers , namely one pyrin domain  and two dsDNA-binding Hin domains  . Bottom: IFI16 detects foreign dsDNA from invading pathogens in both the host nucleus and cytoplasm . The two differentially colored ovals represent fluorescently  labeled IFI16 . Bottom: The time-dependent changes in the emission ratio between FRET donor and acceptor labeled IFI16  were monitored at 33 µg/ml of each dsDNA  . dsDNA-sizes  . 1D-diffusion assisted assembly mechanism can explain the observed assembly profile of IFI16 . At the same mass-concentrations , the number of individual dsDNA fragments present in each assay is inversely proportional to the length of dsDNA . Individual IFI16 molecules initially bind dsDNA at random positions and diffuse one-dimensionally while searching for other respective protomers; the number of IFI16 residing on the same dsDNA fragment should be proportional to the length of dsDNA  3 . IFI16 fails to assemble into an oligomer on dsDNA shorter than 60 bp  . FRET assembly assays using 25 nM donor and acceptor labeled IFI16 compared to 50 nM in Figure 1B . Single Cy5-labeled IFI16 protein  moving on double-biotinylated dsλ-DNA at 300 mM KCl  . 005 To identify the mechanisms underlying assembly of IFI16 signaling platforms on DNA , we monitored the oligomerization kinetics of FRET donor and acceptor labeled IFI16 on naked dsDNA  . Using various dsDNA fragment sizes present in excess , we observe that the assembly rate increased non-linearly and by 50-fold from 60 to 200 bps dsDNA , above which it stayed constant  . With a dsDNA-binding footprint of ~15 bp for one IFI16  , our results indicate that about 4 copies are required to initiate assembly , and about 10 IFI16 molecules are required for optimal oligomeric assembly  . Further , the assembly rate constants scaled linearly with the IFI16 concentration for all measured DNA lengths  , indicating that a purely cooperative assembly mechanism is unlikely . Our ensemble-averaged , solution-phase observations of the faster assembly on longer dsDNA suggest a model in which IFI16 scans along dsDNA to increase the probability of encountering other IFI16 molecules  . To directly test such a mechanism , we used single-molecule fluorescence imaging to track the movements of individual Cy5-labeled IFI16 molecules on stretched , double-sided attached λ-phage dsDNA   . Figure 2B shows that individual IFI16 molecules one-dimensionally  diffuse on λdsDNA while bound for several seconds . The diffusion coefficient of IFI16 increased with ionic strength , indicating that IFI16 does not maintain a continuous electrostatic interaction with the dsDNA backbone , but instead moves along the λdsDNA scaffold by executing microscopically small steps   . An IFI16 construct lacking the oligomerizing pyrin domain   showed similar diffusional properties , suggesting that the dsDNA-binding HIN200 domains are responsible for 1D diffusion . Upon applying higher concentrations of IFI16 with a constant supply of proteins into our flow cell , we observed a gradual formation of distinct , immobile clusters along λdsDNA  . Over time , we also observed an increase in the number of molecules per cluster and a concomitant decrease in the diffusion coefficient  . We analyzed the impact of flow on the diffusion coefficient and diffusion bias and found it to be not significant for cluster formation  . Single-molecule intensity analysis revealed that the lower limit of the number of IFI16 molecules found in immobile clusters is equivalent to eight protomers  , which also corroborate the optimal complex  suggested from Figure 1C . Furthermore , individual IFI16 molecules either formed new clusters or joined other clusters in a stochastic manner , and the immobile clusters formed faster with higher IFI16 concentrations  . The rate of addition of IFI16 molecules to clusters is independent on the size of the existing cluster , confirming the absence of strong cooperativity in assembly  . IFI16 scans dsDNA . λdsDNA is anchored to the pegylated coverslip surface by either one or two biotinylated oligonucleotide linkers . Single-biotinylated λdsDNA is constantly stretched by flow during measurements and used for the clustering and nucleosome experiments , whereas double-biotinylated λdsDNA is stably attached whilst being stretched and used without flow for single-molecule diffusion coefficient analysis . Double-biotinylated λdsDNA is anchored to the surface and Cy5-labeled IFI16 molecules  are visualized in near TIRF while bound to DNA . Elevated IFI16 concentrations result in clustering along λdsDNA . Top: A sample kymograph of multiple IFI16 molecules  diffusing along λdsDNA . IFI16 molecules display a net motion along the flow direction . Bottom: Time-resolved clustering is accompanied by a decrease in diffusion coefficients and increase in the number of molecules per cluster . The diffusion coefficient inversely correlates with the number of IFI16 per cluster , resulting in immobile , stable oligomers . Cluster formation is IFI16-concentration dependent . Dependence of the diffusion coefficient of IFI16 and IFI16HinAB mutant on salt concentration . IFI16: The median of D increases from 0 . 31 M concomitant with decreasing binding times to DNA . Representative fluorescence images of IFI16-Cy5 on DNA molecules: Concentrations of 1 and 5 nM result in the resolution of single IFI16 molecules and distinguishable Ifi16 clusters , respectively , whereas a higher concentration of 10 nM eventually leads to DNA congestion with protein clusters or filaments . The mean particle intensity for single molecules serves as basis for calculating the number of IFI16 molecules within clusters  . Fluorescence data of 5 nM IFI16 are converted to cluster sizes  . The mean cluster size amounts to 8 IFI16 molecules within a cluster . Clusters are almost immobile , represented by a significant reduction in the diffusion coefficient D compared to that of single molecules of IFI16 . org/10 . Impact of the flow-induced drift on diffusion and clustering is minimal . Constant flow  is applied for the clustering experiments with elevated IFI16 concentrations , corresponding to a drag force of 1-2 fN on the DNA substrate and bound IFI16 molecules . The median measured diffusion coefficient D for single molecules increases from 0 . Monte-Carlo simulation of IFI16 dimerization on λDNA that is occupied by varying amounts of 1D-diffusing IFI16s . org/10 . Cy5-labeled IFI16 molecules  moving and clustering on single-biotinylated dsλ-DNA at 160 mM KCl at constant flow from left to right . org/10 . 011 The 1D diffusion of IFI16 on dsDNA explains why the assembly rates increase with the DNA length in the bulk experiments  . With the longer dsDNA acting as an antenna , it allows binding of more IFI16 while 1D diffusion facilitates dynamic association  . The saturation of the assembly rate  can be explained by the square dependence of the diffusional search time on length: at a sufficiently long dsDNA length , the dissociation rate of an individual IFI16 will be faster than the time needed to scan along the entire length of the DNA . In addition , longer DNA substrates work no longer as antennae , but as traps , since individual IFI16 molecules are farther apart and thus less likely to encounter one another  . Overall , the results of our bulk and single-molecule experiments are consistent with the dsDNA-size dependent binding in vitro  , which also correlates with the IFI16-induced inflammatory responses in vivo  . Thus , we propose that the 1D-diffusion mediated assembly plays a key role in regulating the overall IFI16-mediated immune responses . It has long been speculated that chromatinization acts as the key feature that allows IFI16 to distinguish host from foreign DNA in the nucleus  ; IFI16 oligomerizes on exposed invading foreign-dsDNA before it becomes hetero-chromatinized . Previous in vivo work demonstrated that transfected chromatinized SV40 DNA is able to evade IFI16 oligomerization and downstream responses  . Nevertheless , the molecular mechanism by which IFI16 could use chromatinization to distinguish self from nonself has yet to be identified . To directly address this issue , we first used a competition-binding assay to investigate how IFI16 interacts with dsDNA fragments containing two nucleosomes with varying spacer sizes  . Here , di-nucleosomes with 6- , 30- , and 50-bp spacer failed to compete against IFI16-bound FAM-labeled 70-bp dsDNA ,  . On the other hand , the di-nucleosome with 70-bp spacer competed similarly as 70-bp naked dsDNA , but significantly more weakly than naked 300-bp dsDNA  . In FRET assembly assays , di-nucleosomes with spacers shorter than 70-bp failed to support assembly  , consistent with our FRET kinetics assays using naked dsDNA  . The 70-bp spacer di-nucleosome supported oligomerization of IFI16; however , the assembly kinetics was again similar to that of naked 70-bp dsDNA , but not that of naked 300-bp dsDNA  . Taken together , these results show that efficient IFI16 cluster formation requires a minimal length of 50-70 base pairs of exposed dsDNA . Considering that the size of dsDNA linker between two nucleosomes is about 20 to 30 bps in mammals  , these results directly support the hypothesis that chromatinization is a key deterrent for preventing the assembly of IFI16 signaling platforms on self-dsDNA . Nucleosomes inhibit oligomerization . A cartoon of di-nucleosome constructs with varying dsDNA-spacers . Competition binding assays using IFI16 bound FAM-labeled 70-bp dsDNA against various di-nucleosomes and naked dsDNA . The mass-concentration of each competitor was calculated using dsDNA , but not histones . The time-dependent changes in the emission ratio between the FRET donor and acceptor labeled IFI16  were monitored at 33 µg/ml of each nucleosome or naked dsDNA . org/10 . org/10 . 013 To test whether the inhibitory effect of chromatin directly arises by interfering with the 1D diffusion of IFI16 , we visualized the movement of individual IFI16 molecules on DNA with nucleosomes . We introduced randomly localized nucleosomes in λdsDNA using recombinant human histone octamers and tagged nucleosome positions with fluorescent antibodies against the N-terminal tail of histone H4  . The application of hydrodynamic flow resulted in the single IFI16 molecules being pushed to one direction and clustering at nucleosomal sites on λdsDNA , unable to overcome the octamers by diffusion  . Without the antibody , the motion of IFI16 was still confined , whereas for bare λdsDNA , IFI16 moved with a high processivity along the entire strand  . These observations are consistent with the bulk experiments  , and confirm that nucleosomes directly restrict the 1D diffusion of IFI16 and consequently limit the assembly of IFI16 signaling platforms on dsDNA . Nucleosomes inhibit 1D-diffusion . Kymographs of Cy5-labeled IFI16  binding to λdsDNA with varying numbers of nucleosomes tagged with anti-H4-Atto488  . The number of nucleosomes per λdsDNA were estimated by quantifying IFI16 clustering sites for the lowest nucleosome/λdsDNA ratio  , yielding ~2 nucleosomes/ λdsDNA . At low nucleosome concentrations  , IFI16 binds to λdsDNA and diffuses with the flow direction , until encountering a nucleosome . At higher concentrations  , individual IFI16 show only very short diffusive movements upon binding . On naked λdsDNA , IFI16 travels with the flow to the free tip  , whereas it oligomerizes along the path on nucleosome-loaded λdsDNA  . The overall travel distance of single IFI16 on nucleosome-loaded λdsDNA is reduced compared to bare λdsDNA  . org/10 . Reconstituted nucleosomes on restricted λdsDNA: EcoRI digestion generated l-DNA fragments of 21 kbp , 7 . 5 kbp , 5 . 8 kbp , 5 . 6 kbp , 4 . 8 kbp , and 3 . 5 kbp . org/10 . Single-molecule co-localization probability of anti-H4- Atto488 with IFI16-Cy5 on nucleosomal biotin-λdsDNA and on biotin-601-nucleosomes  . 601-nucleosomes do not provide sufficient exposed dsDNA for IFI16 binding , whereas on λdsDNA IFI16 molecules travel until encountering nucleosome obstacles . org/10 . Nucleosomes interfere with the 1D-diffusion of IFI16 . Example kymographs of IFI16-Cy5 on bare λdsDNA with long processivities to the free DNA tip and on nucleosomal λdsDNA with reduced run lengths . Analysis of the number of IFI16 aggregation sites along DNA templates  points to 1–3 nucleosomes per λdsDNA for the chosen reconstitution ratio DNA:histones , as it was used for run length measurements  . org/10 . Cy5-labeled IFI16 molecules  moving on λ-DNA , with on average two nucleosomes per DNA , at constant flow from left to right . Nucleosomes are tagged with fluorescent anti-H4  . Most nucleosomes co-localize with IFI16 , indicating that they are efficiently blocking 1D-diffusion by IFI16 . org/10 . 018 The molecular mechanism by which innate immune sensors distinguish self from foreign dsDNA in the host nucleus has been a major unresolved question in innate immunology  . The oligomerization of IFI16 on under-chromatinized foreign DNA plays a key role not only in initiating inflammatory and antiviral responses ,  , but also in regulating the hetero-chromatinization and silencing of viral dsDNA  . By using time-resolved bulk and single-molecule fluorescence assays , we demonstrate here that IFI16 ID scans along exposed dsDNA to assemble into distinct clusters and that chromatinization is sufficient to inhibit IFI16 from targeting host dsDNA for assembly . In vivo , this 1D scanning mechanism allows a limited number of IFI16 molecules to allocate each other on large genomes of invading pathogens . While the clustering on dsDNA presents a tempting explanation for the role of IFI16 in viral gene silencing , future in vivo experiments await to test this . IFI16 belongs to the family of AIM2-like receptors , which include other nuclear and cytosolic foreign dsDNA-sensors . It will be interesting to determine whether and how these other related sensors use exposed dsDNA as a 1D 'digital ruler' to regulate their signaling platform assembly . Human full-length IFI16 and IFI16HinAB were cloned and expressed using E . dsDNA shorter than 90-bp were obtained from Integrated DNA Technologies  as described in Morrone et al . DyLight-550 , DyLight-650 , or Cy5 fluorophore was incorporated to IFI16 using maleimide chemistry  and was performed as described in Morrone , et al . Fluorescein-labeled dsDNA72 was obtained from IDT . , at a 2:1 molar ratio of octamer:DNA . An agarose gel of reconstituted nucleosomes is shown in Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . Here , 300 nM IFI16 and 4 . Increasing concentrations of competing DNA were added to the reaction to a final concentration of 100 nM IFI16 and 1 . 66 µg/ml of each dsDNA or di-nucleosomes was placed in the plate wells , and the reaction was initiated by adding an equivalent volume of IFI16-550 and IFI16-650  to the indicated final concentration . The dead time between addition of IFI16 and the first measurement was 15-20 s . The final dsDNA molar-concentrations are at least sixfold higher than their determined binding constants by fluorescence anisotropy assays described in Morrone , et al . Single-biotinylated DNA templates were stretched by constant flow  throughout the experiments  . Double-biotinylated DNA templates were applied to the flow cell at high flow velocity  . This allowed binding of the DNA to two biotin moieties , while the DNA was stretched . Free DNA was washed out , IFI16 applied to the flow cell , and flow was then stopped for acquisition of the single molecule diffusion traces . We tested nucleosome reconstitution by an EMSA assay on digested λ-DNA  . For this , we generated DNA fragments by digestion with EcoRI  , purified them  and reconstituted nucleosomes in the concentration ratios that we also used for full-length λ-DNA . Labeled antibodies were negatively tested against bare DNA and Ifi16 clusters in the microscopy assay , and showed high specificity for nucleosomal DNA preparations only . λ-DNA templates , loaded with nucleosomes and tagged with anti-H4 , were constantly stretched in the flow channel . Ifi16 co-localized strongly with the nucleosome signal  . In contrast , biotinylated 601-sequence prepared with nucleosomes and tagged with anti-H4-Atto488 , hardly showed co-localization with Ifi16 , indicating , that there is not sufficient exposed dsDNA available for binding  . For the clustering experiments , we applied a flow of 0 . We expect the DNA molecules to be on average 0 . 2 µm away from the surface  , giving a velocity at this distance y of  :vy=32vavghy-y2h24=40 μm/s , with vavg=23vmax The Stokes drag force that acts on the DNA and bound IFI16 molecules is then described by F=6πηrv1+9r16y=1 . Here , we calculated the expected search time for two IFI16 molecules  to allocate each other on a λ-DNA molecule congested with a varying amount of other diffusing IFI16 molecules  . 
Methanol or formalin-fixed specimens are stained with fluorescent dyes or antibodies to visualize ROIs , then soaked in solutions containing the photo-tag: 4-benzoylbenzyl-glycyl-hexahistidine . Confocal imaging along with two photon excitation are used to covalently couple photo-tags to all proteins within each ROI , to a resolution of 0 . After tissue solubilization , photo-tagged proteins are isolated and identified by mass spectrometry . As a test case , we examined amyloid plaques in an Alzheimer's disease  mouse model and a post-mortem AD case , confirming known plaque constituents and discovering new ones . STOMP can be applied to various biological samples including cell lines , primary cell cultures , ex vivo specimens , biopsy samples , and fixed post-mortem tissue . Pathological protein deposits have a long history as hallmarks of neurodegenerative disease . More specialized stains and labels have emerged which have begun to probe the structure and composition of pathological protein deposits . Two classic examples include the discovery of the prion protein and formulation of the protein-only hypothesis of prion disease  , and the discovery of the Alzheimer amyloid peptide   and formulation of the amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease ( AD , reviewed by Musiek and Holtzman  ) . Identification of the protein components of pathological deposits has traditionally involved the partial biochemical purification of detergent-insoluble proteins present in a tissue specimen followed by protein sequencing . Immunohistochemical methods are then used to confirm that the identified proteins are bona fide constituents of the pathological deposits . In addition to being costly and labor intensive , another major limitation of biochemical purification of protein deposits is that soluble protein components associated with the core aggregates are likely to be lost during fractionation . Identifying deposit-associated soluble proteins could further our understanding of disease mechanisms . A different strategy that can preserve some of the deposit-associated soluble proteins is laser capture microdissection  , in which protein deposits are lifted intact out of sections of the fixed specimen; their protein compositions are then determined by mass spectrometry  . Thus , for features smaller than ∼10 µm—such as inclusion bodies , small amyloid plaques , narrow fibers , and other irregularly shaped structures—LCM analysis permits enrichment but not complete isolation of target proteins; samples are diluted with extraneous surrounding material . Many of these approaches have been brought to bear on amyloid  plaques in AD brain tissue , in an attempt to identify core components , if any , in addition to Aβ . Early LCM studies utilizing 2D gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry have detected a modest number of plaque-associated proteins , including an assortment of proteins associated with cell signaling , chaperone function , membrane trafficking , and proteolysis  . A more recent LCM study has suggested that amyloid plaques in AD are highly homogenous structures that are composed almost exclusively of Aβ  . The latter study , however , employed sample washing steps with 1% SDS , which may strip away soluble plaque-associated proteins . Finally , a recent attempt to capture more plaque-associated proteins potentially lost to LCM examined the sarkosyl-insoluble fraction of brain samples from patients with AD and appropriate controls  . Altered levels of eleven specific proteins were identified by this approach but colocalization with amyloid plaques was difficult to validate in many cases—not all insoluble proteins within the brain will necessarily originate from senile plaques . A recent proteomic analysis of fractions obtained from differential centrifugation procedures that yield fractions enriched in post-synaptic proteins have demonstrated that the post-synaptic protein IRSp53 was highly down-regulated in AD  . While extant LCM and biochemical fractionation studies have identified candidate plaque-associated proteins , significant mechanistic insights have not been produced . In STOMP , laser light from the microscope is used not only to image the fluorescently stained specimen , but also to photochemically crosslink affinity purification ligands to protein components within pathological deposits  . The photo-affinity ligand or photo-tag used here is a peptide of sequence: 4-benzoylbenzyl-Gly-His-His-His-His-His-His-CONH2   . The 6HisBP photo-tag molecule  is of similar size to Congo red  and should have a similar ability to penetrate biological specimens . The specimen is fixed and permeabilized in methanol , then protein deposits in the specimen are selectively stained using antibodies or specific fluorescent dyes . The specimen is then soaked in a solution of 6HisBP to saturate the subcellular compartments with the photo-tag , and imaged using conventional confocal microscopy . The wavelength of the confocal laser is in the visible range and does not excite the UV-absorbing photo-tag . Optical sectioning by confocal microscopy is used to collect a 3D image of the protein deposits in the specimen . This image in turn is used to generate a list of spatial coordinates—a ‘mask’ file—identifying every point in the tissue containing pathological protein deposits  . Overview of STOMP technology . The STOMP excitation volume is limited approximately to the point spread function of a high numerical aperture lens  compared to ∼10 µm for LCM . Overview of the STOMP protocol . The final image shown is anti-His tag immunofluorescence corresponding to areas of photo-tag crosslinking . Silver stain of SDS-PAGE of material retrieved from selective STOMP of CRND8 mouse plaques  or non-plaque regions of an adjacent brain section  . Load is 1% of total protein after solubilization of tissue . Note that the predominant protein photo-tagged in the STOMP sample is Aβ  , which is not visible in the non-plaque experiment because of its low overall abundance . 003 The photo-tagging procedure uses two-photon microscopy  rather than conventional confocal microscopy . The STOMP macro provides a semi-automated tool for photo-tagging proteins in pathological deposits . Importantly , unlike LCM , no manual tracing of features is required with STOMP . The smallest photo-tagging volume is less than 0 . A single voxel in a TgCRND8 tissue section was photo-tagged . The volume of photo-excitation was measured by confocal fluorescence imaging of the resulting photo-tagged spot . Cross correlation of spectral counts for all protein identifications are shown for duplicate runs of STOMP analysis on human amyloid plaque material . Biological replicates of STOMP analysis of amyloid plaque material from TgCRND8 mice show good repeatability . Using our thresholding criteria  one sample run  identified fewer total proteins than the other  , however most proteins identified in P1 were also detected in P2 . 006 We rely on reversible binding of photo-tagged proteins using nickel affinity chromatography . Histidine-rich proteins ubiquitous in all mammalian tissues represent potential contaminants that could bind the nickel affinity beads and confound the STOMP analysis . After completion of the photo-tagging step , the specimen is solubilized in buffer containing 2% SDS , 8 M urea , and β-mercaptoethanol  . The photo-tagged proteins are purified using nickel affinity beads that bind the hexahistidyl moiety of 6HisBP . To establish the spatial resolution limits of our photo-tagging procedure , we tagged single-voxel spots within sections of methanol-fixed murine brain tissue . By subsequently staining the tissue with an anti-hexahistidine antibody , we were able to use confocal immunofluorescence imaging to directly visualize and measure the extent of the photo-tagged volume . We used TgCRND8 mice , a well-characterized transgenic mouse model of AD  , as a model system for the development of the STOMP technique . These mice express a human form of the amyloid precursor protein carrying two mutations associated with familial AD , and they produce amyloid plaques and exhibit spatial learning impairments by 3 months of age . This study used frozen sections  of the brains known to contain plaques , from TgCRND8 mice of 8 months of age . Slides were imaged by confocal microscopy to identify ThS-positive amyloid deposits . Confocal images of ThS-positive amyloid deposits  were used to construct individual masks  . Adjacent sections were put aside as ‘dark’ controls used to assess the extent of non-specific labeling of 6HisBP to proteins caused by confocal laser light  exposure or other handling , and to assess nonspecific binding of proteins to nickel affinity beads . The STOMP macro was used to deliver two-photon excitation light to regions of the specimen corresponding to each pixel in the mask image . First , and most importantly , it photo-activates 6HisBP molecules that are in the amyloid deposits causing photo-tagging of constituent proteins . Second , it serendipitously photo-bleaches the ThS fluorophores present in regions of the specimen targeted by the mask . Immunofluorescence staining of the tissue section with anti-His6 antibody after photo-activation superimposes on the digital mask , thus highlighting the very high accuracy of targeting of the two-photon laser  . STOMP combines microscopy with selective photo-labeling to accurately resolve , capture , and affinity-label highly irregular shaped micron-scale structures , via a semi-automated procedure . After solubilization of the specimen , the photo-tagged proteins were bound to nickel affinity beads . The dark control sample , which—aside from two-photon excitation—was treated identically to the STOMP sample , was run alongside the STOMP sample . It shows very few bands in the silver-stain gel from material bound to the nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid  beads compared to the STOMP sample , confirming that nonspecific photo-tagging and nonspecific binding of proteins to the nickel affinity beads is minimal . In addition to a number of proteins ranging in molecular weight from 20 kDa to >250 kDa , the STOMP sample contains large amounts of a low molecular weight protein that was subsequently identified as Aβ   . Proteins statistically significantly enriched in the amyloid plaques of TgCRND8 mouse brain identified and retrieved by STOMPDOI: http://dx . 007ProteinUniprot IDSTOMP countsSAINT scorePrevious reports of enrichment in plaques  Amyloid beta A4 proteinP120233780 . 83Detected , enrichedSynaptosomal-associated protein 25P60879881 . 00Detected , not enrichedCytochrome c1Q9D0M3700 . 00Detected , not enrichedV-type proton ATPase subunit BP62814560 . 80Detected , enrichedVesicle-associated membrane protein 2P63044520 . 87Detected , not enrichedPyruvate kinase isozymes M1/M2P52480490 . 98Detected , not enrichedFructose-bisphosphate aldolase AP05064471 . 92Previously unreportedGuanine nucleotide-binding protein G  subunit alphaP18872410 . 97Detected , not enrichedTubulin alpha-1B chainP05213390 . 98Detected , not enriched4-aminobutyrate aminotransferaseP61922390 . 00Detected , not enrichedV-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit AP50516370 . 99Detected , enrichedAralar 1Q8BH59371 . 00Detected , enrichedAlpha-internexinP46660300 . 98Detected , not enrichedFructose-bisphosphate aldolase CP05063280 . 91Detected , not enrichedSynapsin-2Q64332270 . 89Detected , not enrichedDynamin-1P39053260 . 99Detected , not enrichedNADH dehydrogenase 1 alpha subcomplex subunit 10 , mitochondrialQ99LC3240 . 89Detected , not enrichedSpectrin alpha chain , brainP16546221 . 99Detected , not enrichedSynapsin-1O88935200 . 00Detected , not enrichedHeat shock protein HSP 90-alphaP07901180 . 00Detected , not enrichedNADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase 75 kDa subunit , mitochondrialQ91VD9160 . 85Detected , not enrichedNeurochondrinQ9Z0E0150 . 97Detected , not enrichedHeat shock protein HSP 90-betaP11499140 . 93Detected , not enrichedMicrotubule-associated protein 6Q7TSJ2130 . 87Detected , not enrichedSerine/threonine-protein phosphatase 2A 65 kDa regulatory subunit A alpha isoformQ76MZ3110 . 80Detected , not enrichedCatenin beta-1Q02248110 . 83Detected , not enrichedTenascin-RQ8BYI9100 . 93Detected , not enrichedPyruvate carboxylase , mitochondrialQ0592090 . As an additional control , an entire brain section fixed in methanol and soaked with photo-tag was photo-activated by exposure to 365 nm ultraviolet light . Section-wide photo-activation of this specimen caused indiscriminate photo-tagging of proteins in the specimen . Gel electrophoresis of the indiscriminately photo-tagged proteins reveals a very different pattern of protein bands compared to the specimen in which amyloid plaques were specifically targeted for STOMP analysis  . Greater amounts of tissue will increase sensitivity and enable identification of lower abundance proteins , particularly in very complex samples containing a large number of unique proteins . In this study , we were able to identify proteins present in relative abundance in the pathological feature being examined using a total photo-tagged volume of approximately 2 × 106 µm3 . Two frozen sections of TgCRND8 brain tissue were sufficient to produce the necessary volume of photo-tagged tissue required for one STOMP experiment , and the process required a total of 12–16 hr of microscope time per sample  . Based on our determination of the resolution of STOMP , regions of interest  as small as 0 . Protein identification via mass spectrometry involved on-bead digestion of the photo-tagged proteins with endoproteinase Lys-C followed by trypsin and LC-MS/MS analysis . We performed technical and biological replicates of the proteomic analyses of our STOMP experiment . The list of all identified proteins in amyloid plaques of TgCRND8 mice based on our high stringency criteria is summarized in Table 1 . The aim of STOMP is to provide a compendium of annotated proteins present within the ROI under study—whether or not they are enriched or depleted relative to the surrounding tissue . As expected , the most abundant protein found in STOMP from TgCRND8 mouse plaques was Aβ  . In addition to Aβ , we identified 454 proteins in at least one of two biological replicates  . We found 62 proteins with probability >0 . 8 of being found associated with the plaques , and 146 with probability >0 . Among these , synaptosomal proteins were highly enriched , including SNAP25 , vesicle-associated membrane protein 2  , vesicular proton pump ATPase  , and synapsins 1 and 2 . Apolipoprotein E , which is sometimes associated with senile plaques  , was also detected , albeit at a SAINT score of 0 . Certain common synaptic markers—including chromogranin A/C , synaptophysin , synaptogyrin I , synaptoporin , α-synuclein , and VGLUT1 and 2—were not detected in the plaques . Interestingly , the plaques were also devoid of uniquely post-synaptic proteins . We also identified many mitochondrial proteins; although the reason for this is unclear , it may be that the intrinsic hydrophobicity of mitochondrial membrane proteins may predispose them to associate with amyloid plaques . Comparison with proteins found from STOMP analysis of non-plaque areas revealed only limited overlap  ; VAMP2 , synapsin 1 , and dynamin 1 are present in both plaque and non-plaque STOMP analysis but are significantly greater enriched in the plaque STOMP samples . Using confocal microscopy , we examined colocalization of ThS-positive plaques with immunfluorescently labeled Aβ , SNAP25 , VAMP2 , v-ATPase , synapsin 1 , and ApoE . All were found to be present and are apparently genuine components of the amyloid plaque  . Optical sectioning demonstrates the presence of each of these proteins in the core of the amyloid plaques suggesting they were incorporated at the earliest stages of plaque formation . Staining of SNAP25 , VAMP2 , and v-ATPase reveal an immunopositive halo surrounding each of the plaques indicating an accumulation of these proteins not only in the amyloid core but also in the vicinity of the plaques; interestingly , synapsin 1 immunostaining did not have this halo . Immunofluorescent confirmation of synaptic proteins in amyloid plaques of TgCRND8 mice . Colocalization of ThS-stained plaques with beta-amyloid positive control  and the synaptic proteins ATP6V1B2  , SNAP25  , VAMP2  , synapsin 1  , and ApoE  . ATP6V1B2 , SNAP25 , and VAMP2  all show a halo of elevated protein concentration in the region surrounding the dense core of the plaque . 008 As mentioned above , certain common synaptic markers were not detected by the STOMP analysis . Immunostaining of some of these markers , syntaxin 1 , synaptophysin , and α-synuclein , confirmed that these proteins are not concentrated in the amyloid plaques  . α-Synuclein has been reported to be associated with senile plaques in human patients with AD; however , TgCRND8 mice are known to not accumulate α-synuclein in their plaques  . Common synaptic or disease-associated proteins in plaques of TgCRND8 mice not detected by STOMP are also absent by immunofluorescence . The SNARE protein syntaxin-1  , synaptic marker synaptophysin  , the neuronal protein alpha-synuclein  are absent from ThS-positive plaques  . Staining of the glial protein GFAP  surrounds the ThS-positive plaques but does not infiltrate the plaque core  . 009 It is not clear why the amyloid deposits contain some pre-synaptic proteins , but not others , and are devoid of post-synaptic proteins . One possibility is that damaged dystrophic neurites that are known to surround the plaques  are spilling their contents and the physical properties of certain pre-synaptic proteins cause them to bind with especially high affinity to amyloid plaques . In this regard , it is noteworthy that many of these proteins are membrane proteins with coiled coil domains  . Another possibility , which is not mutually exclusive and provides an explanation for the presence of pre-synaptic proteins in plaques , is that Aβ fibrils and/or oligomers bind directly to synaptic vesicles and interfere with synaptic function . In post-mortem AD tissue and in transgenic AD mice , an inverse correlation between levels of Aβ oligomers and levels of synaptic proteins was noted  . The reduction in the levels of detectable synaptic protein in AD tissue may be the result of the aggregation and entrapment of the synaptic proteins in the amyloid plaques . In sum , the STOMP technique has provided clear evidence of interaction of amyloid plaques with pre-synaptic proteins . After developing the STOMP method using brain sections of TgCRND8 mice as the test subject , we applied the technique to senile plaques from a case of AD . Furthermore , formalin , the fixative of choice for human tissue , causes covalent modification of proteins and confounds mass spectrometry analysis . These limitations notwithstanding , we find the STOMP technique is suitable for the analysis of formalin-fixed post-mortem human tissue . Senile plaques from brain sections of a severe case of AD were visualized with ThS and photo-tagged using a procedure identical to that used for the TgCRND8 tissue . Mass spectrometry analysis of the protein composition of these senile plaques identified 60 proteins that were statistically significantly enriched , with Aβ being the most abundant protein component  . Synaptic proteins and proteins involved in synaptic vesicle transport comprised 15% of the abundant protein component of the plaques . For validation of the STOMP analysis of senile plaques , immunofluorescence staining was employed , revealing that GFAP and SNAP25 were detected by both immunofluorescence , while tau and α-synuclein were not detected by either technique  . Proteins statistically significantly enriched in senile plaques from a patient with AD identified and retrieved by STOMPDOI: http://dx . 010ProteinUniprot IDSTOMP countsDark countsPrevious reports of enrichment in plaques  Amyloid beta A4 proteinP050678980 . 00Detected , enrichedTubulin alpha-1A chainQ71U3639 . 99Detected , not enrichedTubulin beta-2A chainQ1388523 . 51Detected , not enrichedActin , cytoplasmic 1P6070913 . 00Detected , enrichedAlpha-internexinQ1635210 . 90Previously unreportedSynaptosomal-associated protein 25P608809 . 00Detected , not enrichedCarbonyl reductase  1P161529 . 00Detected , not enrichedATP synthase subunit beta , mitochondrialP065769 . 00Detected , enrichedTubulin polymerization-promoting proteinO948116 . 00Detected , enrichedVesicle-associated membrane protein 2P630273 . 00Detected , not enrichedPyruvate dehydrogenase E1 component subunit betaP111773 . 00Detected , not enrichedFructose-bisphosphate aldolase CP099723 . 00Detected , not enrichedFerritin light chainP027923 . 00Detected , not enrichedNeurofilament heavy polypeptideP120363 . 89Detected , not enrichedCytochrome c1 , heme protein , mitochondrialP085742 . 00Detected , not enrichedPhosphoglycerate mutase 1P186692 . 00Detected , not enrichedBeta-actin-like protein 2Q562R12 . 00Detected , not enrichedTransketolaseP294012 . 00Detected , not enrichedAlpha-enolaseP067332 . 00Previously unreported40S ribosomal protein S8P622412 . 00Previously unreported60 kDa heat shock protein , mitochondrialP108092 . 00Detected , not enrichedStress-70 protein , mitochondrialP386462 . 00Detected , enrichedFascinQ166581 . 00Detected , not enriched6-phosphogluconolactonaseO953361 . 00Detected , not enrichedGlutamine synthetaseP151041 . 00Detected , not enrichedElongation factor Tu , mitochondrialP494111 . 00Detected , not enrichedTubulin alpha-4A chainP683661 . 00Previously unreportedDihydropyrimidinase-related protein 4 iO145311 . 00Detected , not enrichedMicrotubule-associated protein 6Q96JE91 . 29Detected , not enrichedPrelamin-A/CP025451 . 00Detected , not enrichedNADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase 75 kDa subunitP2833110 . 00Detected , not enrichedCoronin-1CQ9ULV40 . 00Detected , enrichedFumarate hydratase , mitochondrialP079540 . 00Previously unreportedSerine/threonine-protein kinase PAK 1Q131530 . 00Detected , enrichedContactin-associated protein 1P783570 . 00Detected , not enrichedHeat shock protein HSP 90-alphaP079000 . 00Detected , enrichedAconitate hydratase , mitochondrialQ997980 . 00Detected , not enrichedSpectrin alpha chain , brainQ138130 . 00Detected , not enrichedMicrotubule-associated protein 1BP468210 . Immunofluorescent confirmation of results of STOMP analysis of senile plaques in a case of AD . Immunofluorescent confirmation of results of STOMP analysis of senile plaques in a case of AD . GFAP  , a marker of glial cells , surrounds the ThS-positive plaques and partially infiltrates the plaque core  . Tau in dystrophic neurites  surrounds the ThS-positive plaques but does not infiltrate the plaque core  . α-synuclein  is absent from ThS-positive plaques  . SNAP25 colocalizes with ThS-positive plaques in thiscase of AD  . 011 Gliosis is a well-known feature of AD , and reactive glial cells are often found surrounding amyloid plaques  . Glial proteins , GFAP and excitatory amino acid transporter   , were both detected in  senile plaques  ; however , only EAAT was detected in TgCRND8 amyloid plaques  . This apparent discrepancy is likely due to astrocytes being more intimately associated with amyloid plaques in human tissue  compared to plaques in the TgCRND mouse  . Tau protein was also not among the abundant plaque proteins . Immunofluorescence staining shows that tau , which is contained in dystrophic neurites that surround the plaques , do not occupy the same physical space as the plaques and were hence not detected in the STOMP analysis  . SNAP25 , on the other hand , was detected in the STOMP analysis and was seen to colocalize with senile plaques  and amyloid plaques from TgCRND8 mice  . α-synuclein is part of the NAC  of plaques—with a possible role in fibril formation but not part of the plaque core  . These proteins were found not to be enriched in the plaques of this case of AD as detected by both STOMP analysis  or by immunofluorescent staining  . Immunohistochemical staining of pre-synaptic proteins , SNAP25 , VAMP2 , and synaptophysin in senile plaques from human patients with AD was similar to the immunofluoresence staining in the AD mice , with some notable differences  . Senile plaques in the human AD tissue were positive for both SNAP25 and VAMP2 . However , synaptophysin staining , which was absent in the amyloid deposits of AD mice , displayed a unique punctate lobular profile that decorated the periphery of the plaque in the human tissue  . These STOMP analyses demonstrate the molecular differences of amyloid deposits in AD mice compared to senile plaques in AD patients , but confirm the segregation of these pre-synaptic proteins in and around amyloid plaques and point to their potential importance in AD pathophysiology . The amyloid plaques  are positive for VAMP2 and SNAP25 , whereas synaptophysin does not stain the core of the plaques and punctate lobular profiles decorating the plaque are positive for synaptophysin . 012 Some proteins identified by STOMP  were detected in previous LCM-based studies; however , with the exception of v-ATPase and dynamin , these proteins were not previously shown to be significantly or sufficiently enriched compared to the control samples  . The highly specific nature of STOMP protein labeling and recovery permits very sensitive detection of proteins present in plaques , even if those proteins are also abundant in the remainder of the brain . We have shown that the STOMP technique can be used to determine the proteomic composition of micron-scale microscopic features . Using amyloid plaques in TgCRND8 mice as a test subject , we demonstrated that STOMP is capable of determining the protein composition of pathological deposits in neurodegenerative disease . Our discovery that there is an accumulation of certain pre-synaptic proteins in AD plaques and in TgCRND8 mice provides direct evidence for an association between amyloid plaque formation and synaptic function . While our initial work in characterizing amyloid deposits in mouse brain used methanol fixed tissues to minimize problems with solubilizing tissue , our experience with human AD pathological tissue shows that STOMP of formalin-fixed archival tissue is possible . The STOMP technique is ideally suited for determination of the compositions of intracellular protein inclusions seen in ALS and FTD . In developing the STOMP technique , we have focused on identification of photo-tagged proteins , however , the nonspecific nature of benzophenone photochemistry should cause photo-tagging of nonprotein components as well . In this regard , the STOMP technique can easily be modified to identify the RNA composition of biological features . Transgenic CRND8  mice express a transgene that encodes human amyloid precursor protein  harboring both the ‘Swedish’ double mutation KM670/671/NL and the additional ‘Indiana’ point mutation V717F; they develop dense-cored amyloid plaques and neuritic pathology by 5 months of age  . Sections were stained with 1% ThS . For each STOMP sample , a ‘dark’ control was prepared from an adjacent section . 44 µm using a 20× 1 . Masks containing only amyloid plaques were created using the following four-step process in ImageJ  . Dense-cored plaques were highlighted with the ‘Threshold’ tool . Finally , the ‘Erode’ method was used to trim a single-pixel  margin from the mask edge , to ensure that only material definitely within the plaque would be photo-tagged . A detailed description of the STOMP macro interface available in Source code 1 . The total volume photo-activated was approximately 2 × 106 µm3 per sample  . TgCRND8 brain sections  were soaked in 6HisBP solution , and a single pixel spot was photo-tagged using the STOMP macro as described above . Unbound photo-tag was then washed out of the section with several changes of PBS . 
Disruption of the Frizzled3  gene leads to defects in axonal growth in the VIIth and XIIth cranial motor nerves , the phrenic nerve , and the dorsal motor nerve in fore- and hindlimbs . In Fz3−/− limbs , dorsal axons stall at a precise location in the nerve plexus , and , in contrast to the phenotypes of several other axon path-finding mutants , Fz3−/− dorsal axons do not reroute to other trajectories . Motor neurons represent an attractive system in which to study axonal growth and guidance because motor axons generally grow over great distances along highly stereotyped pathways . Motor neurons in the brainstem extend their axons within cranial nerves to control muscles involved in feeding , facial expression , and eye , neck , and head movements  . Motor neurons in the spinal cord are arranged in longitudinal columns along the rostrocaudal axis , and the neurons in different columns innervate distinct peripheral targets  . Spinal motor neurons in the lateral motor column  innervate the limbs and are therefore present only at brachial and lumbar levels . Sema3A , which is produced throughout the limb bud mesenchyme , acts on Npn1-expressing motor axons shortly after these axons emerge from the spinal cord to control the timing of outgrowth and axon fasciculation; and Sema3F , which is produced in the dorsal limb mesenchyme , repels Npn2-expressing LMCM axons to promote a ventral trajectory . GDNF , which is produced in the dorsal limb bud , attracts LMCL axons , which express high levels of the Ret receptor . Ephrin-A , which is produced in the ventral limb bud , repels LMCL axons , which express EphA4 . The experiments described here reveal an important role for Frizzled signaling in motor axon growth . In mammals , two of the ten Frizzled family members—Frizzled3  and Fz6—appear to be devoted largely or exclusively to tissue polarity signaling . Fz6 controls hair orientation , and Fz3 and Fz6 act redundantly to control inner ear sensory hair cell orientation and neural tube closure  . Among Frizzled receptors , Fz3 is unique in its role in controlling axon guidance in the central nervous system  , where it is required for the development of major fiber tracts , including the corpus callosum , and the thalamocortical , corticothalamic , and nigrostriatal tracts  . Fz3 appears to be part of a system that provides directional information to growing axons , as indicated by the observation that in Fz3−/− embryos commissural sensory axons in the spinal cord orient randomly instead of turning rostrally after midline crossing  . Fz3 and Celsr1-Celsr3 are also required for caudal and tangential migration of VIIth cranial  nerve neurons within the developing brainstem  . In the periphery , Fz3 and Celsr3 are required for correctly orienting enteric neurons within the gastrointestinal tract , and Fz3 is required for the development of sympathetic chain ganglia and innervation of sympathetic targets  . In the present work , we have identified a hitherto unrecognized role for Fz3 in the growth of motor axons . Using conventional and conditional loss-of-function alleles for Fz3 , we show that Fz3 is required for a subset of cranial and spinal motor axons to grow to their peripheral targets . In the limb , the absence of Fz3 leads to a specific stalling defect among LMCL axons that is distinct from the phenotypes produced by defects in several other signaling systems active in limb axon guidance . Affected cranial and spinal motor neurons die shortly after their axons stall , providing in vivo evidence for the general idea that as growing axons arrive at intermediate targets essential survival signals are relayed to their cell bodies . Fz3 is widely expressed in the developing mouse CNS , and therefore it seemed possible that its loss might impair neurodevelopmental processes other than those previously described in the forebrain  . We also used the Hb9-EGFP transgene to visualize spinal motor axons , including the phrenic nerve , and the motor component of a subset of cranial nerves  . 5 Fz3−/− embryos anti-NF immunostaining revealed a thinning of the XIIth  nerve  , the phrenic nerve  , and the dorsal nerves of the fore- and hindlimbs  . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/− diaphragms co-stained for GFP and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors  showed variability in phrenic nerve thickness within the diaphragm that correlated with nerve branching defects , and a decrease in the number of neuromuscular junctions  . Defects in the XIIth cranial  and phrenic nerves in Fz3−/− embryos . Anti-NF immunostaining shows thinned XIIth and phrenic nerves  in E11 . 5 Fz3−/− embryos . The nerve roots and the proximal segment of the XIIth nerve appear to be unaffected . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/− embryos . Among 23 Fz3−/− hemi-diaphragms analyzed , the frequencies of these classes were 4/23 , 14/23 , 4/23 , and 1/23 , respectively  . Among 42 wildtype  or Fz3+/− control hemi-diaphragms , all showed complete diaphragm innervation , with alpha-BTX binding sites tightly clustered at nerve terminals  . Most peripheral nerves are composed of both motor and sensory axons , and therefore a defect in one of these components would be expected to produce a decrease in nerve thickness but not a complete absence of the nerve when visualized with NF immunostaining . To search selectively for defects in cholinergic neurons , including motor neurons , we examined Fz3−/− embryos that carried a ChAT-IRES-Cre knock-in allele and a Cre-controlled alkaline phosphatase  reporter , R26iAP  . 5 for histochemical labeling of both cholinergic cell bodies and axons . Since Fz3−/− mice die as neonates , the high sensitivity of the ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP method recommended it for surveying late prenatal cholinergic axons . 5 ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/− forebrains , but a major cholinergic fiber tract passing through the striatum is missing  . In Fz3−/− brains , cortical and thalamic axons fail to enter the internal capsule and , as a result , the cerebral cortex and the thalamus are disconnected  . 5 Fz3−/− forebrain could depend on the same internal capsule navigation system that instructs cortical and thalamic fibers  . Diverse defects in cholinergic neurons shown by AP histochemisty in ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/− embryos . Forebrain cholinergic neurons in consecutive coronal sections . The major cholinergic fiber tract passing through the striatum is missing in the Fz3−/− forebrain  and  vs red arrowheads in  and ] . Innervation of facial muscles by the VIIth nerve in sagittal  and coronal  sections . In the Fz3−/− head , facial muscles are not innervated  . Innervation of tongue musculature by the XIIth nerve in sagittal  and coronal  tongue sections . In Fz3−/− embryos , the number of axons is reduced  . In Fz3−/− embryos , these neurons are markedly reduced  . Innervation of the diaphragm by the phrenic nerve visualized by AP histochemistry on flat-mount diaphragms . Branching is diminished and number of motor terminals is reduced in the moderately affected Fz3−/− diaphragm  . D , dorsal; V , ventral . Oculomotor  , trochlear  , and abducens  nerves and their target innervation are not affected by loss of Fz3 . 5 ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3+/−  and ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/−  mouse heads . Motor nuclei and axon tracts or nerves are indicated by arrows and arrowheads , respectively . 5 ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3+/−  and ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/−  heads . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  embryos , as shown in Figure 1A , A′ . The VIth nerve visualized by NF and GFP immunostaining on 100 µm-thick horizontal sections from E12 . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3+/−  and Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/−  heads . The VIth nerve visualized by GFP immunostaining on 700 µm-thick horizontal sections from E13 . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3+/-  and Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/−  embryos . The Vth  motor nerve and its target innervation are not affected by loss of Fz3 . The Vth motor nuclei and nerves visualized by AP staining on continuous coronal sections from E18 . 5 ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3+/−  and ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/−  mouse heads . Vth motor nuclei and axon tracts/nerves are indicated by arrows and arrowheads , respectively . Innervation of muscles of mastication by the Vth motor nerve visualized by AP staining on coronal sections from E18 . 5 ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3+/−  and ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/−  mouse heads . In Fz3−/− embryos , the number of axons is reduced  . The VIIth motor nucleus and nerve in consecutive coronal sections . The majority of Fz3−/− VIIth motor neurons fail to migrate cadually to rhombomere 6 . Arrows , VIIth motor nuclei; arrowheads , VIIth motor axons . The dorsal motor nucleus of the Xth nerve  , the motor nucleus of the XIIth nerve  , and axons from these nuclei  in consecutive coronal  and sagittal  sections . 006 AP-stained serial sections from ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3+/− and ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/− embryos at E18 . These include:  impaired caudal migration of neurons comprising the VIIth motor nucleus and a loss of motor innervation to the face  ;  diminished staining of cholinergic nerves within the palate and retro-orbital fissure  ; and  decreased motor innervation of the tongue by the XIIth nerve  . The defect in migration of VIIth motor neurons is consistent with that reported by Qu et al . By contrast , the IIIrd-VIth , Xth and XIIth motor nuclei appear unaltered in ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP;Fz3−/− embryos and the trajectories of their axons appear to be normal  . The ChAT-IRES-Cre;R26iAP reporter showed decreased innervation of the Fz3−/− diaphragm  , consistent with the analysis presented in Figure 1D–H′′ . The phrenic nerve defects may contribute to the respiratory distress that kills Fz3−/− neonates . By NF immunostaining of whole-mount E12 embryos , Wang et al . observed a series of discrete NF-rich clusters along the caudal half of the Fz3−/− spinal cord that appear to represent ectopic neurons  . Neural crest cell migration defects in Fz3−/− mice . NF immunostaining of whole-mount E11 embryos showing aberrant clusters of neurons along the dorsal edge of the caudal neural tube in Fz3−/− embryos . Islet1/2 , Brn3a , and Sox10 immunostaining in cross sections of the NF-rich clusters in Fz3−/− neural tubes at E12 . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  spinal cords . 5 Fz3−/− embryos , there is a ∼0 . 5 day delay in the appearance of apoptotic neurons within the DRG , as determined by immunostaining for activated Caspase3 , relative to Fz3+/− littermates  . 5 Fz3−/− embryos , which is devoid of dorsal clusters . The similar distributions along the spinal cord of dorsal clusters and delayed apoptosis suggested the possibility that in the lumber region of Fz3−/− embryos there may be an initial reduction in the number of NC cells arriving at the DRG , leading to decreased competition for peripheral targets and higher rates of survival of DRG neurons . In light of the essential role of Fz3 in the development of subsets of cranial motor neurons , we evaluated the role of Fz3 in the development of spinal motor neurons that innervate the limbs , a set for which the axonal projection patterns have been well defined  . NF immunostaining of E11 . 5 limbs showed that the nerve innervating the dorsal limb is moderately thinned in Fz3−/− forelimbs and moderately to severely thinned in Fz3−/− hindlimbs  . In the hindlimb , roughly 50% of Fz3−/− embryos exhibit a moderate defect , with a thinned dorsal nerve that is still visible along its distal trajectory . The remaining ∼50% of Fz3−/− embryos exhibit a severe defect , with a near absence of the dorsal nerve . Other nerves within the limb appear to be largely unaffected . Thinning of the dorsal motor nerve in Fz3−/− limbs . Diagram showing dorsal  and ventral  limb innervation by spinal motor nerves in control  and Fz3−/−  embryos . In Fz3−/− limbs , the dorsal nerve is thinned distal to the plexus at the base of the limb  . SC , spinal cord . NF immunostaining of whole-mount fore- and hindlimbs from E13 . 5 Fz3+/− and Fz3−/− embryos . Arrows  and arrowheads  indicate dorsal nerves , which are moderately thinner in Fz3−/− forelimbs and substantially thinner in Fz3−/− hindlimbs . Asterisks indicate the points at which axons stall in Fz3−/− limbs . 5 Fz3+/− and Fz3−/− embryos . Arrows  and arrowheads  indicate dorsal nerves , which are thinner in Fz3−/− limbs . Asterisks indicate the points at which axons stall in Fz3−/− limbs . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3+/+ and Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/− embryos  . Motor axons  are selectively eliminated from the dorsal nerve in mutant limbs  . The locations of two dorsal nerve measurements  and one ventral nerve measurement  are shown . The diameters of motor nerves at the locations shown in  were measured from NF immunostained whole-mount forelimbs  and hindlimbs  from two litters at E12 . Thinning of spinal motor nerves innervating the dorsal forelimb . 5 WT or Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  embryos , with depth coded by colors as in Figure 4B–F′ . Thinning of spinal motor nerves innervating the dorsal hindlimb . NF immunostaining on whole-mount hindlimbs from E13 . 5 WT or Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  embryos , with depth coded by colors as in Figure 4B–F′ . Number of dorsal nerves with different categories of phenotypes in WT and Fz3+/− vs Fz3−/− forelimbs and hindlimbs . Loss of Fz3 does not affect axial or body wall motor nerve trajectories . 5 WT  and Fz3−/−  embryos . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Fz3+/−  and Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/−  embryos . and  show axial motor nerves , and  and  show anterior body wall motor nerves . 011 To ascertain the motor vs sensory identity of the affected axons , we crossed the Hb9-EGFP transgene to Fz3 mutant mice to selectively label motor axons . GFP immunostaining of Hb9-EGFP;Fz3+/+ and Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/− limbs at E12 . 5 showed that motor axons are severely under-represented in the dorsal nerve in both fore- and hindlimbs in mutant embryos  . The affected axons derive from motor neurons in the lateral division of the lateral motor column  . Close examination of the pattern of NF immunostaining showed that the Fz3−/− defect occurs distal to the point where LMC axons separate into dorsal and ventral nerves . More specifically , in Fz3−/− limbs an abrupt decrease in diameter is observed in the dorsal nerve immediately distal to the emergence of its first major side branch  . Therefore , the defect in the Fz3−/− limb appears to be a stalling of LMCL axons at this location . To quantify this phenotype , we measured the thickness of the dorsal nerve proximal and distal to this point . We also measured the thickness of the ventral nerve at the same distance from the plexus  . In Figure 4N , moderate and severe phenotypes within the hindlimb are represented by distinct symbols , but the statistical analysis ignores this distinction and simply compares Fz3+/− and Fz3+/+ vs Fz3−/− littermates . For both the fore- and hindlimbs in Fz3−/− embryos , several findings emerge:  the thinning of the dorsal nerve is highly significant statistically and it occurs over a remarkably small interval , between the regions labeled DProximal and DDistal in Figure 4M;  proximal to position DProximal , dorsal nerve thinning is minimal and statistically insignificant;  the ventral nerve exhibits a small decrease in thickness in 5/6 comparisons , with 4/6 showing a difference that is statistically significant  , implying that dorsal nerve axons have not rerouted to the ventral nerve , which would have then shown an increase in thickness; and  the average nerve thickness , relative to the littermate controls , is 31% for the dorsal nerve in the hindlimb , 57% for the dorsal nerve in the forelimb , and 82% for the ventral nerve when averaged over fore- and hindlimbs . In Fz3−/− embryos , other classes of spinal motor axons appear to be unaffected , including medial motor column and hypaxial motor column axons that innervate axial muscles and body wall muscles , respectively  . Although Fz3 is widely expressed in the mouse spinal cord and brainstem , it appears to be uniquely required by only a subset of motor neurons . We next asked whether the primary cause of motor axon deficiency in the VIIth , XIIth , phrenic , and dorsal limb nerves in Fz3−/− mice is:  defective motor neuron differentiation ,  excessive motor neuron death , or  defective axon growth and/or guidance . Since the vast majority of Fz3−/− motor axons do not appear to follow erroneous trajectories  , aberrant path-finding is unlikely to be relevant . There are also no apparent defects in motor axon fasciculation in Fz3−/− embryos  . To distinguish among the remaining possibilities , we focused on LMCL motor neurons and their axons , because  these neurons can be unambiguously identified based on their patterns of transcription factor expression;  their axons can be clearly identified within the limb; and  several signaling pathways that control LMCL axon growth and guidance decisions provide points of comparison . In the developing mouse spinal cord , postmitotic motor neurons are generated between E9 and E11  . For example , Islet1 is expressed by LMCM motor neurons and Lhx1 is expressed by LMCL motor neurons , while Islet2 and Foxp1 are pan-LMC markers  . 5 lumbar-level spinal cords we observed that the LMCL pool  is present in Fz3−/− mice  . This result implies that Fz3 is not required for the initial specification of LMCL motor neurons . Abundance , differentiation , and apoptosis of motor neurons in Fz3−/− embryos , and the effects of suppressing apoptosis . Diagram showing the pattern of transcription factor expression in LMCL and LMCM motor neurons . SC , spinal cord; D , dorsal; V , ventral . Islet1 and Foxp1 expression in spinal motor neurons in cross sections of E11 . 5 Fz3+/− and Fz3−/− lumbar spinal cords . The broken white line encircles LMCM motor neurons . The number of LMCL  and LMCM  motor neurons per 14 µm frozen section in E12 . 5 Fz3+/− and Fz3−/− lumbar spinal cords . Motor neuron apoptosis visualized with Islet1/2 and cleaved Caspase3 immunostaining in cross sections of E11 . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  lumbar spinal cords . Reduced LMC volume in the Fz3−/− lumbar spinal cord visualized by comparing Islet1/2 and Foxp1 immunostaining in cross sections of E12 . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  lumbar spinal cords . Cell death in VIIth  , and XIIth  cranial motor nuclei  visualized with cleaved Caspase3 and NF immunostaining in horizontal sections of E12 . 5 Fz3+/− and Fz3−/− embryos . 5 Bax+/− , Fz3−/−;Bax−/− , and Fz3−/−;Bax+/− embryos . Arrows and arrowheads indicate the dorsal nerve . Precocious motor neuron death in Fz3−/− spinal cord is blocked by loss of Bax . Cell death in the ventral spinal cord at the brachial level visualized by cleaved Caspase3 and NF immunostaining on cross sections of E11 . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  embryos . In contrast to the ventrolateral spinal cord , there is no effect of Fz3 loss on cell death in the DRG . Cell death in the ventral spinal cord at the lumbar level visualized by cleaved Caspase3 and NF immunostaining on cross sections of E12 . 5 Fz3+/−  and Fz3−/−  embryos . In contrast to the ventrolateral spinal cord , there is no effect of Fz3 loss on cell death in the DRG . 5 Fz3+/−  , Fz3−/−  , and Fz3−/−;Bax−/−  lumbar spinal cords . Loss of Bax suppresses cell death in both the DRG and spinal cord . 013 To quantitatively assess motor neuron populations at a time when the Fz3−/− phenotype is fully manifest , we counted the number of LMCL neurons in serial cross sections from E12 . 5 lumbar-level spinal cords following Islet1 and Foxp1 immunostaining of three pairs of control and Fz3−/− littermate embryos . As both LMCM and LMCL neurons were counted in the same sections , the number of LMCM neurons served as an internal control . As shown in Figure 5C , C′ , in the region of the Fz3−/− spinal cord that contains LMCL neurons , the number of LMCL neurons was significantly decreased , while the number of LMCM neurons was similar to that in Fz3+/− controls  . In contrast , the numbers of both LMCM and LMCL neurons in more rostral regions were unaffected by loss of Fz3  . The decrease in LMCL neurons at E12 . 5 suggests that loss of Fz3 could lead—directly or indirectly—to LMCL motor neuron death . As expected , very few apoptotic cells were observed in Fz3+/− controls at E11 . In contrast , massive cell death is seen in the region corresponding to the LMC in the brachial and lumbar regions of the Fz3−/− spinal cord  . 5 the lumbar LMC volume is substantially smaller in Fz3−/− compared with Fz3+/− spinal cords  . Similarly , in the VIIth and XIIth cranial nerve nuclei at E12 . 5 , there is an analogous wave of precocious motor neuron death that is not observed in Fz3+/− controls  . Thus , in Fz3−/− embryos a discrete subset of motor neurons exhibits both axon growth defects and apoptotic cell death at E11 . The results thus far indicate that Fz3 inactivation could lead either to a primary defect in motor neuron viability that secondarily impairs axonal growth or a primary defect in axonal growth that secondarily impairs motor neuron viability . To distinguish these two possibilities , we used a Bax−/− background—in which loss of the proapoptotic molecule Bax largely eliminates apoptosis of motor neurons  —to ask whether blocking  motor neuron apoptosis rescues the Fz3−/− dorsal nerve defect . Although the precocious motor neuron death seen in Fz3−/− embryos was eliminated in Bax−/−;Fz3−/− embryos , the dorsal nerve defect at the base of the limbs remained unchanged  . Taken together , these data imply that in spinal motor neurons the primary phenotype resulting from loss of Fz3 is a defect in the growth of LMCL axons . We next asked whether the axonal phenotypes in Fz3−/− embryos reflect Fz3 action exclusively in CNS neurons . Based on the pattern of lacZ reporter expression from the original Fz3 null allele  , Fz3 expression appears to be far higher in the CNS than in other tissues  . However , rigorously answering this question requires selective inactivation of Fz3 in defined cell populations . To that end , we generated a Fz3 conditional allele  , in which LoxP sites flank exon 3 , the largest coding exon , within the Fz3 gene  . To eliminate Fz3 expression exclusively in CNS neurons , we controlled recombination with an Olig2Cre knock-in allele and found that Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− mice exhibit the complete spectrum of motor neuron phenotypes shown by Fz3−/− mice:  VIIth nerve axons do not form the well-defined C-shaped tract looping around the VIth cranial nerve nucleus  ;  the XIIth cranial nerve is markedly thinned and fails to innervate the tongue at E13 . 5  ;  the phrenic nerve is thinned  ; and  the dorsal nerves innervating the fore- and hindlimbs are thinned  . This experiment rules out any role for Fz3 in peripheral tissues . Fz3 expression in DRG neurons also appears to be irrelevant since Olig2Cre is not expressed in DRG neurons  , a conclusion that was further confirmed by inactivating the Fz3CKO allele specifically in DRG neurons with a Wnt1-Cre transgene  and observing that the dorsal nerves innervating the fore- and hindlimbs were unaffected  . These data imply that the LMCL motor axon defect is not an indirect consequence of Fz3-dependent effects on co-fasciculating sensory axons . Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− embryos recapitulate the motor neuron phenotype of Fz3−/− embryos . The VIIth cranial nerve axons visualized by NF immunostaining of horizontal sections through E12 . 5 Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/+  and Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/−  brainstems . In the Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− brainstem , the more rostromedial locations of the VIIth nerve cell bodies are apparent , and the VIIth nerve axons fail to loop around the VIth cranial nerve nucleus . The XIIth cranial nerve visualized by NF immunostaining in lateral views of whole-mount E11 . 5 Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/+  and Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/−  embryos . The XIIth nerve has a reduced diameter in Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− embryos . Innervation of tongue muscles by the XIIth cranial nerve visualized by GFP immunostaining in coronal sections of early E13 . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/+  and Hb9-EGFP;Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/−  embryos . The Hb9-EGFP;Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− tongue shows no motor innervation . The phrenic nerve visualized by NF immunostaining in lateral views of whole-mount E11 . 5 Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/+  and Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/−  embryos . The phrenic nerve has a reduced diameter in Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− embryos . 5 Fz3CKO/− and Olig2Cre/+;Fz3CKO/− embryos . Arrows and arrowheads indicate the dorsal nerve . Scale bars:  , 500 µm;  , 100 µm . Design of the Fz3CKO allele , and limb innervation in Wnt1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mice . Structure of the Fz3CKO allele . Top , partial genomic map of the third Fz3 coding exon . Middle , structure of the Fz3CKO targeting construct . Genotyping of WT and Fz3CKO/+ mice by Southern blotting with the flanking 5′ and 3′ probes shown in  after EcoR I digestion . NF immunostaining on whole-mount forelimbs  and hindlimbs  from E12 Fz3CKO/+  and Wnt1-Cre;Fz3CKO/−  embryos , with depth coded by color as in Figure 4B–F′ . Scale bar , 500 µm . 015 The perinatal death of Fz3−/− mice has , until now , prevented an analysis of the Fz3−/− phenotype in postnatal life . To circumvent this problem , we combined a Caudal-1  -Cre transgene with the Fz3CKO allele to inactivate Fz3 in all tissues caudal to the upper thorax before midgestation  . The postnatal viability of Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mice implies that structures critical for breathing and feeding develop normally . Like Fz3−/− embryos at E18 . 5 , Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mice exhibit plantar-flexed hindlimbs and a curled tail  . In Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− embryos at E12 . 5 , the thinning of the dorsal nerve in fore- and hindlimbs is indistinguishable from the thinning observed in Fz3−/− embryos  . Selective hindlimb muscle atrophy in response to the failure of motor innervation in Fz3−/− mice . P11 Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mouse exhibiting severe plantar flexion of the hind feet  and a curled tail  . 5 Fz3CKO/+ and Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− embryos . Arrows and arrowheads indicate the dorsal nerve . Scale bars:  , 500 µm;  , 100 µm . 5 Hb9-EGFP;Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− distal hindlimbs , the anterior compartment musculature  lacks motor innervation as visualized by GFP immunostaining . Extensive motor innervation is seen in the Hb9-EGFP;Fz3CKO/− littermate control that lacks the Cdx1-Cre transgene . Scale bar , 500 µm . Cross-sectional magnetic resonance images of P70 Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/+ and Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− hindlimbs show nearly complete degeneration and fibrosis of the anterior compartment musculature in the Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− distal hindlimb . NF immunostaining of whole-mount hindlimbs from E13 . 5 Fz3+/−;Ret+/− , Fz3−/−;Ret+/− , and Ret−/− embryos . In  , white arrows and arrowheads indicate the dorsal nerve . arrow and arrowhead colors: magenta indicates the dorsal nerve diameter proximal and white indicates the dorsal nerve diameter distal to the point where axons stall in Fz3−/− limbs  . Scale bars:  , 500 µm;  , 100 µm . Comparison of spinal motor axon growth and guidance defects in different knockout lines . In Fz3−/− embryos , many dorsal motor axons fail to grow beyond a proximal branch point , whereas in EphA4−/− , Gdnf−/− , and Ret−/− embryos , dorsal axons are misrouted to the ventral limb . Comparison of dorsal nerve anatomy in forelimbs with various combinations of Fz3 and Ret loss-of-function alleles . 5 Fz3+/−;Ret+/−  , Ret−/−  , and Fz3−/−;Ret+/−  embryos , with depth coded by color as in Figure 4B . Scale bars:  , 500 µm;  , 100 µm . 017 Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mice ambulate primarily with their forelimbs , which appear to be grossly normal , suggesting that the moderate thinning of the dorsal nerve in the forelimb does not seriously compromise innervation of the musculature . In cross sections of distal hind legs in Hb9-EGFP;Fz3−/− embryos at E15 . 5 , we observed a selective loss of motor innervation of the muscles of the anterior compartment  by the deep peroneal nerve  , and in adult Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− mice this same group of muscles is selectively and completely atrophied as determined by magnetic resonance imaging  . The severe plantar flexion of Fz3−/− and Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− hindfeet is readily understood from the anatomy of the limb musculature and its innervation  . The dorsal muscles in the embryonic limb become extensors and abductors , which are innervated by the peroneal nerve , while the ventral muscles become flexors and adductors , which are innervated by the tibial nerve . Failure of dorsal nerve development affects muscles in the anterior compartment , which dorsiflex the foot . As noted in the Introduction , defects in motor axon guidance in the dorsal limb have been described in EphA4−/− , Gdnf−/− , and Ret−/− embryos , and in each case dorsal motor axons are misrouted to the ventral limb . To compare one example of this class of mutants side-by-side with Fz3−/− and to examine the possibility of a genetic interaction between the Fz3 and the GDNF/Ret signaling pathways , we examined limb innervation phenotypes in Ret−/− , Fz3+/−;Ret+/− , and Fz3−/−;Ret+/− embryos  . This analysis provides no evidence for a genetic interaction between Fz3 and Ret , as Fz3+/−;Ret+/− hindlimb innervation is indistinguishable from WT , and Fz3−/−;Ret+/− hindlimb innervation is indistinguishable from Fz3−/−  . Our analysis of Ret−/− fore- and hindlimb innervation fully confirms previous descriptions  and shows that in Ret−/− hindlimbs the dorsal nerve is thinned to a similar extent both proximal and distal to the point at which Fz3−/− dorsal motor axons stall  and the ventral nerve is thicker than its counterpart in WT littermates , consistent with a rerouting of dorsal motor axons to the ventral nerve . These experiments confirm that the Fz3−/− dorsal motor axon phenotype is anatomically distinct from the phenotypes described in EphA4−/− , Gdnf−/− , and Ret−/− limbs  . Our observation that Fz3 promotes the initial step in NC migration represents a new connection between PCP signaling and NC migration . Fz3−/− embryos also exhibit subtle defects in the migration of monoaminergic neurons  and more severe defects in the migration of VIIth cranial nerve neurons  , but , in general , neuronal migration defects are not a prominent feature of the Fz3−/− phenotype . 5 , a time when only a small fraction of cells within the DRG are dying , the non-migratory NC-derived neuron clusters in Fz3−/− embryos show a high density of apoptotic cells . In this respect , it bears a conceptual , and possibly a mechanistic , resemblance to the rapid elimination of the Fz3−/− LMCL neurons with stalled axons . In the first category are the ∼1 day waiting period during which sensory and motor axons stall at the base of the developing chick hindlimb  and the alternating phases of stalling and growth that characterize motor axon path-finding in C . In the present study , the loss of Fz3 blocks growth but does not alter path-finding among dorsal limb motor axons , and therefore presents as a pure stalling phenotype . Among Fz3−/− LMCL neurons , a wave of cell death begins at E11 . 5 , well before LMCL axons have reached their final muscle targets , and 2 days before the normal wave of motor neuron cell death  . The precocious motor neuron death in Fz3−/− embryos is unlikely to reflect survival factors derived from skeletal muscle because even in the complete absence of skeletal myoblasts , myofibers , and muscle—a phenotype produced in Myf5−/−;MyoD−/− embryos—motor neuron cell death does not occur prior to E13 . Taken together , the Fz3−/− and Myf5−/−;MyoD−/− phenotypes imply that motor neuron survival between E11 . One class of models that could account for the precocious motor neuron death in Fz3−/− embryos invokes the existence of neuronal survival factors produced by intermediate targets along an axon’s trajectory , as suggested by in vitro co-culture experiments with spinal cord commissural axons and floor plate tissue  . The Fz3−/− experiments reported here provide in vivo evidence for this model , and suggest that the hypothesized survival factor  reside distal to the plexus but proximal to the developing muscle target . We note that alternative models are also consistent with the data , including , for example , the possibility of anti-survival signals at the point of Fz3−/− axon stalling . While the precocious cell death of Fz3−/− motor neurons can be rescued by eliminating Bax , the axon stalling phenotype remains unchanged . This observation is consistent with a model in which a defect in Fz3-dependent axonal growth induces apoptotic cell death , and it argues against an alternate model in which Fz3 functions in some other process to maintain cell viability , with defective axonal growth representing a secondary effect of the neuron’s impending demise . A corollary to this argument is that controlling axonal growth may be the only function of Fz3 in motor neurons . In earlier work , Fz3−/− , and Celsr3−/− forebrains were found to have essentially identical defects in multiple axon tracts  , and in Fz3−/− , Celsr3−/− , and Vangl2Lp/Lp spinal cords the commissural axons of dorsal horn sensory neurons were found to exhibit the same rostral turning defect  . The present work strongly suggests that , in the context of motor axon growth and guidance , Fz3 and one or more Celsr family members are also likely to act together in the same pathway . The axonal development phenotypes produced by loss of Fz3 or Celsr3 raise an apparent paradox if we imagine that Fz3 and Celsr3 sense and integrate environmental information to control axonal growth by forming the same type of cell-surface complexes in growth cones—and , in particular , in growth cone filopodia—as they do in epithelia . However , experiments with dissociated commissural neurons that express transfected Fz3 or Vangl2 tagged with fluorescent reporters show that Fz3 is enriched in intracellular vesicles and Vangl2 is localized throughout the growth cone plasma membrane with the highest concentration in filopodia  . The Fz3CKO allele was generated by homologous recombination in mouse embryonic stem  cells using standard techniques . The following mouse lines were also used: Fz3−/−  , Bax−/−  , R26iAP  , Hb9-EGFP  , ChAT-IRES-Cre  , Olig2Cre  , Wnt1-Cre  , and Cdx1-Cre  . The number of motor neurons on each section was manually quantified in ImageJ . P70 Cdx1-Cre;Fz3CKO/− and control mice from the same litter were fixed by cardiac perfusion . 
Both the embryonic and extraembryonic lineages of the early mouse embryo have seemingly co-opted TEs as enhancers , but there is little evidence that they play significant roles in gene regulation . Here we tested a set of long terminal repeat TE families for roles as enhancers in mouse embryonic and trophoblast stem cells . Epigenomic and transcriptomic data suggested that a large number of TEs helped to establish tissue-specific gene expression programmes . Genetic editing of individual TEs confirmed a subset of these regulatory relationships . Our results suggest that a subset of TEs are important for gene regulation in early mouse development , and highlight the importance of functional experiments when evaluating gene regulatory roles of TEs . On one hand , successful TEs are expected to display such active profiles , which serve the selfish interests of TEs but may act neutrally with respect to host fitness . On the other , TEs can be co-opted  by the host to serve gene regulatory roles , such as alternative promoters or enhancers  . The distinction between these two scenarios relies on approaches that query the causal links between TEs , gene expression and phenotype . Transcription factor  binding motifs hosted within the regulatory portion of TEs enable their expression in specific tissues  , presumably in a manner that enables vertical inheritance of new TE insertions via the germline . In this respect , mammalian preimplantation development is a seemingly well exploited context for TE expansion , driving genetic conflicts with the host , as well as creating opportunities for TE exaptation  . In the mouse , TE-derived regulatory activity has been implicated at multiple stages of preimplantation development . In ESCs , TE families such as RLTR13D6 bind key ESC TFs  , whereas a distinct subset  bind factors essential for the maintenance of the TSC state  . TE enhancer activity depends on the cooperative action of multiple TFs , whose binding motifs appear to have been already present in the corresponding ancestral TE insertions  . We identify a number of TEs that are important to drive expression of lineage-specific genes . However , our data suggest that these constitute a minority of all the putative TE-derived enhancers identified through bioinformatic analyses , highlighting the importance of functional tests when assessing the contribution of TEs to gene regulatory networks . To identify TEs with putative regulatory potential in embryonic and extraembryonic lineages of the blastocyst  , we focused on a set of TE families that were previously shown to be highly enriched for binding of key TFs in ESCs   or TSCs   . These putative ‘TE+ enhancers’ also displayed H3K4me1 marking  and were bound by multiple proteins normally associated with enhancer activity , such as p300 and the Mediator and cohesin complexes  . This stringent selection led to the identification of 634 TE+ enhancers in ESCs and 358 in TSCs , which represent respectively 9 . 6% and 13% of all the TE copies in the families considered . To estimate how many TE+ enhancers are potentially missed due to reduced read mappability , we simulated sequencing reads that produced ChIP-seq peaks at every TE of interest . After remapping , peak detection failed for 597 RLTR13D6/RLTR9 elements and 915 RLTR13D5/RLTR13B elements , raising the possibility that an additional substantial fraction of TEs from these families could harbour enhancer marks . As expected , RLTR13D6/RLTR9 elements only displayed enhancer-like profiles in ESCs and not in TSCs , whereas the reverse was true for RLTR13D5/RLTR13B elements  . To confirm that TE+ enhancers display a similar lineage asymmetry in vivo and assess the timing of enhancer activation , we analysed two ATAC-seq datasets from pre- and post-implantation embryos  . We found that 49% and 56% of the identified TE+ enhancers  display open chromatin in vivo at some point in early development , with a subset being already active in preimplantation embryos  . Both ESC and TSC TE+ enhancers show some asymmetry with respect to their chromatin status in the respective post-implantation lineages  , but the tissue specificity is more pronounced for TSC TE+ enhancers  . Following from the above observations and previous findings  , we asked more widely whether TE+ enhancers displayed tissue-specific open chromatin . For comparison , we also generated a list of ‘TE- enhancers’ with the same characteristics as TE+ enhancers  but that did not overlap any repetitive elements within the Repeatmasker annotation  . Strikingly , whilst a substantial proportion of ESC TE- enhancers displayed open chromatin in multiple tissues , TE+ enhancer activity was far more restricted to ESCs  . These results suggest that TE+ enhancers are particularly optimised for activity within their respective early embryonic tissues , possibly through the synergistic action of multiple TF binding events  . Co-option of TE+ enhancers may therefore particularly benefit genes that require highly tissue-specific expression . Despite their sequence similarity , only a relatively small fraction of TEs from any given family bear enhancer-like profiles . It was previously suggested that TE enhancer activity in the ESC and TSC contexts is determined by the presence of key TF binding motifs , which have otherwise been mutated in inactive TEs  . However , it remains unclear whether such motifs are fully determinant of TE enhancer activity . We therefore performed TF motif analyses of TE+ enhancer sequences . For comparison , we identified TEs from the same families with high read mappability but that did not display enhancer marks , henceforth termed ‘non-enhancer TEs’  . TE+ enhancers are on average longer than non-enhancer TEs , as expected if deletions remove key TF binding sites  . Nevertheless , there are many non-enhancer TEs that are full-length LTRs , prompting the question of what are the sequence determinants of enhancer activity . Focusing on long LTR elements  , we found enrichment of several motifs at TE+ enhancers  . However , no single motif was predictive of enhancer-like profiles  . For example , whilst SOX2 binding motifs were present in nearly all  RLTR13D6 and RLTR9E TE+ enhancers , a high proportion  of non-enhancer TEs also contained this motif . Notably , motifs for other TFs  that have been shown to cooperate with SOX2 for RLTR9E enhancer activity  were present in similar abundance at both enhancer and non-enhancer TEs  . For example , elements containing OCT4 , SOX2 and NANOG motifs accounted for 65% of TE+ enhancers and 21% of non-enhancer TEs in the RLTR13D6 family  , and few RLTR13D5 elements contained all three EOMES , ELF5 and CDX2 motifs  . We then asked whether TF binding motifs predicted plasmid-based enhancer activity better than they predict enhancer-like chromatin profiles . Using data from a high-throughput reporter assay in ESCs  , we found that SOX2 , OCT4 and NANOG binding motifs were present in only 12–30% of TEs with plasmid-based enhancer activity  . This suggests that simple sequence features , such as the motifs considered here , are poor predictors of TE enhancer activity , which is in line with recent findings in human ESC enhancers  . Notably , 64% of RLTR13D6/RLTR9 copies with enhancer activity in the reporter assay did not display an enhancer-like chromatin profile . We therefore asked whether TF binding and chromatin opening at non-enhancer TEs was repressed by chromatin features . As we previously described  , non-enhancer TEs display higher levels of DNA methylation than TE+ enhancers  . However , removal of DNA methylation did not lead to increased enhancer activity at non-enhancer TEs , as judged from ATAC-seq and ChIP-seq data from ESCs lacking DNA methylation   . Additionally , we found no evidence of other chromatin marks that could be maintaining TE enhancer activity repressed  . All together , these data show that TE enhancer capacity appears to behave non-deterministically with respect to TF motifs or repressive chromatin marks . To establish correlations between TE+ enhancer activity and gene expression , studies to date have largely relied on the linear proximity between TEs and genes . We therefore coupled TE+ enhancers to genes they putatively regulate based on promoter capture Hi-C  data that we recently generated in ESCs and TSCs  . Only 34–44% of TE+ enhancers interacted with at least one gene promoter , which was nonetheless higher than the proportion of non-enhancer TEs with gene promoter interactions  . In contrast , a high proportion of TE- enhancers  interacted with gene promoters . The contrast between TE+ and TE- enhancers could be explained by the fact that the latter are preferentially positioned within gene-rich , active regions  , whereas TE+ enhancers tend to be located within gene-poor , inactive regions  . Accordingly , TE+ enhancers and TE- enhancers interact with largely non-overlapping groups of genes  . To analyse correlations between enhancers and gene expression , we only considered genes that interact exclusively with TE+ or TE- enhancers  . For both ESCs and TSCs , we found that TE+ enhancers interacted with genes that displayed higher expression levels when compared to the genome-wide average or to genes interacting with non-enhancer TEs  . Given the tight tissue specificity of TE+ enhancer profiles that we described above  , we asked whether genes interacting with TE+ enhancers displayed lineage-specific expression . We first compared their expression in ESCs and TSCs and found a bias towards the cell type where the interacting TEs display enhancer profiles  . In contrast , the expression of genes interacting with TE- enhancers was on average similar between the two cell lineages . Strikingly , genes interacting with TE+ enhancers were , on average , almost exclusively expressed in ESCs or TSCs , whereas those interacting with TE- enhancers displayed high expression across a broad range of tissues  . These data are in line with the chromatin accessibility data and suggest that TE+ enhancers may be used to support lineage-specific expression of a subset of genes in early development . However , it is also possible for the correlations observed here to emerge in the absence of causal links between TEs and gene expression . To directly test for a functional role of TE+ enhancers in gene regulation , we performed CRISPR-mediated genetic excision of selected TEs . Based on the bioinformatic analyses above , we chose a set of 4 TEs in ESCs and 2 TEs in TSCs that display strong evidence of enhancer activity  . Most genes targeted by these TE+ enhancers , as predicted from PCHi-C data , had skewed expression towards ESCs or TSCs  . After genetically excising TE+ enhancers using pairs of sgRNAs  in multiple clones , we measured the effects on the expression of target genes . In ESCs , however , only one of the tested TEs had a pronounced effect on the expression of its main target gene  . Although the associated TE lies within the first intron of Tdrd12 , we found no evidence that it acted as an alternative promoter in ESCs  , supporting its role as an enhancer . Heterozygous deletion of the Smarcad1-interacting TE also led to a small but significant decrease in gene expression  . Excision of the remaining two TEs in ESCs had no effect on the expression of target genes  , including Akap12 , suggesting that the previously reported regulatory role of this TE is cell line-dependent  . Using ATAC-seq data from this line  , we first identified 98 TEs with biased chromatin accessibility signal across the two genetic backgrounds , suggestive of allele-specific enhancer activity . However , out of 52 genes within 100 kb of a TE-derived allele-specific enhancer , only four displayed a > 1 . Through these genetic approaches we have identified a small set of TEs that play a functional role in the regulation of gene expression in ESCs or TSCs . To test in a single experiment the regulatory roles of multiple TE+ enhancers in ESCs we performed CRISPR interference  targeted at RLTR13D6 elements . This included genes interacting with TE+ enhancers displaying a similar or greater H3K27ac loss to that observed at Tdrd12- or Spp1-associated RLTR13D6 elements . To validate the relatively small effect of some TE+ enhancers on gene expression , we performed additional genetic editing experiments . These results suggest that only a small minority of RLTR13D6 elements play a major role in the regulation of gene expression in ESCs . TEs are increasingly being presented as major contributors to gene regulatory networks in a variety of contexts  . In the absence of a substantial contribution of ESC TE+ enhancers to gene regulation , the striking correlations emerging from profiling efforts most likely reflect the fact that TE insertions are best tolerated in regions where their tissue-specific enhancer action matches the expression profiles of nearby genes . Whilst the enhancer activity of these TEs could be inconsequential for gene expression , this genomic ‘safe niche’ would be permissive for fixation by genetic drift . Additionally , we cannot exclude the possibility that some TE+ enhancers act redundantly with TE- enhancers , despite our attempt to isolate the effects of each of these enhancer groups . Such TEs could still be important to ensure regulatory robustness and , indeed , enhancer redundancy is a seemingly common feature of enhancer-gene networks  . Extensive genetic work will be necessary to evaluate what proportion of TE+ enhancers act in a redundant fashion with other regulatory elements . Indeed , other TEs considered here and whose effects we did not test by CRISPRi  , may play important roles in ESC and TSC gene regulation . Despite the neutral action of most TEs analysed here , we have uncovered a number of elements that act as key enhancers of gene expression in ESCs  and TSCs  . Notably , most exemplars of phenotypically relevant TE-derived regulatory elements have been uncovered by analysing naturally occurring phenotypes  . To identify TE+ enhancers , coordinates for RLTR9 , RLTR13D6 , RLTR13D5 and RLTR13B elements were taken from the mm10 RepeatMasker annotation and filtered to remove elements either intersecting H3K4me3 ChIP-seq peaks or lying within 500 bp of a TSS from the NCBI RefSeq annotation . To define TE- enhancers , ATAC-seq peaks that did not overlap any TEs annotated by RepeatMasker were used as a basis for potential enhancer regions . These regions were then filtered in the same manner as described for TE+ enhancers . Non-enhancer TEs were defined as mappable elements displaying low ATAC-seq signal . 5 were kept and from those with the lowest ATAC-seq signal selected as non-enhancer TEs . The number of elements selected for each class equated to twice the number of TE+ enhancers identified for the same class . To distinguish the putative effects of TE+ and TE- enhancers , only genes interacting exclusively with one type of enhancer were considered . Motif analysis of TE copies was performed using the FIMO tool of the MEME SUITE v5 . These were intersected with TE annotations to identify putative allele-specific TE-derived regulatory elements . RNA-seq data from the same cell line  were used to extract expression values for genes within 100 kb of allele-specific TE regulatory elements . 
C4 photosynthesis has independently evolved from the ancestral C3 pathway in at least 60 plant lineages , but , as with other complex traits , how it evolved is unclear . Here we show that the polyphyletic appearance of C4 photosynthesis is associated with diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that group into four major trajectories . We conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3 , C4 , or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis to parameterise a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape . The alternative evolutionary histories underlying the appearance of C4 photosynthesis were determined by ancestral lineage and initial phenotypic alterations unrelated to photosynthesis . We conclude that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers . This flexibility will have facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait . The convergent evolution of complex traits is surprisingly common , with examples including camera-like eyes of cephalopods , vertebrates , and cnidaria  , mimicry in invertebrates and vertebrates  and the different photosynthetic machineries of plants  . While the polyphyletic origin of simple traits  is underpinned by flexibility in the underlying molecular mechanisms , the extent to which this applies to complex traits is less clear . C4 photosynthesis is both highly complex , involving alterations to leaf anatomy , cellular ultrastructure , and photosynthetic metabolism , and also convergent , being found in at least 60 independent lineages of angiosperms  . As the emergence of the entire C4 phenotype cannot be comprehensively explored experimentally , C4 photosynthesis is an ideal system for the mathematical modelling of complex trait evolution as transitions on an underlying phenotype landscape . Furthermore , understanding the evolutionary events that have generated C4 photosynthesis on many independent occasions has the potential to inform approaches being undertaken to engineer C4 photosynthesis into C3 crop species  . Specific lineages of C4 species have typically been classified into one of three sub-types , based on the activity of these decarboxylases , as well as anatomical and cellular traits that consistently correlate with each other  . However , while a substantial amount of work has addressed the molecular alterations that generate the biochemical differences between C3 and C4 plants  much less is known about the order and flexibility with which phenotypic traits important for C4 photosynthesis are acquired  . To address these unknown aspects of C4 evolutionary history , we combined the concept of considering evolutionary paths as stochastic processes on complex adaptive landscapes  with the analysis of extant C3–C4 intermediate species to develop a predictive model of how the full C4 phenotype evolved . To parameterise the phenotypic landscape underlying photosynthetic phenotypes , data was consolidated from 43 studies encompassing 18 C3 , 18 C4 , and 37 C3–C4 intermediate species from 22 genera  . These C3–C4 species are from 18 independent lineages likely representing 18 distinct evolutionary origins of C3–C4 intermediacy   . These studies were used to quantify 16 biochemical , anatomical , and cellular characteristics associated with C4 photosynthesis  . Principal components analysis  was performed to confirm the phenotypic intermediacy of the C3–C4 species  . This result , the sister-group relationships of C3–C4 species with congeneric C4 clades  and the prevalence of extant C3–C4 species in genera with the most recent origins of C4 photosynthesis  all support the notion that C3–C4 species represent phenotypic states through which transitions to C4 photosynthesis could occur . The combined traits of C3–C4 intermediate species therefore represent samples from across the space of phenotypes connecting C3 to C4 photosynthesis  . Within our meta-analysis data , C3–C4 phenotypes were available for 33 eudicot and 4 monocot species . 16 and 17 of these species have extant congeneric relatives performing NADP-ME or NAD-ME sub-type C4 photosynthesis respectively . Our meta-analysis therefore encompassed a variety of taxonomic lineages , as well as representing close relatives of known phenotypic variants performing C4 photosynthesis . AsteraceaeFlaveria cronquistii  Flavera pringlei  Flaveria robusta  Flaveria angustifolia  Flaveria anomala  Ku et al . Flaveria chloraefolia  Holaday et al . Flaveria floridana  Adams et al . Flaveria linearis  Brown and Hattersley  Flaveria oppositifolia  Ku et al . Flaveria ramosissima  Rosche et al . Flaveria sonorensis  Casati et al . Flaveria brownie  McKown et al . Flaveria vaginata  McKown and Dengler  Flaveria pubescens  Gowik et al . Flaveria australasica  Flaveria bidentis  Flaveria kochiana  Flaveria trinervia  Parthenium incanum  Moore et al . In total , 16 characteristics relating to C4 photosynthesis were extracted from 43 studies encompassing 18 C3 , 18 C4 , and 37 C3–C4 intermediate species . Evolutionary paths to C4 phenotype space modelled from a meta-analysis of C3–C4 phenotypes . Each C4 trait was considered absent in C3 species and present in C4 species , with previously studied C3–C4 intermediate species representing samples from across the phenotype space  . With a dataset of 16 phenotypic traits , a 16-dimensional space was defined . The phenotypes of multiple C3–C4 species were used to identify pathways compatible with individual species  , and pathways compatible with the phenotypes of multiple species  . 005Figure 1—source data 1 . Binary scoring of C4 traits present in C3–C4 species . The EM algorithm was used to assign binary scores for the presence or absence of 16 C4 traits in 37 C3–C4 intermediate species . 1 denotes the presence of a trait , 0 denotes absence . Blank cells denote traits that have not been defined . Clustering quantitative traits by EM algorithm and hierarchical clustering . Quantitative variables were assigned binary scores using two-data clustering techniques . Illustration of the principle by which evolutionary pathways emit intermediate signals . In this illustration , the phenotype consists of three traits , yielding a simple  cubic transition network . Simulated trajectories on this network evolve according to the weights of network edges  . Probabilities were calculated from the signals emitted by simulated trajectories at intermediate nodes  . Ensembles of trajectories were simulated to obtain probabilities from these signals for every possible evolutionary transition  . 009 We defined each C4 trait as either being absent  or present  . For quantitative traits the expectation-maximization  algorithm and hierarchical clustering were used to impartially assign binary scores  . This generated a 16-bit string for each of the species  , with a presence or absence score for each of the traits included in our meta-analysis . Many existing methods of inference for evolutionary trajectories rely on phylogenetic information or assumptions about the fitness landscape underlying evolutionary dynamics  . We therefore consider the convergent evolution of C4 fundamentally as the acquisition of the key phenotypic traits identified through our meta-analysis  . The process of acquisition of these traits can be pictured as a path on the 16-dimensional hypercube  , from the node labelled with all 0’s  to the node labelled with all 1’s  . The phenotypic landscape underlying the evolution of C4 photosynthesis was then modelled as a transition network , with weighted edges describing the probability of transitions occurring between two phenotypic states  . Observed intermediate points were then used to constrain the structure of these phenotypic landscapes . Each of these chains represents a possible evolutionary pathway from C3 to C4 , and passes through several intermediate phenotypic states . A Bayesian MCMC procedure was used to sample from the set of networks most compatible with the meta-analysis dataset , and thus most likely to represent the underlying dynamics of C4 evolution . The order in which phenotypic characteristics were acquired was recorded for paths on each network compatible with the C3–C4 species data , and posterior probability distributions  for the time-ordered acquisition of each C4 trait were generated . To model the evolutionary paths generating C4 without requiring additional dimensionality , we imposed that only one C4 trait may be acquired at a time , and loss of acquired C4 traits was forbidden . To test if we were nevertheless able to detect traits acquired simultaneously in evolution , we tested our approach on artificial positive control datasets containing intermediate nodes representing a stepwise evolutionary sequence of events  and an evolutionary pathway in which four traits are acquired simultaneously at a time  . Our approach clearly assigned equal acquisition probabilities to traits whose timing was linked in the underlying dataset , even when 50% of the data was occluded  . These data are consistent with this approach detecting the simultaneous acquisition of traits in evolution , even though single-trait acquisitions are simulated . Verifying a novel Bayesian approach for predicting evolutionary trajectories . When applied to our meta-analysis of C3–C4 data , predictions were generated for every trait missing from the biological dataset . We tested this predictive machinery by generating 29 artificial datasets , each missing one data point , and comparing the presence/absence of the trait as predicted by our approach with the experimental data from the original study . Quantitative real-time PCR  was used to verify the predicted phenotypes of four C3–C4 species . The abundance RbcS  and MDH  transcripts were determined from six Flaveria species . A probability for the presence of unobserved phenotypic characters was generated for every characteristic not yet studied in each of the C3–C4 species included in this study . Red  predict a posterior mean probability of >0 . 75 for the presence of a C4 trait; blue  predict a posterior mean probability of <0 . Yellow blocks correspond to known data: no symbol is present for traits for which presence and absence have an equal probability  . 011 The presence and absence of unknown phenotypes were predicted by recording all phenotypes encountered along a set of simulated evolutionary trajectories that were compatible with the data from a given species  , and calculating the posterior distribution of the proportion of these phenotypes with the value 1 for the unknown trait . If the mean of this distribution was <25% or >75% , and that value fell outside one standard deviation of the mean , the missing trait was assigned a strong prediction of absence or presence . The predicted phenotype of each missing trait was then compared with the known phenotype published in the original study . For 29 occluded traits 18 were strongly predicted to be present or absent , and the remaining 11 predictions were neutral . Of the 18 strongly predicted traits  , 15 were correct , with only one false positive and two false negative predictions  . Predictions were generated for phenotypes that have not yet been described in C3–C4 species  . We also found that the model was able to successfully infer evolutionary dynamics in artificially constructed datasets  . The posterior probability distributions for the acquisition time of each phenotypic trait were combined to produce an objective , computationally generated blueprint for the order of evolutionary events generating C4 photosynthesis  . The mean ordering of phenotypic changes generating C4 photosynthesis . EM-clustered data from C3–C4 intermediate species were used to generate posterior probability distributions for the timing of the acquisition of C4 traits in sixteen evolutionary steps  or four quartiles  . Circle diameter denotes the mean posterior probability of a trait being acquired at each step in C4 evolution  . The 16 traits are ordered from left to right by their probability of being acquired early to late in C4 evolution . Results obtained using data clustered by hierarchical clustering . Traits were also assigned presence/absence scores by hierarchical clustering . Analysis of data partitioned by hierarchical clustering predicted a similar sequence of evolutionary events to that shown in Figure 3  . These results suggest our conclusions are not affected by the different methods of assigning binary scores to traits . Adding or removing traits does not affect the predicted order of evolutionary events . Two independent pairs of traits were randomly selected and deleted from the analysis . In both cases , removing two traits did not affect the predicted timing of the remaining 14 traits in the analysis  . Furthermore , including two additional traits associated with C4 photosynthesis also did not alter the predicted timing of other traits  . Together , these data suggest our results are robust to both the removal and addition of traits from the phenotype space . Probabilities of C4 traits being acquired simultaneously . The extent to which C4 traits are linked in evolution was assessed by modelling C4 evolution from a start phenotype with one trait already acquired . Linked traits would have a high probability of being acquired in the next event . Artificially acquired traits are listed on the x-axis and the probability of each additional C4 trait being subsequently acquired  is denoted in each pixel of the heat map . There is overall very low probability for multiple traits being linked in their acquisition in the evolution of C4 . The compartmentation of PEPC into M cells and its increased abundance compared with C3 leaves was predicted to occur at similar times , but for all other C4 enzymes the evolution of increased abundance and cellular compartmentation were clearly separated by the acquisition of other traits  . First , the analysis was repeated using scores for presence or absence of traits that were assigned by hierarchical clustering , as opposed to using the EM algorithm  . Although hierarchical clustering generated differences in the scoring of a small number of traits , the predicted evolutionary trajectories were not affected , producing highly similar results  . Second , we introduced structural changes to the phenotype space , by both adding and subtracting traits from the analysis  . Removing two independent pairs of traits from the analysis did not affect the predicted timing of the remaining 14 traits  . To test if the addition of data might also affect the results , we performed an analysis with two additional traits included  . We selected two traits that have been widely observed in C3–C4 species , the centripetal positioning of mitochondria and the centrifugal or centripetal position of chloroplasts within BS cells  . Despite the widespread occurrence of these traits , their functional importance remains unclear  . Consistent with observations made from several genera , we predict that these cellular alterations are acquired early in the evolution of C4 photosynthesis  . Importantly , including these additional early traits in the analysis did not alter the predicted order of the original 16 traits . In addition to the likely order of evolutionary events generating C4 photosynthesis , the number of molecular alterations required is also unknown . We therefore aimed to test if multiple traits were predicted to evolve with linked timing , and therefore likely mediated by a single underlying mechanism . To achieve this , we performed a contingency analysis by considering trajectories across phenotype space beginning with a given initial acquisition step . In this analysis , the starting genome had one of the 16 traits acquired and the rest absent , and the contingency of the subsequent trajectory upon the initial step was recorded . This approach was designed to test if acquiring one C4 trait increased the probability of subsequently acquiring other traits , thus detecting if the evolution of multiple traits is linked by underlying mechanisms . Inflexible linkage between multiple traits was detected in artificial positive control datasets  but not in the C3–C4 dataset  . This result suggests that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible . Multiple origins of C4 may therefore have been facilitated by this flexibility in the evolutionary pathways connecting C3 and C4 phenotypes . Our Bayesian analysis strongly indicates that there are multiple evolutionary pathways by which C4 traits are acquired by all lineages of C4 plants . First , no single sequence of acquisitions was capable of producing intermediate phenotypes compatible with all observations  . Second , several traits such as compartmentation of GDC into BS and the increased number of chloroplasts in the BS clearly displayed bimodal probability distributions for their acquisition  . This bimodality is indicative of multiple distinct pathways to C4 photosynthesis that acquire traits at earlier or later times . To investigate factors underlying this bimodality , we inferred evolutionary pathways generating the C4 leaf using data from monocot and eudicot lineages , or from lineages using NAD malic enzyme  or NADP malic enzyme  as their primary C4 acid decarboxylase . Analysis of the posterior probabilities of the mean pathways representing either monocots or dicots revealed that this separation is the result of differences in the timing of events generating both anatomical and biochemical traits  . We propose that the ancient divergence of the monocot and eudicot clades constrained the evolution of C4 photosynthesis to broadly different evolutionary pathways in each . Differences in the evolutionary events generating different C4 sub-types and distantly related taxa . Principal component analysis  on the entire landscape of transition probabilities using only monocot and eudicot data  and data from NADP-ME and NAD-ME sub-type lineages  shows broad differences between the evolutionary pathways generating C4 in each taxon . Monocots and eudicots differ in the predicted timing of events generating C4 anatomy and biochemistry  , whereas NADP-ME and NAD-ME lineages differ primarily in the evolution of decreased vein spacing and greater numbers of chloroplasts in BS cells  . PCA was performed on sampled transition networks from the sets compatible with the overall dataset and each of the two subsets corresponding to different lineages: overall/monocot/eudicot  overall/NAD-ME/NADP-ME  . 017 There was more overlap between the landscapes generating NAD–ME and NADP-ME species  , likely reflecting the convergent origins of NAD–ME and NADP-ME sub-types  . For example , in NAD–ME lineages , increased vein density was predicted to be acquired early in C4 evolution , while in NADP-ME species this trait showed a broadly different trajectory  . The proliferation of chloroplasts in the BS was also acquired with different timings between the two sub-types . The alternative evolutionary pathways generating the NADP-ME and NAD–ME subtypes were therefore defined by differences in the timing of anatomical and cellular traits that are predicted to precede the majority of biochemical alterations  . We therefore conclude that these distinct sub-types evolved as a consequence of alternative evolutionary histories in response to non-photosynthetic pressures . Furthermore , we propose that early evolutionary events determined the downstream phenotypes of C4 sub-types by restricting lineages to independent pathways across phenotype space . The adaptive landscape metaphor has provided a powerful conceptual framework within which evolutionary transitions can be modelled  . However , the majority of complex biological traits provide numerous challenges in utilising such an approach , including missing phenotypic data , incomplete phylogenetic information and in the case of convergent evolution , variable ancestral states . Here we report the development of a novel , predictive Bayesian approach that is able to infer likely evolutionary trajectories connecting phenotypes from sparsely sampled , highly stochastic data . With this model , we provided insights into the evolution of one of the most complex traits to have arisen in multiple lineages: C4 photosynthesis . However , as our approach is not dependent on detailed phylogenetic inference , we propose that it could be used to model the evolution of other complex traits , such as those in the fossil record , which are also currently limited by the fragmented nature of data available  . Our approach is also not limited by the time-scale over which predicted trajectories occur . According to this hypothesis , alterations to the localisation and abundance of the primary carboxylases PEPC and RuBisCO would be expected to occur early in the evolutionary trajectories generating C4 . Our model predicts that BS-specificity of GDC was acquired early in C4 evolution for the majority of lineages . However , we also note that the predicted timing of GDC BS-specificity is bimodal in our analysis  , and not predicted to be acquired early in monocot lineages  . These results suggest that this is not a feature of C4 evolution to have occurred repeatedly in all lineages . Our data also suggest that modifications to leaf development drove the evolution of diverse C4 sub-types . For example , we find that differences in the timing of events altering leaf vascular development and BS chloroplast division occur prior to the appearance of the alternative evolutionary pathways generating the NADP-ME and NAD-ME biochemical sub-types  . These traits are predicted to evolve prior to any alterations to the C4 acid decarboxylase enzymes that traditionally define these sub-types  . We therefore conclude that these different sub-types evolved as a consequence of alternative evolutionary histories in leaf development , rather than biochemical or photosynthetic pressures . Instead , we propose that early evolutionary events determined the downstream phenotypes of C4 sub-types by restricting lineages to independent pathways across phenotype space . C4 photosynthesis provides an excellent example of how independent lineages with a wide range of ancestral phenotypes can converge upon similar complex traits . Several studies on more simple traits have demonstrated that convergence upon a phenotype can be specified by diverse genotypes , and thus non-homologous molecular mechanisms in independent lineages  . Taken together , our data also indicate that flexibility in the viable series of evolutionary events has also facilitated the convergence of this highly complex trait . First , we show that at least four distinct evolutionary trajectories underlie the evolution of C4 lineages  . Second , we find no evidence for inflexible linkage between the predicted timing of distinct C4 traits  . A recent model for the evolution of the biochemistry associated with the C4 leaf also found that C4 photosynthesis was accessible from any surrounding point of a fitness landscape  . Our study of C4 anatomy , biochemistry , and cell biology also suggests the C4 phenotype is accessible from multiple trajectories . Encouragingly , the trajectories predicted by Heckman et al . were found to pass through phenotypes of C3–C4 species , despite the fact that these species were not used to parameterise the evolutionary landscape . As different mechanisms generate increased abundance and cell-specificity for the majority C4 enzymes in independent C4 lineages  , it is likely that mechanistic diversity underlies the multiple evolutionary pathways generating C4 photosynthesis and may be a key factor in facilitating the convergent evolution of complex traits . This may benefit efforts to recapitulate the acquisition of C4 photosynthesis through the genetic engineering of C3 species  , expanding the molecular toolbox available to establish C4 traits in distinct phenotypic backgrounds . We represent the phenotypic properties of each intermediate species as a string of L = 16 numbers  . We will refer to these strings as phenotype strings of L loci , with each locus describing data on the corresponding phenotypic trait . In a given locus , 0 denotes the absence of a C4 trait , 1 denotes the presence of a C4 trait , and 2 denotes missing data . The fundamental element underlying our analysis is a transition network P , consisting of a directed graph with 2L = 65 , 536 nodes , and the weight of the edge Pij denoting the probability of a transition occurring from node i to node j . Each node corresponds to a possible phenotype: we labeled nodes with labels li so that li was the binary representation of the phenotype at node i , and Pij takes on the specific meaning of the probability of a transition from phenotype li to phenotype lj . We assume that the possibility of events involving backwards steps , and multiple simultaneous trait acquisitions constitute second-order effects which will not strongly influence the inferred evolutionary dynamics . Given the transition network P , we modelled the evolutionary trajectories that may give rise to C4 photosynthesis through the picture of a discrete analogue to a Brownian bridge , that is as a stochastic process on P with constrained start and end positions  . The dynamics of the process between these points consisted of L steps , with a phenotypic trait being acquired at each step , and a step from node i to node j occurring with probability Pij . As many evolutionary trajectories may lead to the acquisition of the required phenotypic traits , we considered an ensemble of evolutionary trajectories for each transition network . To compare the dynamics of a given transition network to the properties of observed biological intermediates , we pictured this ensemble of trajectories as a modification of a hidden Markov model  . Over an ensemble of trajectories , a set of randomly emitted signals is thus built up  . The term within the product operator thus describes the probability that evolutionary dynamics on network P give rise to a signal that is compatible with species Bi , with the overall likelihood being the product of this probability over all observed species . For each network P we simulate an ensemble of Nchain trajectories and , for each node encountered throughout this ensemble , we record compatibilities with each of the biologically observed intermediates . A network that does not encounter any node compatible with a particular intermediate will thus be assigned zero likelihood; networks that encounter compatible nodes many times will be assigned high likelihoods . For each transition network , we simulated Nchain = 2 × 104 individual trajectories running from C3 to C4 . Given uninformative prior knowledge about the evolutionary dynamics leading to C4 photosynthesis  , we aimed to build a posterior distribution over a suitable description of the evolutionary dynamics . We represented the dynamics supported on a network P through a matrix π , where πi , n describes the probability that acquisition of trait i occurs at the nth step in an evolutionary trajectory . We used Bayesian MCMC to sample networks based on their associated likelihood values  . The probability of proposing move A→A' is thus N  , and the probability of proposing A→A' is N  . The value σ = 0 . We report the posterior distributions ℙ  inferred from sampling compatible networks as above . To verify our approach , we constructed artificial data sets , consisting of sets of strings in which phenotypic traits were acquired in a single ordering . Specifically , πi , n = δi , n , so the first step always resulted in acquiring the first trait , and so on . To test the approach in a pleiotropic setting , where multiple traits were acquired simultaneously , we also constructed data sets where traits were acquired at only four timesteps , each corresponding to the simultaneous acquisition of four traits . The approach accurately determines the ordering of events in both the bare and occluded cases and assigns very similar posterior probability distributions to the ordering of those traits acquired simultaneously . When a simulated chain encountered a phenotypic node compatible with a given biological intermediate , the values of traits corresponding to missing data in the biological data were recorded . These recorded values , sampled over the sampled set of networks , allowed us to place probabilities on the values of biologically unobserved traits inferred from the encounters of compatible dynamics with the corresponding phenotypic possibilities . For example , if 70% of paths on network P pass through point 101 and 30% pass through point 001 , we infer a 70% probability that the missing trait in biological intermediate 201 takes the value 1 . Predictions were presented if the inferred probability of a ‘1’ value was >75%  or <25%  . We used a dynamic programming approach to explore whether a deterministic sequence of events , with a trait Tn always being acquired at timestep n  , was compatible with the biological data . Performing an exhaustive search over sequences of single transitions that were compatible with the observed data , we identified several such sequences that accounted for all but one trait acquisition , but no single sequence exists that accounts for all the data . To explore the possibility of multiple traits being acquired simultaneously , we tracked acquisition probabilities for later traits given that a certain trait was acquired first . If a pair of traits i and j were acquired simultaneously , we would expect γij and γji to both be higher than expected in the non-contingent case  . 
However , ATP hydrolysis is typically used for energy-intensive reactions , whereas GTP hydrolysis typically functions as a switch . SpoIVA is a bacterial cytoskeletal protein that hydrolyzes ATP to polymerize irreversibly during Bacillus subtilis sporulation . SpoIVA evolved from a TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases , but the evolutionary pressure that drove this change in nucleotide specificity is unclear . We therefore reengineered the nucleotide-binding pocket of SpoIVA to mimic its ancestral GTPase activity . Further , incubation of SpoIVAGTPase with limiting ATP did not promote efficient polymerization . We also present data suggesting that increased levels of ATP relative to GTP at the end of sporulation was the evolutionary pressure that drove the change in nucleotide preference in SpoIVA . In this report , we examine an unusual bacterial ATPase named SpoIVA  that is also from the TRAFAC class of GTPases and is exclusively found in sporulating members of the Firmicutes phylum  . Given the universal conservation of Era among bacteria and the narrow conservation of SpoIVA , we proposed a model in which SpoIVA emerged via a duplication event followed by rapid divergence from Era  . This divergence from Era included not only multiple residue substitutions , but also the addition of two C-terminal domains in SpoIVA that are not present in Era  . Further , the most parsimonious explanation of the phyletic patterns of SpoIVA and Era is that they are not formally sister groups where both diverged from a common ancestor; rather , SpoIVA ATPase , which emerged specifically in sporulating Firmicutes , has the Era GTPase itself as its ancestor . Unlike myosin and kinesin , SpoIVA is not a motor protein . Instead SpoIVA is a cytoskeletal protein that assembles into a static polymer in an ATP hydrolysis-dependent manner  . In the absence of an obvious motor function , which would necessitate high ATP utilization , the selective pressure that drove the evolution of nucleotide preference in SpoIVA has been unclear . SpoIVA is essential for bacterial endospore formation  . Assembly of the coat begins with the construction of a basement layer , of which the major structural protein is SpoIVA  . Unlike dynamic cytoskeletal proteins like actin and tubulin , where nucleotide binding drives polymerization and nucleotide hydrolysis is linked to polymer disassembly  , SpoIVA polymerization requires ATP hydrolysis to form a nucleotide-free static polymer  . The amino terminal half of the SpoIVA ATPase is the nucleotide-binding domain , which belongs to the TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases  . This domain harbors a Walker A motif that binds the γ-phosphoryl group of the bound ATP  , a Walker B motif that coordinates a Mg2+ ion required for ATP hydrolysis and , like TRAFAC GTPases , a sensor Thr  that detects the γ-phosphoryl of the bound nucleotide to trigger ATP hydrolysis  . To understand the functional requirement for the evolution of SpoIVA from a GTPase to an ATPase , we sought to reformulate the active site of SpoIVA to mimic its ancestral GTPase activity by restoring the NKxD motif , which is altered in SpoIVA , and by altering an SxE sequence in the loop associated with the G5 motif . We found that partial restoration of the NKxD motif and alteration of the SxE sequence resulted in a SpoIVA variant that hydrolyzed GTP in vitro slightly preferentially over ATP with reduced overall catalytic efficiency , similar to the in vitro activity of the Era GTPase from which SpoIVA was likely derived in the ancestral sporulating Firmicute  . In parallel , disrupting the NKxD motif in Era and introducing the SxE sequence into the G5 motif to mimic SpoIVA resulted in an Era variant that preferentially hydrolyzed ATP in vitro . The altered SpoIVA was able to harness the energy released by GTP or ATP hydrolysis to drive a necessary conformational change in the protein but failed to ultimately polymerize specifically in the presence of GTP . We show that this was due to the inability of SpoIVA to form the equivalent of an ADP-dependent multimer in the presence of GTP , which we show is a necessary intermediate en route to functional SpoIVA polymerization . Additionally , we provide evidence that the extant SpoIVA polymerizes more efficiently than the altered variant in the presence of lower ATP concentration , similar to what is present during the end of sporulation . We propose that a pronounced reduction in intracellular GTP concentration relative to ATP during the late stages of sporulation could have driven the evolution of SpoIVA to utilize ATP instead of GTP to drive polymerization , a critical step in the morphogenesis of the spore cell surface . Our earlier sequence-profile analysis along with site directed mutagenesis had shown SpoIVA to be a member of the TRAFAC class of GTPases with Era as its closest GTPase relative  . Since SpoIVA is strictly restricted to the clade of Firmicutes that form endospores we reasoned that SpoIVA was a relatively late innovation that evolved via gene duplication and rapid divergence from Era . Given that Era is a functional GTPase and SpoIVA shows a clear preference for ATP over GTP  we sought to identify the potential changes in the active site that might have led to this shift in specificity . However , the phyletic patterns strongly indicate that the ultimate ancestor of SpoIVA was Era itself . Moreover , SpoIVA and Era have diverged too far from each other to successfully employ such an approach . We therefore focused on the highly conserved N-terminal TRAFAC NTPase domain of SpoIVA and computed a sequence logo for SpoIVA , Era and various other families of the TRAFAC class of GTPases , especially those of the GIMAP-Septin-Dynamin clade which show a comparable tendency for forming oligomers or polymers  . Next , the amino acid conservation pattern of SpoIVA was superimposed on a topology diagram of the ancestral core TRAFAC GTPase domain  . This allowed us to identify those conserved active site positions which were retained in the ancestral state in SpoIVA and those that were altered with respect to bona fide GTPases  . In SpoIVA , these three motifs are retained in the ancestral state indicating that SpoIVA binds and senses the triphosphate moiety of the NTP similar to the ancestral GTPases  . In contrast , notable changes are seen in the G4 and G5 motifs of SpoIVA . Among the GTPases closely related to SpoIVA , the G4 motif is of the form NKxD  , for example , in Era and Eng  . Thus , SpoIVA retains the ancestral state in this position . Strikingly , this K is consistently substituted by an alcoholic  residue in the SpoIVA family . In SpoIVA it is again mostly substituted by either of several polar residues , such as K , H , N , or R . Notably , unlike in bona fide GTPases this position is poorly constrained in SpoIVA , suggesting a relaxation of selection , which might have allowed the emergence of ATP selectivity . In the case of SpoIVA the position corresponding to the conserved S in the G5 motif is less constrained and is usually either N , D , or S . The next residue is usually a cysteine in SpoIVA . This position is not particularly conserved in TRAFAC GTPases as a whole but in SpoIVA is either acidic  or Q/N in 41% of the orthologs . Together , these observations suggested that the changes in the G4  and G5  regions relative to the bona fide GTPases may have contributed to the emergence of ATP-specificity in SpoIVA  . To determine the relative contributions of the altered NKxD and SxE motifs in G4 and G5 , respectively , on nucleotide hydrolysis specificity of SpoIVA , we first substituted different residues in each motif , either individually or in several combinations . coli and tested the efficiency of each variant in hydrolyzing ATP and GTP in vitro . Wild-type  SpoIVA displayed a catalytic efficiency of 4 . 9 min−1 mM−1 for ATP , compared to just 1 . 8 min−1 mM−1 for GTP , indicating that the protein hydrolyzed ATP approximately threefold more efficiently than GTP  . coli Era  . Restoring the Asp in the degenerate NKxD motif of SpoIVA did not significantly change the catalytic efficiencies of ATP or GTP hydrolysis but restoring either the Lys or full NKxD motif in SpoIVA resulted in a ~2 . 5-fold increase in the catalytic efficiency for ATP and ~3 . 5-fold of that for GTP hydrolysis . Curiously , these variants also displayed an unusually high turnover rate that was ~10-fold higher for both NTPs than that displayed by WT SpoIVA  . We next investigated if altering the SxE sequence in SpoIVA would reduce the unusually high enzymatic activity resulting from restoration of the NKxD motif . Substituting both the Ser and Glu with Ala  in the context of the restored NKxD motif resulted in lowered catalytic efficiencies , similar to WT SpoIVA  . This change also increased the catalytic efficiency of the enzyme for GTP , resulting in drastically reduced specificity for ATP relative to WT SpoIVA  . The key alterations in shifting the NTPase activity of SpoIVA toward that of Era were to restore the Asp of the NKxD and replace the Glu of the SxE  . Conversely , disrupting the NKxD motif of Era and introducing a Glu to create an SxE motif were sufficient to drive the preferential hydrolysis of ATP over GTP . subtilis SpoIVA contributes to altering the nucleotide-binding pocket to discriminate against GTP in favor of ATP . The Glu in the SxE sequence further contributes to ATP hydrolysis specificity and likely stabilizes the binding of ATP over GTP . To ensure that the amino acid substitutions introduced to restore ancestral SpoIVA GTPase activity did not completely abrogate protein function , we tested the ability of the different variants to complement the sporulation defect caused by a deletion of the spoIVA gene in B . Deletion of spoIVA resulted in a >108-fold and a ~106-fold reduction in the production of heat resistant spores and lysozyme-resistant spores , respectively  , which could be complemented in trans by the introduction of WT spoIVA at an ectopic chromosomal locus . Immunoblot analysis of extracts prepared from sporulating cells revealed that these SpoIVA variants were produced at levels similar to WT SpoIVA  . Interestingly , SpoIVAGTPase  , which showed reduced but similar hydrolysis of ATP and GTP  , supported sporulation at near WT levels  . WT GFP-SpoIVA localized to the surface of the forespore  , as did the NSxD variant which sporulated at near-WT levels  . Thus , disruption of the nucleotide-binding pocket of SpoIVA to permit the slightly preferential hydrolysis of GTP over ATP resulted in a protein that largely retained proper function in vivo . We therefore monitored the nucleotide hydrolysis-driven conformational change and polymerization of SpoIVA in vitro in the presence of either nucleotide . Structural changes in SpoIVA may be monitored by limited trypsin proteolysis  . Importantly , the experiment was performed using 2 µM SpoIVA , which is below the critical concentration for SpoIVA polymerization  , and therefore reflective of polymerization-independent conformational changes in the protein . In the absence of nucleotide , SpoIVA was rapidly degraded , resulting in a characteristic banding pattern  . The disappearance of full-length SpoIVA was quantified to produce a decay rate which indicated that a conformational change in WT SpoIVA could be achieved at an approximately similar rate by hydrolysis of either by ATP or GTP  . However , variants harboring substitution of either the Ser or Glu singly or together in the SxE sequence with Ala or SpoIVAGTPase displayed a decay rate in the presence of either nucleotide that was more similar to WT SpoIVA , suggesting that that these variants were able to utilize the energy released from hydrolysis of either ATP or GTP to drive the conformational change in the protein that is a prerequisite for polymerization  . To further understand the nucleotide hydrolysis requirement for driving the conformational change in SpoIVA , we employed the limited trypsin digestion assay with SpoIVA and key SpoIVA variants using different nucleotides: ATP-γ-S and GTP-γ-S , which are non-hydrolyzable analogs of ATP and GTP; ADP and GDP; and ADP-AlFx and GDP-AlFx , which are nucleotide analogs that mimic the transition state of ATP and GTP in the hydrolysis reaction  . In the presence of ATP-γ-S or GTP-γ-S , WT SpoIVA displayed an intermediate conformational change suggesting that the protein bound , but did not hydrolyze , the nucleotide  , whereas SpoIVA harboring a Walker A disruption  did not undergo a similar conformational change  . Consistent with this result , the SpoIVA variant harboring a Sensor T disruption  displayed a similar conformational change as WT SpoIVA in the presence of ATP-γ-S and GTP-γ-S  , and SpoIVAT* binding to ATP . Interestingly , the NKxD variant of SpoIVA , which exhibited elevated ATP and GTP hydrolysis levels  , displayed a conformational change in the presence of ATP-γ-S and GTP-γ-S similar to SpoIVAA*  , suggesting that it did not stably undergo the initial conformational change that occurs upon binding the nucleotide . WT SpoIVA and SpoIVAT* exhibited a similar intermediate conformational change when incubated with ADP or GDP , but not the full conformational change that occurred upon nucleotide hydrolysis  . Curiously , incubation of WT SpoIVA with either ADP-AlFx or GDP-AlFx  produced a conformational change that was similar to that produced upon full hydrolysis of the nucleotide  . Taken together , the results suggest that simply binding to ADP or GDP is insufficient to produce the full conformational change in SpoIVA required for polymerization . Instead , hydrolysis of an NTP molecule , while bound to the active site , is required for rearranging SpoIVA into a polymerization-competent state . Next , we tested the nucleotide-dependent polymerization rates of the SpoIVA variants by measuring the size distribution of polymerized SpoIVA molecules over time using dynamic light scattering  . Incubation of purified WT SpoIVA , above the critical concentration for polymerization , with ATP , but not GTP , resulted in a steady increase in hydrodynamic radius  over a 5 hr period , consistent with ATP-dependent polymerization and what we previously observed  . The initial slope of the polymerization reaction in the presence of nucleotide was quantified and reported relative to the initial slope of the reaction in the absence of nucleotide to yield polymerization rates for SpoIVA  . This ratio revealed a greater than ~30% increase in polymerization rate with ATP than GTP  , surprisingly indicating that the conformational change in SpoIVA driven by GTP hydrolysis  , which appeared similar to the conformational change driven by ATP hydrolysis , did not yield isomers of SpoIVA that were capable of polymerization . We next examined the ability of SpoIVA variants in polymerizing with ATP and GTP . However , all variants that harbored a restoration of the Lys in the G4 motif were unable to polymerize with either nucleotide  , suggesting that substitutions leading to elevated nucleotide hydrolysis were unable to  induce a conformational change ,  were defective in vivo , and  were also unable to promote SpoIVA polymerization . Disruptions to the SxE sequence lowered , but did not abolish , SpoIVA polymerization in the presence of ATP , but none of these variants polymerized in the presence of GTP  . Likewise , SpoIVAGTPase , which was functional in vivo  , and could use either ATP or GTP to induce a similar conformational change after nucleotide hydrolysis  , only polymerized in the presence of ATP  , suggesting a specific requirement for the nucleotide base , not simply the energy released from nucleotide hydrolysis , for its function . Fully polymerized SpoIVA is devoid of any bound nucleotide  , but we wondered if SpoIVA would form an intermediate multimeric complex en route to polymerization whose formation would be dependent specifically on ADP binding before the hydrolyzed nucleotide was released . To test this , we first incubated 2 µM purified SpoIVA , below the threshold concentration for polymerization  , either in the absence of nucleotide or in the presence of ATP or GTP , and then separated the products by size exclusion chromatography  . In the absence of nucleotide or the presence of GTP , SpoIVA migrated as a single peak  . Diluting the peak into a low salt buffer revealed an additional peak at 59 ± 8 kDa , similar to the predicted mass for a SpoIVA monomer of 57 kDa , along with the presumed dimeric peak of 109 ± 14 kDa corresponding to a SpoIVA dimer  . Addition of ATP resulted in shifting most of the protein to the void volume of the SEC column , indicating the formation of a larger complex  , even though the experiment was performed using a SpoIVA concentration that was below its critical concentration for polymerization  . In contrast , neither SpoIVAT* in the presence ATP or GTP , nor WT SpoIVA in the presence of either ATP-γ-S or ADP , formed a larger complex , indicating that ATP , but not GTP , hydrolysis is required for producing the species in the void volume  . To check if this larger SpoIVA species may harbor an associated nucleotide , we examined the same peaks that eluted from the SEC column using 254 nm wavelength . Incubating WT SpoIVA or SpoIVAGTPase with GTP did not reveal a significant absorbance at 254 nm for fractions containing protein  , but the protein peaks of the sample in the void volume when incubated with ATP displayed significant absorbance at 254 nm  , suggesting the presence of nucleotide in this fraction . Neither SpoIVAT* incubated with ATP nor WT SpoIVA incubated with ATP-γ-S or ADP displayed significant absorbance at 254 nm  , suggesting that the nucleotide present in the void volume multimer of WT SpoIVA is likely ADP retained in the active site after hydrolysis . We next tested if the SpoIVA-ADP complex in the void volume observed in Figure 5B is a functional intermediate that can subsequently polymerize once its concentration exceeds the threshold concentration for polymerization . We therefore first incubated purified SpoIVA at low concentration  in the presence and absence of ATP . The desalted protein was then concentrated 20-fold using pressure dialysis after which polymerization was assayed by the formation of insoluble SpoIVA in the pellet fraction after ultracentrifugation  . Only samples that were incubated with ATP and whose concentration was increased displayed appreciable SpoIVA in the pellet fraction  . Importantly , removing free ATP prior to concentrating the sample also resulted in SpoIVA polymerization , suggesting that pre-incubation with ATP produces a functional ADP-bound SpoIVA multimeric intermediate that can polymerize once its threshold concentration for polymerization is subsequently achieved . Interestingly , while the protein-containing pellet fraction did not contain any bound nucleotide  , the supernatant fraction contained ATP and ADP  , likely from ATP-bound SpoIVA that had not polymerized and consistent with the release of ADP upon SpoIVA polymerization . Taken together , the results are consistent with a model in which SpoIVA , at a low concentration that does not promote polymerization , hydrolyzes ATP to undergo a conformational change and subsequently assembles into heterogeneous high molecular weight multimers that retain the ADP product of hydrolysis . Upon an increase in concentration , this functional SpoIVA multimeric intermediate releases the bound ADP and forms a nucleotide-free mature polymer . In contrast , while hydrolysis of GTP drove a conformational change in SpoIVA similar to what was achieved with ATP hydrolysis  , GTP hydrolysis did not permit formation of the high molecular weight intermediate  , nor did the protein retain GDP after hydrolysis  . This relative abundance of ATP could therefore explain the evolutionary pressure that drove the switch in nucleotide-binding preference from GTP to ATP in SpoIVA . However , the time point at which these measurements were performed is before SpoIVA exerts its function during sporulation . 5 hr , when SpoIVA is actively assembling the spore coat basement layer  , ATP levels were ~70% of pre-sporulation levels; by t = 5 hr , ATP levels were less than 35% of pre-sporulation levels . 38 fL and using calculated LC-MS detection efficiencies for ATP and GTP  , this corresponds to a pre-induction intracellular concentration of ATP of 2 . This corresponded to an approximately eightfold excess of ATP over GTP at t = 3 . Since SpoIVAGTPase functioned similar to the extant  SpoIVA in vivo with respect to sporulation efficiency and localization  , we wondered if the extant SpoIVA evolved to more efficiently utilize ATP at physiological nucleotide concentrations , in a way that was not evident by measuring sporulation efficiency by heat and lysozyme resistance  . Both SpoIVA and SpoIVAGTPase failed to undergo nucleotide hydrolysis-mediated structural changes in the presence of 0 . 06 mM GTP at sub-polymerization levels of the protein but did so in the presence of 1 . 5 mM ATP  . However , when we examined SpoIVA polymerization at different concentrations of ATP , we observed that while neither SpoIVA nor SpoIVAGTPase were able to polymerize in the presence of 0 . 06 mM ATP  , WT SpoIVA , but not SpoIVAGTPase , was able to efficiently polymerize in the presence of an intermediate concentration of ATP  , similar to what was observed for WT SpoIVA using 4 mM ATP . Thus , although SpoIVAGTPase promiscuously hydrolyzed ATP and GTP  and could polymerize with excessive ATP  , it was unable to polymerize under limiting concentration of ATP  . The limiting amounts of ATP  therefore suggests a selective pressure that could have driven the initial amino acid substitutions required to switch nucleotide preference from GTP to ATP in SpoIVA and subsequent substitutions to enhance polymerization activity . In this study we examined an unusual bacterial cytoskeletal protein , SpoIVA , that hydrolyzes ATP to drive the formation of static polymers . We previously reported that the SpoIVA ATPase is ancestrally derived  from an Era-like GTPase , a pan-bacterial ribosomal maturation protein belonging to the TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases  . First , we partially restored the highly conserved NKxD motif on the G4 loop that has been implicated in conferring GTP-binding specificity  and is highly conserved among GTPases  , but is altered in SpoIVA . Additionally , the altered protein was able to exploit the energy released by hydrolysis of either ATP or GTP to drive a critical conformational change required for polymerization  . This requirement for ATP led us to propose that the scarcity of GTP during the late stages of sporulation  could have helped drive the evolution of SpoIVA to preferentially utilize ATP . 5–5 h after the initiation of sporulation , when SpoIVA is actively assembling the spore coat  , which suggests a selective pressure that drove the switch in nucleotide specificity in SpoIVA from GTP to ATP . Consistent with this notion , we observed that physiological levels of intracellular ATP , but not GTP , facilitate the requisite conformational changes in SpoIVA and SpoIVAGTPase  . Thus , the apparent requirement for low GTP levels during sporulation likely drove SpoIVA to utilize the more abundant ATP , rather than force the cell to generate more GTP . One puzzling observation was that SpoIVAGTPase , which promiscuously hydrolyzed ATP and GTP , functioned similar to the extant SpoIVA in vivo  , which led us to wonder why the protein needed to have evolved further . However , when we employed a more sensitive assay which monitored the kinetics of SpoIVA polymerization in vitro , we found that , at an intermediate concentration of ATP that resembles the in vivo intracellular concentration of ATP during the late stages of sporulation  , the extant SpoIVA polymerized more robustly than did SpoIVAGTPase . Thus , after GTP levels have dropped at the end of the sporulation program , and when ATP also gradually depletes , the extant SpoIVA has apparently evolved to better utilize ATP to drive efficient polymerization . We can speculate that the evolution from hydrolyzing GTP to ATP likely started with changing the Lys in the NKxD motif of Era to Ser in the ancestral SpoIVA , since any combination of SpoIVA mutants tested in this study that retain the Lys was not functional in vivo  or in vitro  , likely due to elevated nucleotide hydrolysis  . The next likely change was the loss of the Asp in the G4 NKxD motif , which was shown previously to confer GTP specificity to other TRAFAC GTPases  , and which resulted in a slight increase in catalytic efficiency and preference for ATP  , yet did not abrogate SpoIVA function in vivo and in vitro  . Consistent with this model we find this mutational route to yield the most direct stepwise progression of catalytic efficiency of NTP hydrolysis from Era to extant SpoIVA  . Our studies also revealed a stable polymerization intermediate that could explain the specific functional dependence of SpoIVA on ATP . At a low concentration of SpoIVA , which did not permit polymerization , we observed that SpoIVA formed a heterogeneous population of high molecular weight multimers in the presence of ATP , and not GTP  . Further experiments revealed that formation of these multimers required ATP hydrolysis and that , in the absence of polymerization , the multimers bound the hydrolyzed nucleotide   and were capable of polymerizing after subsequent removal of free ATP  . Our working model for SpoIVA polymerization  proposes that ATP hydrolysis results in the formation of high molecular weight SpoIVA multimers that stably bind ADP  . SpoIVA represents a further independent example of the emergence of such polymerization activity within the TRAFAC class . In particular , the ADP-dependent multimerization of SpoIVA is reminiscent of the manner in which septins multimerize when bound to GDP  . Since the final SpoIVA polymer is nucleotide-free  , the model predicts that polymerization of SpoIVA multimers , which only occurs when the concentration of SpoIVA exceeds a threshold concentration , releases the bound ADP  . In contrast , although the extant SpoIVA can hydrolyze GTP  , the residues required to retain the hydrolyzed nucleotide are presumably no longer present , resulting in GDP release , which precludes formation of the NDP-bound multimeric intermediate required for polymerization  . Since SpoIVA ultimately forms a static polymer and does not perform obvious work like a motor protein , the purpose of its ATP utilization had been mysterious . One implication of our model is that SpoIVA retained the ancestral ‘switch’ function of TRAFAC GTPases  . However , as it became fixed for this function in the context of sporulation , SpoIVA appears to have substituted ATP for GTP as the molecule that mediates the switch because of the relative scarcity of GTP during the late stages of sporulation  . In the future , detailed structural analyses of SpoIVA will likely yield insights into additional residues that evolved to increase the specificity of ATP binding and provide an atomic-scale mechanism for ATP-dependent multimerization and polymerization . His6-tagged SpoIVA was overproduced in E . To assess the multimerization of SpoIVA and variants , 2 µM purified WT or T* SpoIVA variant  was incubated with no NTP , 4 mM ATP , or 4 mM GTP in Buffer B  for 4 hr at 37°C . Different concentrations  of ATP or GTP  were incubated with 0 . 3 μM purified His6-SpoIVA or SpoIVA variants , or His6-Era or Era variants in 50 μl Buffer B for 1 hr at 37°C . Absorbances from control reactions performed in the absence of SpoIVA for each NTP concentration were subtracted from absorbances of the respective reactions with SpoIVA to eliminate background hydrolysis . Limited proteolysis of His6-SpoIVA and variants by partial trypsin digest was conducted as previously described  . Briefly , 2 μM His6-SpoIVA was incubated in 100 μl of Buffer B supplemented with 4 mM NTP for 4 hr at 37°C . The intensity of the full-length His6-SpoIVA band in each lane was quantified using ImageJ software  , plotted as a function of time , and fitted to single-phase exponential decay using GraphPad Prism 7; reaction rates from each His6-SpoIVA variant were normalized to the reaction rate of WT protein . Steady state levels of SpoIVA and variants were assessed via immunoblotting as previously described  . For sample analysis , 100 µl of SpoIVA at 0 . 
To uncover the importance of leptin in early life , the present study restored leptin signaling either at the fourth or tenth week of age in mice formerly null for the leptin receptor  gene . In addition to the role of leptin in energy homeostasis , other studies have shown that leptin can affect developmental processes , especially in the brain  . In addition , 2-week-old mice do not respond to the anorexigenic effects of leptin  . Thus , leptin does not seem to be involved in the regulation of energy balance during the first weeks of life in mice . However , synaptic plasticity in the hypothalamus is regulated by leptin  . In accordance , leptin promotes neurite outgrowth in vitro and leptin-deficient  mice show disruption of ARH neural projections  . Importantly , exogenous leptin rescues the development of ARH projections of Lepob/ob mice only when provided in the neonatal period . Thus , these findings suggest that the lack of leptin signaling in the first weeks of life permanently disrupts these projections in mice  . Important implications arise from the developmental effects of leptin . Thus , leptin may also be involved in the developmental programming  . Accordingly , early postnatal leptin blockage in rats leads to long-term leptin resistance and susceptibility to diet-induced obesity  . However , it is worth mentioning that despite the aforementioned evidence about leptin’s developmental effects , exogenous leptin replacement can reverse key metabolic abnormalities exhibited by leptin-deficient mice or humans  . Therefore , the actual importance of leptin signaling during development for the long-term energy homeostasis and other aspects regulated by leptin is not yet fully understood . Thus , to uncover the role of leptin during development , we investigated the long-term consequences of the absence of leptin signaling in early life . For this purpose , we studied knockout mice for the Lepr gene that grew without leptin’s effects . To study the importance of leptin signaling during development , we used the LepRNull mouse model that carries a transcription blocker between exons 16 and 17 of the Lepr gene  , preventing the expression of the long LepR isoform  . As expected , adult male and female LepRNull mice were morbidly obese and hyperphagic  . Since the transcription blocker of LepRNull mice is flanked by LoxP sites , a temporal Cre expression can permanently remove this cassette . LepRNull mice were bred with animals expressing Cre-ERT2 fusion protein under the human ubiquitin C promoter sequence . Thus , tamoxifen injections were able to induce Cre recombinase activity ubiquitously , restoring LepR expression in Ubi-LepRNull mice . We decided to induce LepR reactivation when mice were 10 weeks old because the vast majority of developmental processes were completed at this age . We observed that tamoxifen injections caused no long-term changes in body weight or food intake in lean controls  and LepRNull mice  . In contrast , Ubi-LepRNull mice exhibited a sustained weight loss and marked food intake reduction in the first 4 weeks after tamoxifen treatment  . To confirm the gene reactivation , we assessed the hypothalamic expression of Lepr-b mRNA and observed the expected suppression in LepRNull mice  , compared to lean controls  . Importantly , LepR reactivation recovered the expression of Lepr-b mRNA in Ubi-LepRNull mice  . To further validate our experimental model , we evaluated the leptin responsiveness in key hypothalamic nuclei that contain LepR-expressing neurons  . For this purpose , we assessed the capacity of leptin to induce the phosphorylation of STAT3  , which depends on the long LepR isoform  . leptin injection induced a robust pSTAT3 immunoreactivity in the ventromedial subdivision of the ARH  , lateral subdivision of the ARH  , dorsomedial nucleus  , ventromedial nucleus  and ventral premammillary nucleus  of control Ubi mice  . In accordance with the deficiency of the long LepR isoform , LepRNull mice show virtually no pSTAT3 in the hypothalamus  . Importantly , tamoxifen injections restored leptin responsiveness in Ubi-LepRNull mice to a similar extent as that found in the Ubi group  . leptin injection . Leptin induced a similar decrease of food intake and body weight in Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull mice , whereas LepRNull mice remained unresponsive to leptin  . Altogether , these findings demonstrate that although mice were depleted from the effects of leptin until the 10th week of life , tamoxifen injections completely restored leptin signaling in adult Ubi-LepRNull mice . We found that body weight and food intake of Ubi-LepRNull mice were stabilized 6 weeks after tamoxifen treatment  . Despite the marked weight loss induced by LepR reactivation , Ubi-LepRNull male mice remained heavier and had higher body adiposity and leptinemia , compared to control Ubi mice  . These changes occurred despite a complete normalization of food intake in Ubi-LepRNull mice  . On the other hand , oxygen consumption  remained significantly lower in Ubi-LepRNull male mice compared to lean controls  , indicating that the increased adiposity of Ubi-LepRNull mice could be explained by a partial recovery in their energy expenditure . The respiratory exchange ratio  of Ubi-LepRNull male mice was normalized , restoring the circadian rhythm of fuel oxidation which was absent in LepR deficient mice  . As seen in the energy expenditure , the phenotype of hypoactivity observed in LepRNull mice was only partially restored in Ubi-LepRNull male animals  . As seen in males , Ubi-LepRNull females remained heavier and had higher body adiposity compared to Ubi mice  , although serum leptin levels and food intake were completely normalized  . Ubi-LepRNull females also exhibited a partial recovery in their energy expenditure in the dark phase compared to Ubi mice  . Additionally , RER was normalized after LepR reactivation  , whereas Ubi-LepRNull females displayed a partial recovery in their ambulatory activity , compared to Ubi mice  . LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice showed a lower fasting-induced weight loss compared to Ubi mice  . Notably , while Ubi mice adapted to fasting by decreasing the energy expenditure , both LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice exhibited an attenuated reduction compared to baseline  . We measured the food intake 4 , 12 , 24 and 48 hr after a 24 hr fasting period and observed a similar refeeding response between male and female Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull mice , whereas male LepRNull mice exhibited an increase in food intake after 24 and 48 hr of refeeding  . Interestingly , both LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice showed higher HFD intake compared to Ubi animals  . To investigate the possible causes of the metabolic imbalances exhibited by Ubi-LepRNull mice , we assessed the hypothalamic expression of key genes involved in energy balance regulation . As expected , LepRNull mice showed increased agouti-related protein  and neuropeptide Y  mRNA levels in the hypothalamus , whereas the expression of proopiomelanocortin  and cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript  was reduced compared to Ubi mice  . LepR reactivation downregulated Agrp and Npy mRNA levels in the hypothalamus of Ubi-LepRNull mice . However , Pomc and Cartpt expression was not restored and remained significantly lower compared to control Ubi mice  . We observed a similar number of ARH POMC neurons between Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull mice  . Thus , we assessed the hypothalamic expression of Prlh mRNA , which was suppressed in LepRNull mice and remained lower in the hypothalamus of Ubi-LepRNull mice  . Hence , the expression of some histone deacetylases  was also determined and we observed that Hdac3 and Hdac5 mRNA levels were suppressed in the hypothalamus of LepRNull mice and were not normalized after LepR reactivation  . Hdac8expression was increased in the hypothalamus of LepRNull mice , but it returned to normal values in Ubi-LepRNull mice  . We analyzed the expression of some Dnmt and we observed that Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b mRNA levels were suppressed in the hypothalamus of both LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice , compared to Ubi animals  . LepRNull mice showed the expected glucose intolerance , as well as increased insulin resistance and serum insulin concentrations  . Glucose tolerance of Ubi-LepRNull mice was normalized in both males  and females  . However , Ubi-LepRNull mice remained less responsive to insulin  . In accordance with their insulin resistance , serum insulin concentrations remained significantly higher in Ubi-LepRNull mice , compared to Ubi mice  . LepR reactivation in 10-week-old mice induced a marked weight loss  . Thus , it is unclear whether the alterations in the energy and glucose homeostasis of Ubi-LepRNull mice were caused by the absence of leptin in early life or were associated with the metabolic consequences of a robust weight loss  . Therefore , LepR reactivation was induced before the onset of obesity , and consequently Ubi-LepRNull mice were not exposed to weight loss  . Hypothalamic gene expression analysis indicated that Ubi-LepRNull mice exhibited a similar Lepr-b mRNA expression  compared to Ubi mice  , whereas LepRNull mice showed suppressed hypothalamic Lepr-b mRNA levels  . LepR reactivation before the onset of obesity did not affect the body weight of Ubi-LepRNull males in the long-term , but Ubi-LepRNull females still showed higher body weight than Ubi mice  . Notably , both male and female Ubi-LepRNull mice exhibited increased fat deposition in the perigonadal depot  , although no differences were observed in other fat pads  or in serum leptin concentration in male mice  . Food intake was also completely normalized in male and female Ubi-LepRNull mice  . In contrast , RER and ambulatory activity were normalized in young Ubi-LepRNull male mice  . In contrast to the results observed after LepR reactivation in adult mice , LepR reactivation before the onset of obesity completely normalized the glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in both male and female Ubi-LepRNull mice  . We initially assessed the thyroid axis and observed that LepRNull males exhibited the expected suppression in serum T4 concentration  , while Ubi-LepRNull mice showed similar values to Ubi animals  . LepRNull mice also displayed higher serum corticosterone concentration compared to Ubi animals , whereas LepR reactivation normalized the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis  . In males , LepRNull mice showed lower serum testosterone concentration compared to Ubi animals , whereas Ubi-LepRNull mice exhibited intermediate values  . Notably , LepR reactivation in adult animals was unable to completely restore testicle weight , which was reduced by LepR deficiency  . To evaluate how these changes affected their fertility , Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull males were mated with wild-type females for 28 days . We observed that only 10%  of females mating with Ubi-LepRNull males got pregnant , whereas the percentage of pregnancy increased to approximately 50% when females mated with Ubi mice . We evaluated the density of GnRH fibers reaching the median eminence and observed the expected increase in the integrated optical density of GnRH staining in LepRNull mice , compared to Ubi animals  . Remarkably , LepR reactivation did not restore GnRH fiber density in the hypothalamus of Ubi-LepRNull mice  . We observed a reduction in the expression of these transcripts in the hypothalamus of LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice  , indicating that LepR reactivation in adults was not able to normalize Kiss1 and Nos1 mRNA levels . We only evaluated the testicle weight in mice that had the LepR reactivation before the onset of obesity . However , as seen in adult animals , LepR reactivation in the fourth week of life was not capable of restoring testicle weight to values found in Ubi mice  . Ubi mice showed the expected variations in the estrous cycle  . In contrast , the vaginal cytology of LepRNull mice indicated a prevalence of leukocytes and a complete absence of cornification and estrous cyclicity . LepR reactivation increased the appearance of cornified cells in the vaginal smear , although the disruption of the estrous cycle was still evident in Ubi-LepRNull mice  . Thus , these data suggest disruption in the reproductive system of male and female mice that grew without leptin signaling until adulthood . LepRNull male and female mice exhibited reduced brain mass  . Notably , LepR reactivation in adult animals partially recovered brain mass , although it remained significantly lower in Ubi-LepRNull mice compared to Ubi animals  . The expression of none of these transcripts was completely restored in Ubi-LepRNull mice  . Additionally , the glial fibrillary acidic protein  expression was suppressed in the hypothalamus of LepRNull and Ubi-LepRNull mice in comparison with Ubi animals  . The brain mass was also determined in mice that recovered LepR expression before the onset of obesity . While Ubi-LepRNull males still exhibited reduced brain mass compared to Ubi mice  , no significant difference was observed between Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull females  . To determine whether the aforementioned alterations in Ubi-LepRNull mice could lead to behavioral or cognitive deficits , male mice were subjected to behavioral tests . In the open field , we observed that LepRNull mice showed reduced exploration , whereas LepR reactivation normalized this behavior  . In this case , LepRNull mice were not evaluated due to their decreased voluntary ambulatory activity . Along the training period , Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull mice reduced the primary latency  and the number of primary errors  to reach the escape box , indicating that both groups learned the task . During the test sessions , Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull mice also showed similar learning capacity since the time spent in the target zone were similar between the groups 24 hr  and 1 week  after the training period . To initially investigate the projections of ARH neurons to the PVH , we crossed Lepob/+ mice with LepR-Cre::LSL-tdTomato mice , in order to produce leptin deficient mice expressing the tdTomato fluorescent protein only in LepR cells . Thus , we compared the distribution of axons in the PVH between control  and Lepob/ob::LepR-Cre::LSL-tdTomato mice . This result indicates that the absence of leptin signaling reduces the density of axons from LepR-expressing neurons that innervate the PVH . We confirmed that LepRNull mice had reduced density of AgRP and POMC fibers in the PVH , compared to Ubi mice  . The metabolic dysfunctions caused by the lack of leptin signaling during development possibly involved changes in neural populations that regulate the energy expenditure , such as POMC or Prlh neurons in the hypothalamus , as well as epigenetic mechanisms since the hypothalamic expression of several enzymes that modulate DNA methylation or histone acetylation were affected in Ubi-LepRNull mice . Although the complete absence of leptin signaling is rarely found in humans , both undernutrition and overnutrition are able to produce significant changes in serum leptin concentrations , leptin sensitivity or in the development of neurocircuits that regulate energy homeostasis  . Experiments were performed in male and female mice . To induce reactivation of the Lepr gene , a Lox-flanked transcription-blocking cassette  was inserted in the Lepr gene to generate mice null for the Lepr  . To visualize LepR-expressing cells , we generated a LepR-reporter mouse by breeding the LepR-Cre mouse ( B6 . We then crossed Lepob/+ mice  with LepR-Cre::LSL-tdTomato mice , in order to produce leptin deficient mice expressing the tdTomato fluorescent protein only in LepR cells . All mice received 5 i . To visualize leptin responsive cells in the brain , adult mice  received an acute i . injection of mouse recombinant leptin  and were perfused 90 min later . To assess leptin sensitivity , adult mice received an i . Both parameters after PBS injection were compared with the values after leptin administration . To assess fertility in males , Ubi and Ubi-LepRNull adult males  were mated with C57BL6 female mice  for 28 days and the number of pregnant females from each group was compared . 
The Arabidopsis immune receptor FLS2 perceives bacterial flagellin epitope flg22 to activate defenses through the central cytoplasmic kinase BIK1 . The heterotrimeric G proteins composed of the non-canonical Gα protein XLG2 , the Gβ protein AGB1 , and the Gγ proteins AGG1 and AGG2 are required for FLS2-mediated immune responses through an unknown mechanism . Here we show that in the pre-activation state , XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 , and it functions together with AGB1 and AGG1/2 to attenuate proteasome-mediated degradation of BIK1 , allowing optimum immune activation . Following the activation by flg22 , XLG2 dissociates from AGB1 and is phosphorylated by BIK1 in the N terminus . The phosphorylated XLG2 enhances the production of reactive oxygen species  likely by modulating the NADPH oxidase RbohD . We and others previously showed that BIK1 directly phosphorylates the NADPH oxidase RbohD to prime flg22-induced reactive oxygen species  . Recent reports indicate that XLG2 , AGB1 , and AGG1/2 mediate immune responses downstream of PRRs  . XLG2 was first shown to play an important role in basal resistance to P . A recent report showed that XLG2 , but not XLG1 , is required for resistance to P . syringae and flg22-induced ROS production  . AGB1 and AGG1/2 , but not AGG3 , are required for resistance to P . How XLG2 and AGB1 regulate PRR-mediated immunity remains elusive . In this study , we report XLG2 , AGB1 , and AGG1/2 modulates flg22-triggered immunity by directly coupling to the FLS2-BIK1 receptor complex . Prior to activation by flg22 , the G proteins attenuate the proteasome-dependent degradation of BIK1 , ensuring optimum signaling competence . After flg22 stimulation , XLG2 dissociates from AGB1 , indicating a ligand-induced dissociation of Gα from Gβγ . In addition , we provide evidence that activation by flg22 additionally leads to XLG2 phospohrylation by BIK1 , and this phosphorylation positively regulates RbohD-dependent ROS production . One mutant displayed significantly reduced resistance was xlg2  , confirming previous report by Zhu et al . An examination of gene expression showed that XLG2 , XLG3 , and AGB1 , but not XLG1 , were induced in response to flg22 treatment  . This is in agreement with the recent report that XLG2/3 , but not XLG1 , are required for flg22-induced responses and disease resistance to P . A comparison of xlg2 and agb1 mutant showed that the two mutants were similarly compromised in flg22-induced ROS burst and resistance against Pst , supporting that they act together to regulate FLS2 immunity . Interestingly , xlg2 plants were more susceptible to Pst than agb1 plants in the absence of flg22 treatment  , suggesting that XLG2 plays additional role in plant immunity independent of AGB1 . As reported previously  , we found that the xlg3 mutant was similar to WT in Pst resistance and flg22-induced ROS , whereas the xlg2 xlg3 double mutant was slightly more defective in Pst resistance  and flg22-induced ROS  , indicating that XLG2/3 play additive roles in flg22-induced immunity . XLG2/3 and AGB1 play overlapping but not identical roles in disease resistance to Pst . xlg2/3 and agb1 are similarly compromised in flg22-induced ROS burst . Flg22 treatment disrupts XLG2-AGB1 interaction . Cluc-XLG2 and AGB1-HA-Nluc constructs are transiently expressed in Nb leaves , relative luminescence unit  was measured 2 days later . Flg22-induced RbohD phosphorylation is impaired in agb1 . FLAG-RbohD and/or AGB1-HA constructs were expressed under control of the 35S promoter in WT or agb1 protoplasts . Flg22-induced ROS burst is compromised in xlg2 plants . Flg22-induced ROS burst is compromised in xlg2 plants . Col-0 , xlg2 , and xlg2 transgenic lines complemented with the XLG2 transgene under control of the XLG2 native promoter were examined for flg22-induced ROS burst . XLG2/3 and AGB1 , but not XLG1 , are transcriptionally induced by flg22 . XLG2/3 interact with AGB1 through both N and C termini . Luciferase complementation assay for XLG2/3-AGB1 interactions in Nb plants . Co-IP assay for XLG2/3-AGB1 interaction in protoplasts . Both N and C termini of XLG2 interact with AGB1 . XLG2NT-FLAG contains amino acids 1–458 whereas XLG2CT-FLAG contains amino acids 459–861 . Consistent with this , luciferase complementation and co-immunoprecipitation assays detected XLG2-AGB1 and XLG3-AGB1 interactions in Nicotiana Benthamiana  plants  and Arabidopsis protoplasts  . Both the N and C termini of XLG2 are sufficient for the interaction with AGB1  . Note that XLG2-FLAG and AGB1-HA used in co-IP assays retain their biological functions when introduced into agb1 protoplasts or xlg2 plants  . We tested whether flg22 treatment can similarly regulate XLG2-AGB1 interaction . As shown in Figure 1C , the flg22 treatment resulted in a great reduction in XLG2-AGB1 interaction in Nb plants , suggesting that Arabidopsis heterotrimeric G proteins are reminiscent of their animal counterparts in that the heterotrimer is dynamically regulated upon ligand activation of receptors . Because the heterotrimeric G protein mutants under investigation all display defects in flg22-induced ROS , which requires phosphorylation of the NADPH oxidase RbohD by the BIK1 kinase  , we monitored the flg22-induced phosphorylation of RbohD in agb1 using antibodies that recognize the BIK1-specific S39 phosphorylation . Flg22-induced S39 phosphorylation was significantly reduced in agb1 mutant protoplasts , whereas complementation of the mutant protoplasts with AGB1 restored RbohD S39 phosphorylation  . Consistent with a positive role of AGB1 in flg22-induced RbohD S39 phosphorylation , transient overexpression of AGB1 in WT protoplasts resulted in constitutive S39 phosphorylation in RbohD  . To identify potential proteins regulated by XLG2 , we performed immunoprecipitation of XLG2-FLAG transiently expressed in protoplasts . Co-IP and luciferase complementation assays confirmed that XLG2/3 indeed interacted strongly with PBL20  . AGB1 also interacted with PBL20 , albeit much weaker than did XLG2 . Luciferase complementation assays showed that XLG2/3 strongly interacted with BIK1 but not BAK1 or CPR5 in Nb plants  , whereas AGB1 interacted with BIK1 at a much lower level . Similarly , FLS2 also displayed strong interactions with XLG2/3 and a weaker interaction with AGB1  . In the absence of flg22 treatment , XLG2/3 strongly interacted with BIK1 and FLS2  . Treatment of protoplasts with flg22 led to a much weaker interaction , indicating that flg22 induces dissociation of XLG2 from the FLS2 receptor complex . The BIK1K105E-HA mutant protein , which is defective in ATP-binding and dominantly inhibits flg22-induced signaling when expressed in protoplasts  , interacted with XLG2 and XLG3 irrespective of the presence or absence of flg22 , suggesting that the activation of the BIK1 kinase is required for the dissociation . Flg22 regulates interactions between G proteins and the FLS2-BIK1 receptor complex . XLG2 and AGB1 interact with BIK1 and FLS2 in Nb plants . XLG2 interacts with BIK1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts and the interaction is dynamically regulated by flg22 . XLG2/3 interact with FLS2 in Arabidopsis protoplasts and the interaction is dynamically regulated by flg22 . BIK1K105E carries a mutation in the ATP-binding site . The C terminus of XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 kinase domain . XLG2CT-HIS  was incubated with GST or GST-FLS2KD  for GST pull-down assay and detected by anti-HIS and anti-GST immunoblots . XLG2 primarily interacts with non-phosphorylated BIK1 . XLG2CT-HIS was incubated with GST or GST-BIK1 that was untreated or pre-treated with λ phosphatase  , and GST pull-down assay was performed . AGB1 interacts with the non-phosphorylated BIK1 . Untreated or PPase-treated BIK1-HIS was incubated with GST or GST-AGB1 , and GST pull-down assay was performed . Identification of PBL20 as a XLG2-interacting protein . XLG2-FLAG was expressed in protoplasts , isolated by anti-FLAG immunoprecitation and subject to LC-MS/MS . PBL20 interacts strongly with XLG2 and weakly with AGB1 in Arabidopsis protoplasts . PBL20 interacts with XLG2 in Nb plants . XLG3 interacts with BIK1 . XLG3 interacts with BIK1 in Nb plants . XLG3 interacts with BIK1 in protoplasts . XLG2 interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 primarily through the C terminus . XLG2 C terminus interacts with FLS2 in Nb plants . XLG2 C terminus interacts with BIK1 . XLG2 C terminus interacts with FLS2 . 011 We next tested XLG2 domains for interactions with BIK1 and FLS2 . Luciferase complementation and Co-IP assays showed that the C terminus of XLG2 interacted strongly with BIK1 and FLS2 , whereas the N terminus of XLG2 displayed weak interactions  , indicating that XLG2 interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 primarily through its C terminus . Similar to the full-length XLG2 protein , the C terminus of XLG2 also dissociated from BIK1 when protoplasts were treated with flg22  . GST pull-down assays showed that the HIS-tagged C-terminal fragment of XLG2 strongly interacted with GST-tagged FLS2 kinase domain , but not GST alone  , indicating that the C terminus of XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 . Surprisingly , GST pull-down assay showed a weak interaction between XLG2 and BIK1  . Interestingly , phosphatase treatment of BIK1 enhanced its interaction with XLG2  , suggesting that XLG2 has greater affinity with non-phosphorylated BIK1 . We similarly tested interaction between AGB1 with untreated and de-phosphorylated BIK1 by GST pull-down assay . While the un-treated BIK1 is unable to interact with AGB1 , the de-phosphorylated form of BIK1 strongly interacted with AGB1  . G proteins positively regulate immunity and BIK1 stability . AGB1 is required for accumulation of BIK1 , but not FLS2 and BAK1 . BIK1-HA was introduced into agb1 by crossing , homozygotes of the indicated genotypes in F3 generation were used for immunoblot analyses . AGG1/2 are required for BIK1 stability . NP::BIK1-HA was introduced into agg1/2 by crossing , homozygous plants in F3 generation were subject to immunoblot analyses . XLG2/3 are required for BIK1 accumulation . NP::BIK1-HA , 35S::BIK1-HA and NP::BAK1-HA plasmids were transiently expressed in WT and xlg2/3 protoplasts , and accumulation of BIK1 and BAK1 was determined by immunoblot analyses . AGB1 regulates BIK1 accumulation through the proteasome pathway . The agb1 extract shows accelerated degradation of BIK1 in vitro  The xlg2 xlg3 extract shows accelerated degradation of BIK1 . Total extracts from WT  , agb1 and xlg2 xlg3 seedlings were incubated with HIS-BIK1 protein at 22°C for the indicated times , and equal amounts of sample were analyzed using anti-HIS immunoblot . G proteins are required for BIK1 stability . agb1 plants are largely normal in BIK1 transcription . Accumulation of BIK1 expressed from a transgene under control of the constitutive 35S promoter was similarly compromised in the agb1-2 mutant . 35S::BIK1-HA transgenic lines in WT and agb1-2 background with similar BIK1 transcript levels were identified by Semi-qPCR and used for detection of BIK1 accumulation . Accumulation of BIK1 is not compromised in the gpa1-3 mutant . NP::BIK1-HA was introduced into gpa1-3 by crossing , and BIK1 accumulation was detected by anti-HA immunoblot . AGB1 regulates BIK1 stability through proteasome pathway . Treatment with MG132 allows accumulation of BIK1 in agb1 mutant seedlings . NP::BIK1-HA seedlings of WT  and agb1 background were treated with DMSO  or 100 μM speciﬁc proteasome inhibitor MG132  for 8 hr , BIK1 stability was detected by anti-HA immunoblot . Treatment with PS341 inhibits BIK1 degradation in vitro . AGB1 and XLG2/3 attenuate PBL20 degradation . Accelerated PBL20 degradation in agb1 extracts . Accelerated PBL20 degradation in xlg2 xlg3 extracts . Total extracts from WT , agb1 and xlg2/3 were incubated with the PBL20-HIS recombinant protein , and equal amounts of sample were withdrawn at the indicated times for anti-HIS immunoblot analyses . 015 The direct interaction of XLG2/3 with the FLS2 receptor complex prompted us to examine FLS2 , BIK1 and BAK1 proteins in the G protein mutants . To examine BIK1 accumulation , we crossed agb1 with a transgenic line carrying a BIK1-HA transgene under control of the native BIK1 promoter  and identified sibling transgenic lines of either agb1 or AGB1 genotype . Immunoblot analyses showed that the BIK1-HA protein accumulated to a much lower level in agb1 compared to WT  , indicating that AGB1 is required for BIK1 accumulation in plants . In contrast , FLS2 and BAK1 protein accumulation was not affected in agb1 , indicating a specific effect on BIK1 protein . Examination of BIK1-HA transcripts indicated that the transgene is similarly expressed in agb1 and WT plants  . To further rule out the possibility that AGB1 modulates BIK1 at transcriptional level , we transformed agb1 and WT plants with BIK1-HA transgene under the control of the 35S promoter . Again , a much lower BIK1-HA accumulation was observed in agb1 than in WT plants although the BIK1-HA transcripts accumulated to similar levels in the two lines  . Similarly , the BIK1-HA protein accumulation was greatly reduced in agg1 agg2 double mutant plants  , indicating that AGG1/2 are also required for BIK1 accumulation . We further asked whether XLG2 and XLG3 are required for BIK1 accumulation by transiently expressing BIK1-HA in xlg2 xlg3 mutant protoplasts . Regardless of the promoter used for BIK1-HA expression , BIK1 accumulated to lower levels in the xlg2 xlg3 double mutant than in WT protoplasts  , indicating that XLG2/3 are also required for BIK1 accumulation . The defect in protein accumulation is specific to BIK1 , as BAK1 accumulation was not affected in xlg2 xlg3 protoplasts  . The accumulation of BIK1-HA was not affected in gpa1 mutant plants  , a result that is consistent with previous report that GPA1 is not required for flg22-induced ROS  . BIK1 is known to be turned-over through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway  . Treatment of plants with proteasome inhibitors PS341  and MG132  restored BIK1 accumulation in agb1 mutant plants , suggesting that AGB1 regulates BIK1 stability through the proteasome pathway . We further performed in vitro protein degradation assay to compare the rate of BIK1 degradation in total protein extracts from WT and mutant plants . The recombinant BIK1 was degraded in the WT extract , and this degradation was blocked by PS341  , recapitulating the proteasome-dependent degradation of BIK1 in plants . The rate of BIK1 degradation was more rapid in agb1 and xlg2 xlg3 extracts compared to that in the WT extract  . Because XLG2 also interacted with PBL20 , we further tested whether XLG2/3 and AGB1 similarly regulate PBL20 stability . Indeed , PBL20 was also degraded in WT extracts , and this degradation was enhanced when extracts from xlg2 xlg3 or agb1 mutants were used  . Together these results demonstrate that the heterotrimeric G proteins formed by XLG2/3 , AGB1 , and AGG1/2 attenuate proteasome-dependent degradation of BIK1 and PBL20 . We next tested whether the regulation of BIK1 stability contributes to the role of heterotrimeric G proteins in flg22-induced immune responses . Transient overexpression of BIK1 in xlg2 xlg3 and agb1 protoplasts largely restored the flg22-induced RbohD S39 phosphorylation  , indicating that the heterotrimeric G proteins positively regulate RbohD phosphorylation at least in part by enhancing BIK1 stability . We next asked whether increased copy number of BIK1 could rescue flg22-induced ROS burst in agb1 mutant . Introgression of the NP::BIK1-HA transgene into agb1 by crossing significantly enhanced flg22-induced ROS production in these plants compared to agb1 plants that contained only the endogenous copy of BIK1  , indicating that increasing BIK1 accumulation by the transgene at least partially restored flg22-induced ROS in agb1 . Col-0 NP::BIK1-HA plants displayed higher level of ROS compared to non-transgenic WT plants  , indicating that BIK1 protein level is rate-limiting in flg22-induced immune responses . We further tested the impact of the NP::BIK1-HA transgene on flg22-induced resistance to Pst . While the agb1 consistently supported greater amount of bacterial growth compared to WT plants following flg22 treatment , the agb1 NP::BIK1-HA plants were indistinguishable from WT  . Col-0 NP::BIK1-HA plants supported less bacterial growth than did WT plants , further supporting the importance of BIK1 abundance in FLS2-mediated immunity . We similarly introduced the NP::BIK1-HA transgene into xlg2 xlg3 double mutant plants by transformation . The resulting transgenic lines displayed near WT ROS production  and Pst resistance  in response to flg22 treatment , indicating that XLG2/3 also regulate FLS2-mediated immunity by controlling BIK1 stability . BIK1 level accounts for G protein-mediated regulation of FLS2 immunity . Transient expression of BIK1 in agb1 and xlg2/3 mutant protoplasts restores RbohD phosphorylation . FLAG-RbohD and BIK1-HA constructs are transiently expressed in protoplasts from WT  , agb1 and xlg2/3 . BIK1 transgene restores flg22-induced ROS burst in agb1 . BIK1 transgene partially restores flg22-induced resistance to Pst in agb1 . NP::BIK1-HA was introduced into agb1 by crossing , transgenic lines of agb1 or Col-0 background in the F3 generation were used for the assays . BIK1 transgene partially restores flg22-induced ROS burst in xlg2 xlg3 mutant . BIK1 transgene partially restores flg22-induced resistance to Pst . The NP::BIK1-HA transgene was introduced into WT  and xlg2 xlg3  plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation . 017 BIK1 is postulated to phosphorylate multiple proteins , including RbohD , in PTI  signaling  . An examination of XLG2 N-terminal fragment expressed in protoplasts following flg22 treatment showed a prominent shift in protein migration in SDS-PAGE  . The shift of protein mobility was sensitive to phosphatase treatment , which is indicative of flg22-induced phosphorylation in XLG2 . The flg22-induced phosphorylation similarly occurred to the N terminus of XLG3 , but not XLG1  , which is consistent with the notion that XLG2/3 but not XLG1 , are involved in flg22 signaling . To determine phospho-sites in XLG2 , we expressed full-length XLG2-FLAG in protoplasts . Following flg22 treatment , the XLG2-FLAG protein was affinity-purified and subject to LC-MS/MS analysis for phospho-peptides . Simultaneously substituting three to four of these residues into non-phosphorylatable alanine  resulted in severe reduction to complete elimination in flg22-induced band shift in XLG2 N terminus  , indicating that amino acids Ser141 , Ser148 , Ser150 and Ser151 are indeed required for overall phosphorylation of XLG2 in response to flg22 treatment . Phosphorylation of XLG2 by BIK1 regulates flg22-induced ROS . Flg22-induces phosphorylation of XLG2 in the N terminus . Protoplasts expressing XLG21-203-FLAG were treated with flg22 . Flg22-induced phosphorylation of XLG2 in protoplasts primarily occurs in Ser141 , Ser148 , Ser150 and Ser151 . Different mutated form of XLG21-203-FLAG constructs were transiently expressed in WT protoplast , treated with flg22 and the migration of XLG21-203-FLAG were examined by anti-FLAG immunoblot . BIK1 phosphorylates XLG2 N terminus in vitro . XLG21-203-HIS was incubated with HIS-BIK1 and HIS-BIK1K105E in the presence of 32P-γ-ATP and analyzed by autoradiography . BIK1 phosphorylates XLG2 at Ser148 and Ser150 in vitro . XLG21-203-HIS was incubated with HIS-BIK1 and HIS-BIK1K105E in kinase reaction buffer . XLG2 phosphorylation is required for flg22-induced ROS . xlg2 mutant plants were transformed with WT  , non-phosphorylatable  , or phospho-mimicking  forms of XLG2 under control of the native XLG2 promoter . XLG2 phosphorylation is required for Pst resistance . xlg2/3 double mutant plants were transformed with WT  or non-phosphorylatable  form of XLG2 under control of the native XLG2 promoter . XLG2 interacts with RbohD in Arabidopsis plants . The N terminus of XLG3 , but not XLG1 , is phophorylated upon flg22-treatment . WT protoplasts were transfected with XLG11-188-FLAG or XLG31-200-FLAG , treated with flg22 , and protein was analyzed by anti-FLAG immunoblot . Phospho-sites in XLG2 isolated from flg22-treated protoplasts . Protoplasts prepared from WT plants were transfected with XLG2-FLAG and treated with flg22 for 10 min , affinity-purified and subjected to LC-MS/MS for phospho-sites identification . Mutations that block or mimic XLG2 phosphorylation do not impact BIK1 stability and XLG2-BIK1 interaction . WT or xlg2 xlg3 protoplasts were transfected with BIK1-HA along with WT , non-phosphorylatable  , phospho-mimicking  forms of XLG2-FLAG constructs , treated with  or without  flg22 , and total protein was subject to Co-IP assays and immunoblot analysis . XLG2/3 interact with RbohD in Nb plants . 023 We next tested whether BIK1 is able to phosphorylate XLG2 N terminus in vitro Radio-labelling assay showed that the recombinant BIK1 , but not BIK1K105E , strongly phosphorylated the N terminus of XLG2  . To determine whether the major phospho-sites in XLG2 were also phosphorylated by BIK1 , we raised antibodies that specifically recognize phospho-S148 and phospho-S150 . Immunoblot analysis showed that S148 and S150 were indeed phosphorylated in vitro by BIK1 , but not BIK1K105E  . We introduced WT , non-phosphorylatable  and phospho-mimicking  forms of XLG2-FLAG transgene under control of the native XLG2 promoter into xlg2 plants and analyzed flg22-induced ROS production in the resulting transgenic lines . While the xlg2 transgenic lines carrying the WT or phospho-mimicking XLG2-FLAG transgene completely restored the flg22-induced ROS to WT level , the two lines transformed with the non-phosphorylatable XLG2-FLAG transgene only partially restored the flg22-induced ROS  . The inability of phospho-mimicking XLG2 to constitutively activate ROS suggests that the phosphorylation of XLG2 is required , but not sufficient , for optimum activation of RbohD . We further introduced WT and the non-phosphorylatable XLG2-FLAG transgene into xlg2/3 double mutants , and inoculated independent lines with Pst . While the line carrying the WT XLG2-FLAG transgene was fully restored in resistance to Pst that was indistinguishable from the WT non-transgenic plants , the two lines transformed with the non-phosphorylatable XLG-FLAG transgene were only marginally more resistant to Pst  . These results indicated that the phosphorylation is required , but not sufficient , for full function of XLG2 . We next asked whether the phospho-site mutants affect BIK1 stability or XLG2-BIK1 interaction . When expressed in protoplasts isolated from xlg2 xlg3 plants , the phospho-site mutants allowed similar BIK1-HA accumulation compared to protoplasts expressing the WT XLG2 protein  . These mutants also showed normal interaction with BIK1 in the absence of flg22 and normal dissociation from BIK1 in the presence of flg22 . The results suggest that the phosphorylation of these sites affected neither BIK1 stability nor interaction with BIK1 . Because XLG2 dissociates from BIK1 following activation by flg22  , we reasoned that XLG2 may have additional effectors . Indeed , XLG2 interacted strongly with RbohD in Arabidopsis plants  and Nb plants  , providing an explanation that XLG2 phosphorylation regulates ROS burst independent of BIK1 stability . The XLG2-RbohD interaction was detected in the absence of flg22 treatment , indicating that the XLG2 constitutively interacts with RbohD . We show that XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 to regulate FLS2-mediated immunity . The interaction between XLG2/3 and AGB1 , which leads to the formation of XLG2/3-AGB1-AGG1/2 heterotrimers  , is dynamically regulated by flg22 . The flg22-induced dissociation of XLG2 from AGB1 likely reflects an increase of GTP-bound form of Gα which dissociates from the Gβγ dimer upon receptor activation . Secondly , the interactions of the G proteins with FLS2 and BIK1 are also dynamically regulated by flg22 . The flg22-induced dissociation of the G proteins from BIK1 coincides with the flg22-induced BIK1 phosphorylation , suggesting that the flg22-induced BIK1 phosphorylation triggers the dissociation of the G proteins . Indeed , de-phosphorylation of BIK1 strongly enhanced its interactions with both XLG2 and AGB1 in vitro . BIK1 is subject to proteasome-dependent degradation  . Our genetic analyses indicated that XLG2 , AGB1 and AGG1/2 are required for BIK1 stability in the pre-activation state . Loss of XLG2 and AGB1 leads to accelerated degradation of BIK1 , and this is blocked by the addition of proteasome inhibitors , indicating that the G proteins attenuating the proteasome-dependent degradation of BIK1 . These observations raise an interesting question as to whether the G proteins specifically impede the ubiquitination of BIK1 or loading of BIK1 to proteasome . Importantly , introduction of a transgenic copy of BIK1 largely restored flg22-triggered immune responses and disease resistance in xlg2 and agb1 mutants , demonstrating that a major function of the heterotrimeric G protein is to maintain the signaling competence of the FLS2-BIK1 complex in the pre-activation state . In addition to the ligand-induced dissociation of XLG2 from AGB1 , flg22 induces the phosphorylation of XLG2 in the N terminus . This phosphorylation is likely caused by the BIK1 family kinases , as two of the major phosphor-sites induced by flg22 are also phosphorylated by BIK1 in vitro . Non-phosphorylatable XLG2 mutants are compromised in flg22-induced ROS production and disease resistance to Pst , indicating that the phosphorylation plays a positive role . However , mutations in the phospho-sites did not affect XLG2-BIK1 interaction nor BIK1 stability , suggesting that the phosphorylated XLG2 regulates components other than BIK1 . Indeed , XLG2 constitutively interacts with RbohD , suggesting that the phosphorylated XLG2 further enhances ROS production by modulating RbohD . The results presented here show that RbohD is additionally regulated by a phosphorylated XLG2 , although the underlying mechanism remains unknown . Arabidopsis plants used in this study include WT  , xlg2 , xlg2 xlg3  , xlg3  , agb1-2  , gpa1-3  and agg1 agg2 mutants  , and NP::BIK1-HA  and NP::FLAG-RbohD transgenic lines  . For complementation of xlg2  , XLG2 genomic sequence containing 2 kb native promoter and 0 . To generate XLG2 transgenic plants containing mutated phosphosites  , a fragment containing 2 kb native promoter and coding sequence of XLG2 was fused to FLAG tag at the C terminus followed by the RBS terminator and cloned into pENTY vector . Mutations were introduced into pENTY-XLG2-FLAG by site-directed mutagenesis . All forms of XLG2-FLAG were transferred to pFAST-G01 and introduced into xlg2 or xlg2 xlg3 mutant plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation . To generate BIK1-HA transgenic plants in agb1 , gpa1-3 and agg1 agg2 background , the NP::BIK1-HA transgene  was introduced into agb1 , agg1/2 and gpa1-3 by crossing . To express BIK1-HA under the 35S promoter , the cDNA of BIK1 was amplified by PCR and cloned into pCambia1300 with a 3x HA tag . Transgenic plants expressing 35S::BIK1-HA were generated by transforming WT or agb1-2 mutant plants with the pCambia1300-BIK1-HA construct . To generate BIK1-HA transgenic plants in xlg2 xlg3 background , the pCAMBIA1300-NP::BIK1-HA-RBS  construct was introduced into WT and xlg2 xlg3 plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation . XLG2-FLAG plasmid was transfected into WT Arabidopsis protoplasts and incubated at room temperature for 14 hr . To identify XLG2 phosphosites , protoplasts were treated with 1 μM flg22 for 10 min before extraction . For GST pull-down assay , GST-BIK1 , GST-BIK1K105E , GST-FLS2KD and XLG2CT-HIS proteins were purified using the glutathione agarose beads and Ni-NTA agarose beads . For in vitro phosphorylation assay , 200 ng HIS-BIK1 or HIS-BIK1K105E was incubated with 2 μg XLG21-203-HIS protein in the kinase reaction buffer  for 30 min . The phosphorylation of XLG21-203 was detected by autoradiograph  or by immunoblot using phosphosite-speciﬁc antibodies . Primers for Real-Time PCR: ACT8-RT-F: 5'-TGTGACAATGGTACTGGAATGG-3' ACT8-RT-R: 5'-TTGGATTGTGCTTCATCACC -3' XLG1-RT-F: 5'-TGATGGTGAGGATTGTGAATTGA-3' XLG1-RT-R: 5'-TTCCCAATCCGGTACTAACGG-3' XLG2-RT-F: 5'-ATTGCTAATGTGCCACGAGCT-3' XLG2-RT-R: 5'-ACGAGAGGTGCCACTGGGTAA-3' XLG3-RT-F: 5'-CCGGTTGTGAAATTCAAACCTG-3' XLG3-RT-R: 5'-TCCCTCTCTGTCTCTGCCTCC-3' BIK1-HA-RT-F: 5'-CAGGACAACTTGGGAAAACCG-3' BIK1-HA-RT-R: 5'-TAGGATCCTGCATAGTCCGGG-3' Primers for site-directed mutagenesis XLG2  -F: 5'-ATGTACCAGAAGAAGTGAAAGCTCCTGCTGATTTTCGGTTATC-3' XLG2  -R: 5'-GATAACCGAAAATCAGCAGGAGCTTTCACTTCTTCTGGTACAT-3' XLG2  -F: 5'-TCCTGCTGATTTTCGGTTAGCACCATCATCACCATTGTCTG-3' XLG2  -R: 5'-CAGACAATGGTGATGATGGTGCTAACCGAAAATCAGCAGGA-3' XLG2  -F: 5'-GCTGATTTTCGGTTATCACCAGCAGCACCATTGTCTGCATCAGCGAGA-3' XLG2  -R: 5'-TCTCGCTGATGCAGACAATGGTGCTGCTGGTGATAACCGAAAATCAGC-3' XLG2-3A  -F: 5'-AAAGTCCTGCTGATTTTCGGTTAGCACCAGCAGCACCATTGTCTGCATCAGCGAGA GA-3' XLG2-3A  -R: 5'-TCTCTCGCTGATGCAGACAATGGTGCTGCTGGTGCTAACCGAAAATCAGCAGGACT TT-3' XLG2-3D  -F: 5'-AAAGTCCTGCTGATTTTCGGTTAGACCCAGACGACCCATTGTCTGCATCAGCGAGA GA-3' XLG2-3D  -R: 5'-TCTCTCGCTGATGCAGACAATGGGTCGTCTGGGTCTAACCGAAAATCAGCAGGACT TT--3' XLG2  -F: 5'-ATGTACCAGAAGAAGTGAAAGATCCTGCTGATTTTCGGTTATC-3' XLG2  -F: 5'-GATAACCGAAAATCAGCAGGATCTTTCACTTCTTCTGGTACAT-3' 
The Arabidopsis circadian clock orchestrates gene regulation across the day/night cycle . Although a multiple feedback loop circuit has been shown to generate the 24-hr rhythm , it remains unclear how robust the clock is in individual cells , or how clock timing is coordinated across the plant . Here we examine clock activity at the single cell level across Arabidopsis seedlings over several days under constant environmental conditions . Our data reveal robust single cell oscillations , albeit desynchronised . In particular , we observe two waves of clock activity; one going down , and one up the root . We also find evidence of cell-to-cell coupling of the clock , especially in the root tip . A simple model shows that cell-to-cell coupling and our measured period differences between cells can generate the observed waves . Our results reveal the spatial structure of the plant clock and suggest that unlike the centralised mammalian clock , the Arabidopsis clock has multiple coordination points . The circadian clock controls gene expression throughout the day and night in most organisms , from single cell photosynthetic bacteria to mammals  . The Arabidopsis circadian clock generates a 24 hr rhythm in multiple key processes , including stomata opening , photosynthesis , and hypocotyl elongation  . A hierarchical structure for the plant clock has recently been proposed , similar to that for the mammalian clock , where the shoot apex clock drives the rhythms in the root  . For example , experiments using a luciferase reporter for clock activity have shown waves of clock gene expression in leaves  , as well as striped expression patterns in roots  . Beyond the coordination of plant rhythms , how robust the circadian clock is in individual cells across the plant is also unclear . Simulations of this network display stable oscillations  , although experimental measurements of clock rhythms under constant conditions often display damped rhythms   . The damping is characterised by the reduction in amplitude of the oscillations through time . This damping at the whole plant level could be due to the clock circuit in all individual cells damping  , or to cells desynchronising due to different intrinsic periods or phases   , or cells desynchronising due to stochasticity in clock activity  . Previous studies have attempted to measure the clock in Arabidopsis at single-cell resolution; however , these have focused on specific parts of the plant for short time series  . Here , using a reporter for the core clock gene CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1   , we examine the dynamics of the Arabidopsis clock across the whole plant at the single cell level over several days . Our results reveal that damping of rhythms at the whole plant level is mainly due to desynchronisation of oscillating single cells with different periods , and not due to noise in gene expression due to low molecule numbers or damping of individual oscillations . We observe two waves of clock gene expression , one up and one down the root . These waves , combined with more variable clock periods at each position in the root , cause the most desynchronisation . From our single cell data , we are able to estimate the coupling strength between cells , and find evidence of coupling , especially strong in the root tip . A simple model suggests that our observed period differences , plus cell-to-cell coupling , can generate the observed waves in clock gene expression . Thus , our data reveals both the structure and robustness of the plant circadian clock system . To analyse the dynamics of the plant clock at the single cell level , we constructed reporter lines that allowed us to quantitatively measure the nuclear level of the core clock protein CCA1  . These reporter lines contained a CCA1-YFP protein fusion construct driven by the CCA1 promoter in a cca1-11 mutant background . By screening the clock phenotypes of multiple reporter lines we ensured that our reporter construct was functional and rescued the period phenotype of the cca1-11 mutant  . In order to examine the intrinsic behaviour of the clock we first entrained the seedlings to 12:12 hr light/dark cycles before examining the clock under constant conditions ( constant blue light  and temperature  ) . We first examined the average CCA1-YFP nuclear fluorescence signal from regions of the hypocotyl , cotyledon and roots  . We observed a robust oscillation in the cotyledon  and hypocotyl  , although with slight damping to the amplitude . In the top part of the root we observed strong damping of the circadian rhythm  , although the oscillations recovered somewhat in the root tip  . We also observed similar behaviour in our CCA1-long reporter line  , showing that our results remain true across a range of clock activity . To determine the underlying cause of the damping in different tissues , we examined the clock rhythm in hundreds of cells from each seedling analysed  . Oscillations could be observed in all tissues , with most cells displaying circadian rhythms  . Analysis of single cell oscillation amplitudes during the course of the movie revealed stable oscillations , with only a slight reduction in median oscillation amplitude in the root  . Neither the strong damping at the tissue level in the root  , nor the damping observed at the plant level  , can be explained by individual cells losing rhythmicity  . We then examined the synchrony between cells and robustness of these rhythms in more detail . The hypocotyl and cotyledon were the most synchronised , with the amplitude of the mean trace nearly equalling the median amplitude of the individual cell time-series  . However , the root displayed significant desynchronisation , with the amplitude of the mean trace lower than the median amplitude of the individual cell traces  , with higher variability in period within and between single cell lineages  . We next asked whether the damping of amplitude in the mean rhythm is caused by noise in gene expression due to low clock molecule numbers , as proposed by previous stochastic modelling  . We compared the level of synchrony and period variability from simulations of this model to our experimentally measured single cell rhythms . The single cell rhythms that we detect in the hypocotyl and cotyledon have a lower period variability  than a system size of 100 and in fact behave closer to a system size of 1000  . The level of desynchronisation observed in the root and root tip , however , behave more like a simulated system size of 100  . Similar CCA1-YFP expression levels are observed across the plant  , so it is unlikely that this lack of robustness is due solely to a change of total molecule number for the clock system in different parts of the plant . In fact the amplitude and expression levels of the single cell oscillations in the root tip are high compared to other sections across the plant  . If the strong damping in the root is not a result of noise due to low clock molecule numbers , or individual cells losing rhythmicity , what is the cause ? The measured variable and desynchronous rhythms in the root suggest that the clock could be behaving differently in different parts of the root . To test this possibility , we plotted the period of the individual cell oscillations across the plant  . We observed surprising spatial structure to the clock in the root . The upper sections of the root displayed longer periods than the rest of the plant , as reported previously for the whole root  . However , we observed very fast rhythms in the root tip  , which is also the section with very high expression rhythms  . A repeat plant showed similar results  , as did the CCA1-long reporter line  . Each radial section of the plant along the longitudinal axis can be made up of multiple cell types . To further understand the spatial structure of the clock , we examined montages of clock gene expression  and timing of peaks of expression  across the plant . Examination of the clock phase between 48 and 72 hr reveals that the clock peaks earlier in the hypocotyl  than in the cotyledon   . From the top of the root the phase of the clock is shifted to later in the day as you go down the root   . However , from the root tip  the phase of the clock is shifted to later in the day as you go up  . This generates two waves in the montages of clock gene expression , one going up and one going down the root  . At each y position in the root , the phases are also more variable than in the rest of the plant , with a standard deviation of phases of ±5 . 0 hr in the root tip compared to ±1 . Thus , the damped mean rhythm of clock activity we observed in the root  is caused by the averaging of these two waves of gene expression that have a broad distribution of phases . We observed qualitatively similar waves in luciferase reporter lines for the clock genes PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATOR 9   , CCA1  and GIGANTEA   , suggesting that our results are a general property of the clock . The coherent waves of gene expression suggested that the plant clock signal could be coupled . To estimate this coupling , we calculated the order parameter  from our single cell data and estimated the coupling strength based on a technique developed for mammalian circadian cells  . We observed signs of coupling across the plant , with the strongest evidence for coupling in the root tip , where the order parameter actually increased with time  . Interestingly , this occurred where cell density was highest , as observed in cultured SCN cells  . To investigate the mechanism for the waves of clock gene expression in the root we developed a simple mathematical model where the cells are described by coupled oscillators with different periods , as informed by the data  . The periods of the clock in the model were faster in the shoot and root tip than the rest of the root , as measured experimentally . This simple model can generate waves of gene expression up and down the root that produce a bow wave in the space-time plot  , similar to that observed experimentally  . Our single cell measurements have revealed tissue specific differences in the phases and robustness of the clock in Arabidopsis . The observed robust rhythms in the hypocotyl that peak before the cotyledon and the top of the root , with a wave of clock gene expression down the root , fit with a proposed hierarchical structure for the plant clock , where the shoot apex clock drives the rhythms in the root  . However , our results suggest that the structure of the plant clock is more complicated , as this hierarchical model does not explain the observed short period oscillations in the root tip , or the wave of clock gene expression up from the root tip . Our results support a more decentralised model of clock coordination in plants  . Earlier studies of the Arabidopsis clock argue either that cellular oscillations are uncoupled  , or weakly , but detectably , coupled  . Coupling has also been detected in Lemna gibba fronds , as examination of a clock bioluminescence reporter with single cell resolution showed weak coupling between individual clock oscillators under constant conditions  . Our single cell approach is consistent with weak coupling across the whole plant but reveals regions with strong local coupling between cells , especially in the root tip , which is sufficient to drive an increase in synchrony with time . In the future , it will be interesting to examine whether the shoot apical meristem , which has a high cell density like the root tip and has been shown to be coupled when excised from the plant , has a similarly high coupling strength given its role in driving rhythms in the shoot  . Our modelling reveals that cell-cell coupling together with the observed period differences between tissues is sufficient to replicate the decentralised spatial structure of the clock that we observe experimentally . In the future it will be interesting to develop more mechanistic models of the plant circadian clock at the single cell level , as has been done at the bulk level previously  . One barrier to achieving this is that currently our estimations of clock periods from single cells are from the intact plant , and so will include the effects of cell-cell coupling . It will also be important to test future models by examining the clock experimentally under a range of environmental conditions and at different developmental stages . There is already evidence that the root clock may respond differently to light than the shoot  , and that the vasculature and epidermal clock regulate distinct physiological processes  . It has been recently shown that initiation of lateral roots triggers the resetting of the clock in the emerging lateral root  . In the case of lateral roots , auxin is proposed to be involved in resetting the clock  . Waves of auxin also occur in the root  , and it will be interesting to examine if the circadian clock wave is linked to these auxin dynamics . An important next step will be to investigate what the coupling signal is for the plant circadian clock  . The CCA1::CCA1-YFP was constructed as follows: The coding region of CCA1 was amplified from Arabidopsis  genomic DNA using the primer pair CCA1_CDS_Fwd  and CCA1_CDS_Rev  . The CCA1 promoter region was amplified from Arabidopsis  genomic DNA using the primer pair CCA1_prom_Fwd  and the CCA1_prom_Rev  . Next , the 35S promoter was replaced by the CCA1 promoter fragment via EcoRI  and BamHI  sites , resulting in CCA1::CCA1-YFP . The CCA1::CCA1-YFP construct was transformed in cca1-11  mutant background  . Period variability within and between cells was calculated as described previously  . Since some of the sections imaged overlap  , in order to not count cells multiple times , some of the cells were removed . In the repeat WT experiment , the root tip section imaged encompasses a longer section of the root  . Hence , in order to make the analysis comparable to WT  , we split the root tip section for further analysis . We considered the root tip cells of the repeat to be only those less than 0 . 18 mm from the actual tip , while the rest of them were classed as ‘Root up from tip’  . In Figure 1a , we simulate an existing deterministic model of the clock  . In Figure 2 , we simulated a stochastic model of an existing circadian clock model  . Here , we have taken the same circadian clock model and simulated it for various values of Ω . First , one cell was selected as a centroid of the synchronisation analysis . From CCA1-YFP expression signal , phase of the j-th neighbouring cell  was computed as  θj  =2π k+t-tktk+1-tk×2π . Figure 3—figure supplement 2 shows the results of synchronisation analysis for root tip  , lower root  , upper root  , lower hypocotyl  , upper hypocotyl  , and cotyledon  . Positive slopes are mostly found in the root tip  , with a high correlation to the cell density . Stronger coupling was estimated for densely populated areas , implying that the cell-to-cell interactions are strengthened when cells are closely located to each other . Positive slopes are again found in the root tip , implying that the level of synchrony increases in time due to cell-cell interactions . As shown in Figure 3—figure supplement 4 , the slope of the order parameter for the CCA1-long line experiment is again well correlated with the cell density , where highly dense cells are located in the root tip . We constructed a model where we describe the dynamics of the CCA1::CCA1-YFP in each cell by a simple Kuramoto phase oscillator . For every cell at a position  in the plant  the phase of the oscillator θ  changes in time  so that dθ  dt=ω  +K∑⟨p . cells in positions  where p=m-1 , . The bioluminescence of each cell is then taken to be B   =cos⁡ ( θ   ) +1 . Cells in the plant conform to a template that is taken to be a symmetric shape , and resembles the shape of a seedling . The total bioluminescence across each vertical section  of the plant is taken to be the sum of the bioluminescence of all cells along that section that is , Btotnt=∑m=1NwBm , n  where the width of the plant counts Nw number of cells . In the model , we assume that the cells in the three sections  have different intrinsic periods , with the cells in the cotyledon and hypocotyl having period of 24 hr , those in the root having the period of around 25 . 55 hr and the ones in the root tip a period of 22 . These overall match the qualitative period differences seen across the different plant sections . 
In social settings , speech waveforms from nearby speakers mix together in our ear canals . We found that multi-talker speech intelligibility thresholds varied widely in normal hearing adults , but could be predicted from neural phase-locking to frequency modulation  cues measured with ear canal EEG recordings . Combining neural temporal fine structure processing , pupil-indexed listening effort , and behavioral FM thresholds accounted for 78% of the variability in multi-talker speech intelligibility . The disordered bottom-up and top-down markers of poor multi-talker speech perception identified here could inform the design of next-generation clinical tests for hidden hearing disorders . Slow fluctuations in the sound pressure envelope are sufficient for accurate speech perception in quiet backgrounds  . Envelope cues are less useful when speech is embedded in fluctuant backgrounds comprised of multiple talkers , environmental noise or reverberation  . Under these conditions , segregating a target speech stream from background noise requires accurate encoding of low-frequency spectral and binaural cues contained in the stimulus temporal fine structure   . Monaural sTFS cues convey acoustic signatures of target speaker identity based on the arrangement of peaks in the sound spectrum  , while binaural sTFS cues can support spatial separation of target and competing speakers via interaural phase differences  . With aging and hearing loss , monaural and binaural sTFS cues become less perceptually available , even when audibility thresholds for low-frequency signals that convey sTFS cues are normal  . A selective loss of cochlear afferent fibers would not likely affect audibility thresholds , but could adversely affect the ability of the auditory system to fully exploit suprathreshold monaural and binaural sTFS cues that are critical for multi-talker speech intelligibility  . These top-down assets can be leveraged to compensate for poorly resolved bottom-up sensory cues , suggesting that listeners with clinically normal hearing that struggle to process speech in noise might be identified by an over-reliance on top-down active listening mechanisms to de-noise a corrupted afferent speech input  . Here , we apply parallel psychophysical and neurophysiological tests of sTFS processing in combination with physiological measures of effortful listening to converge on a set of neural biomarkers that identify poor multi-talker speech intelligibility in adults with clinically normal hearing . Like the patients from the clinical database , the audiograms from these subjects were clinically normal , yet many reported difficulties with speech intelligibility , particularly in listening conditions with multiple overlapping speakers  . We directly measured speech-in-noise intelligibility with a digits comprehension task , which simulates the acoustic challenge of focused listening in multi-talker environments , while eliminating linguistic and contextual speech cues . Performance on the digits task decreased as a function of SNR  . Speech reception thresholds , defined as the 70 . 42 dB  . We found that speech intelligibility thresholds were significantly correlated with the subjects’ self-reported difficulties in multi-speaker conditions , suggesting that the digits comprehension task captures aspects of their real-world communication difficulties  . We first determined whether simple adaptations of existing clinical tests could identify deficits in multi-talker speech intelligibility . We measured hearing thresholds at extended high frequencies , a marker for early noise damage  . ABR wave one amplitude and extended high frequency thresholds both showed substantial variability in subjects with clinically normal audiograms , but neither could account for performance on the competing digits task  . Poor processing of sTFS cues has long been associated with elevated speech recognition thresholds , especially in patients with hearing loss  . In a classic test of sTFS processing , subjects were asked to detect a slow , subtle FM imposed on a low-frequency carrier  . We tested our subjects with this psychophysical task , which uses an adaptive two-interval forced choice procedure to converge on the threshold for detecting FM of a 500 Hz tone  . FM detection thresholds varied widely between subjects  and were strongly correlated with performance on the competing digits task  . On the one hand , sensitivity to FM could reflect superior low-level encoding of sTFS cues that are critical for segregating a target speech stream from distractors . Alternatively , perceptual thresholds for FM could reflect a superior abstracted representation of stimulus features at any downstream stage of neural processing , and not the high fidelity representation of sTFS cues , per se . Taking this line of argument a step further , a correlation between competing talker thresholds and FM thresholds may not reflect the stimulus representation at all , but instead could reflect subjects’ general aptitude for utilizing cognitive resources such as attention and effort to perform a wide range of listening tasks  . To test the hypothesis that early neural processing of sTFS cues in the FM tone is associated with superior speech-in-noise processing , we developed a non-invasive physiological measure of neural sTFS phase-locking at early stages of auditory processing . Because pre-neural responses are nearly sinusoidal for low-frequency tones , but auditory nerve fiber discharges are partially half-wave-rectified , we could isolate the neural component by alternating the polarity of FM tones , averaging the responses , and analyzing the phase-locking at twice the carrier frequency  . We observed robust phase-locked following response to the FM stimulus  . We used a heterodyne method to extract the FMFR for FM depths up to 10 Hz , or ~0 . To factor out variability in phase-locking due to head size and overall electrode SNR we calculated the amplitude of the carrier frequency following response to a tone with 0 Hz FM and then expressed the FMFR magnitude as a fraction of this value  . With this approach , subjects with a wide dynamic range for encoding FM depth have more robust FM encoding and therefore smaller min-max/halfmax ratio values . We found that robust low-level encoding of FM cues was highly predictive of an individual’s performance on the FM psychophysical detection task  , suggesting that the FMFR can provide an objective neurophysiological measure of an individual’s ability to encode sTFS cues . Importantly , the FMFR was also significantly correlated with thresholds on the competing digits task  . Whereas phase-locking to the sTFS cues in the FM tone was related to psychophysical performance and speech recognition thresholds , the cortical evoked potentials recorded simultaneously from the same stimuli were not correlated with either measure  . These data suggest that the strong association between psychophysical tests for FM detection and speech-in-noise intelligibility can be attributed , at least in part , to encoding of FM cues at early stages of auditory processing . We reasoned that the correlation between low-level FM encoding and speech intelligibility might just reflect a correlation between any measure of fast temporal processing fidelity and speech intelligibility . This could be addressed by measuring temporal processing fidelity on an unrelated stimulus and noting whether it had any correlation with speech-in-noise thresholds . Interaural timing cues can improve speech processing in noise , but would not be expected to have any association with the competing digits task used here , where the identical waveform was presented to both ears . To test whether poor encoding of binaural sTFS cues would also predict poor performance in the competing digits task , we performed parallel psychophysical and electrophysiological measurements of sensitivity to interaural phase differences  . In this task , the phase of a 520 Hz tone presented to each ear was shifted by a variable amount  , creating the percept of a tone that moved from the center to the sides of the head . To test psychophysical thresholds for binaural sTFS cues , subjects indicated the presence of an interaural phase difference  in one of two tokens presented in a 2-interval forced choice task . IPD thresholds were variable , ranging between 5 and 25 degrees  . 8 Hz , inducing a following response to the IPD  as well as a phase-insensitive envelope following response at the 41 Hz amplitude modulation rate  . As expected , the amplitude of the IPDFR at 6 . Like the FMFR above , we noted a strong association between an individual’s psychophysical threshold for IPD and the growth of the electrophysiological IPDFR  . As a result , the correlation between psychophysical threshold and IPDFR is negative  whereas the correlation between FM threshold and the FMFR amplitude is positive  . This can be attributed to inherent differences in the FMFR  versus the IPDFR  . More to the point , neither the IPD psychophysical threshold , nor the IPDFR amplitude had statistically significant correlations with the digits in noise threshold , confirming that task performance was specifically linked to encoding of task-relevant FM cues and not a general sensitivity to unrelated sTFS cues  . In this sense , encoding of bottom-up sTFS cues can provide critical building blocks for downstream speech processing but ultimately provide an incomplete basis for predicting performance on cognitively demanding listening tasks . To capture variability in speech processing that was not accounted for by sTFS cues , we measured task-evoked changes in pupil diameter , while subjects performed the digits comprehension task . Under isoluminous conditions , pupil diameter can provide an objective index of the sensory and cognitive challenge of processing a target speech stream in the presence of distracting speakers  . We confirmed here that the fractional change in pupil diameter was linearly related to the SNR of the target speaker  in 16 subjects that provided measurable pupil signals  . We confirmed that individuals with steeper pupil recruitment functions had more difficulty in the multi-talker speech task , leading to a significant correlation between min-max/halfmax pupil change and speech intelligibility threshold  . Our overall motivation was to develop objective physiological markers that might explain complaints of poor speech communication in individuals with clinically normal hearing . Here , we examined whether poor speech-in-noise intelligibility was associated with poor auditory nerve integrity  , poor encoding of monaural sTFS cues  , generally poor fast temporal processing  and increased utilization of cognitive resources related to effortful listening  . In practice , only FMFR and pupil showed a significant independent correlation with speech intelligibility threshold  . With this model , listening effort indexed by pupil diameter explained 24% of the variance in the digit comprehension task . Adding in monaural sTFS processing measured using the FMFR increased the adjusted R2 , explaining 49% of the overall variance . Among the neural measures studied here , the best linear model for speech intelligibility included a measure of bottom-up monaural fine structure processing and a measure of top-down listening effort . The combination of FMFR and pupil diameter provided the best model in all order configurations  . Finally , even though the behavioral FM detection thresholds and the FMFR were correlated  , constructing a model with the psychophysical threshold along with FMFR and pupil diameter increased the variance explained to 78%  , suggesting that the behavioral FM detection task reflects additional aspects of auditory processing that is not captured by the combination of peripheral sTFS encoding and non-sensory measures of listening effort . Each cochlear filter contains two types of information that are encoded and reconfigured by neurons within the auditory nerve and central auditory pathway: sTFS and stimulus temporal envelope . STFS cues consist of rapid oscillations near the center of each cochlear filter that are encoded by phase-locked auditory nerve action potentials  . The ability to detect slow rates of FM  at low carrier frequencies  has long been associated with sTFS processing  . Under these stimulus conditions , changes in FM are hypothesized to be conveyed by spike timing information within a cochlear filter  . The strong correlation between psychophysical thresholds for detecting pure tone FM and multi-talker speech recognition thresholds is striking  and has now been documented by several independent groups using a variety of speech-on-speech masking paradigms , but not with non-speech maskers  . The exact mechanism of FM coding by the auditory pathway is not entirely clear , with some studies suggesting that FM cues are converted to amplitude modulation cues at early stages of auditory processing , and hence that the perception of FM relies more on neural envelope cues  , while other studies emphasize neural phase-locking to sTFS cues  . Here , we characterized processing of FM tones using a combination of classic psychophysical tests and a newly developed ear canal EEG FMFR . Because we looked at changes in phase-locking to the carrier , and not the actual rate of FM , we were able to explicitly emphasize neural coding of these timing cues in the early auditory system , while minimizing contributions from the recovered envelope , which would be reflected as the 2 Hz FM rate . The FMFR was strongly correlated with behavioral FM detection , suggesting that this response reflects aspects of the behavioral FM detection task  , and was also correlated with performance on the digits task  , suggesting that the representation of these fine stimulus timing cues contributes to multi-talker speech intelligibility . Subjects with the lowest FM detection thresholds exhibited a small increase in FMFR amplitudes across a broad range of shallow excursion depths before suddenly increasing at FM excursion depths that exceeded the limits of a single cochlear filter , perhaps indicating the transition from a timing to a place code  . As a result , top psychophysical performers had a shallow transfer function for FM excursion depth but a steep transfer function for IPDFR , producing a positive correlation between FMFR and FM detection threshold  and a negative correlation between the IPDFR and IPD detection threshold  . As described above , the FMFR is calculated as the phase coherence to the FM carrier , whereas the IPDFR is calculated as the entrainment to the rate of IPD alternation . We found considerable individual variability in both of these measures in subjects with clinically normal hearing , although neither measure had a statistically meaningful relationship with multi-talker speech recognition thresholds  . Speech perception does not arise directly from the auditory nerve , but rather reflects the patterning of neural activity in the central auditory pathway . To this point , the psychophysical FM detection threshold was more highly correlated with speech recognition than the neural measure of low-level FM encoding , suggesting that the behavioral task captured additional aspects of FM detection not present in the FMFR . 5 dB SNR on the same digits task used here without any improvement in FM detection threshold , or any other marker of bottom-up processing , again pointing towards the critical involvement of top-down active listening mechanisms in multi-talker speech perception  . Here , we present a simple battery of behavioral and physiological tests that can account for nearly 80% of the variability in a test of multi-talker speech intelligibility that does not involve linguistic cues . 68 s between the onset of each digit . Once familiarized , the task required subjects to attend to the target speech steam in the presence of two additional speakers  that produced randomly selected digits with matched target-onset times . The target speaker was presented at 65 dB SPL . 7% correct point on the response curve was defined as the speech reception threshold . Subjects with thresholds better than 0 dB SNR  were marked as 0 . Subjects were introduced to the percept corresponding to frequency modulation  through a virtual slider on the tablet computer that they manipulated to increase and decrease the FM excursion depth of a 500 Hz tone . Frequency modulation was applied at a rate of 2 Hz to one of the two tones  and the other tone had no FM . A quasi-sinusoidal amplitude modulation  was applied to both tones to reduce cochlear excitation pattern cues  . A two-down one-up procedure converged on the FM excursion depth that subjects could identify with 70 . FM excursion depth was initially set to 75 Hz and was then changed by a factor of 1 . The median threshold value obtained across individual runs defined the participant’s FM detection threshold . But for one of the two tokens , a phase shift was applied to the tone in each ear in opposing polarity , 0 . 5 s after tone onset . The criteria for determining the number of runs and the threshold matched the FM detection task above . Stimuli had 2 . The FMFR was measured in response to sinusoidal FM stimuli with a carrier frequency of 500 Hz , a modulation rate of 2 Hz and at modulation depths of 0  , 2 , 5 , 8 , and 10 Hz . Cochlear neural responses to low frequency tones , including the carrier of our FM stimuli , are phase-sensitive in such a way that the summed response to alternating polarities is effectively rectified , and thus periodic at twice the stimulus frequency  . Therefore , we quantified the modulation of the EEG signals with respect to twice the FM carrier frequency , or 1000 Hz . FMFR amplitudes were calculated using a heterodyne method  . A bootstrapping technique was used to reduce the variability of the calculated FMFR amplitude . The phase signals output from the heterodyne were averaged and used to compute the final FMFR amplitude . Interaural phase difference following responses were collected to a 520 Hz tone carrier whose amplitude was modulated at 40 . 8 Hz . The phase of the carrier was modulated to shift in and out of phase at a rate of 6 . 8 Hz . 8 Hz for the IPD response , and at 40 . 8 Hz for the AM response . Task-related changes in pupil diameter were collected with a head mounted pupillometry system at a 30 Hz sampling rate  , while the subjects used a tablet computer to complete the digits comprehension task  . The pupil analysis described here comes from the 2 s digit presentation period . 
Despite its clarity , imperfections in the optics of the eye blur microscopic retinal capillaries , and single blood cells flowing within . Measured flow ranged four orders of magnitude  across the full spectrum of retinal vessel diameters  , without requiring surgery or contrast dye . Serving this need , the retinal circulation supplies the bulk of the inner retina with a stratified network of vessels , while the choroidal circulation supplies the photoreceptors . However , functional characterization of perfusion has been more difficult , especially in the smaller vessels where imaging single blood cells without using invasive foreign dyes requires exquisite spatiotemporal resolution and contrast . Retinal capillaries with single file flow are small , with lumen diameter ranging from 3 to 7 µm  . Imaging techniques that can visualize the larger vessels  are still faced with the problem that single blood cells  are densely packed and exhibit non-parabolic velocity profiles , making an accurate assessment of mean velocity and flow difficult without empirical knowledge of the profile shape . Detecting subtle functional changes to flow becomes exceedingly difficult as the ratio of vessel lumen to RBC diameter decreases , because of the particulate nature of blood flow . Due to the above challenges , a device that can noninvasively study single-cell blood flow dynamics in the full range of retinal vessel sizes in the living body has not yet been demonstrated , in either the mouse or human . Studies in larger retinal vessels using Doppler strategies have provided one solution to report bulk velocity . These techniques , like bidirectional laser Doppler velocimetry , Fourier domain Doppler optical coherence tomography and others , give objective and label free measurements of blood velocity in large and medium-sized retinal vessels in humans   . However , applying the Doppler approach to small vessels is challenging as there are far fewer blood cells at the capillary level , thereby reducing the Doppler signature . This limits the readout of vessels to a comparable size . Such techniques also suffer the consequence of contamination of adjacent vessel signal which may be of opposite direction or speed . Axial contributions from deeper vessels may also contaminate single vessel measurement as retinal vessels above and below the interrogation beam can introduce non-specific signals . Doppler OCT has mitigated this issue to some extent; however , signal-to-noise and lateral resolution still limit the signal readout of absolute velocity or flow to only the large retinal vessels in mice , and large and medium-sized vessels in humans . However , it does not quantitate blood flow or velocity . Conditions of hyper- and hypo-perfusion are not reported and thus early and subtle functional changes in blood flow may be overlooked and only later structural vessel occlusions visualized in disease . In recent years , adaptive optics  ophthalmoscopy has enabled reporting of single blood cell speed in capillaries in humans  and mice  , and medium-sized vessels in humans  . While the above studies employing adaptive optics have enabled noninvasive measurement of single-cell velocity , measurement of blood flow in the full range of vessel sizes of the mammalian retinal circulation is yet to be achieved . This has partly been a problem of scale as automation is needed to perform quantitative measurements in larger vessels containing hundreds of thousands of blood cells flowing per second . In this study , we use the living mouse to benchmark the automation of blood velocity data . The mouse is the most widely used laboratory animal , yet there is a paucity of studies providing measures of retinal blood flow in the same . This gap need be addressed as the mouse has been and continues to be used to model human retinal physiology , including blood flow . The challenge of imaging mouse retinal blood flow is attributed to the difficulties of imaging its rather small eye , with even the largest vessels being only a quarter the size of the largest human retinal vessel . Furthermore , as we detail later in this paper , there is wide discrepancy in the normative values of retinal blood flow reported in the few mouse studies that exist . In this study , we innovate imaging strategies as well as deploy custom algorithms to image single blood cells noninvasively in the smallest to largest vessels of the mouse retinal circulation  ; without requiring exogenous contrast agents to facilitate measurement . Measured flow rate per vessel ranged four orders of magnitude  across the complete retinal vascular tree , from the largest vessel near the optic disk to the smallest capillary . In addition to aiding basic science investigation , the noninvasive approach provides a comprehensive array of bioreporters of microvascular perfusion , including: cell velocity , lumen diameter , flow rate , single-cell flux in capillaries , pulsatile and cross-sectional flow , and indices of intrinsic temporal and spatial modulations in flow . To our knowledge , we provide the first measurement of cross-sectional blood-cell velocity profile and the first absolute measurement of pulsatile blood-cell velocity in the mouse retina . We also provide the first measures of mean  velocity and flow rate in medium and small vessels  of the mouse retina . We found that there is a heterogenous distribution of velocity , flux and other hemodynamic parameters in vessels of varying generation/size , showing that diameter alone is a poor predictor of microcirculation hemodynamics in the central nervous system . Sequentially capturing 1D line-scans across the same vessel produced a space-time image of moving blood cells with a line resolution of 15 kHz  . Based on the shallowest angle of beam intersection , the maximum velocity that could be measured using this technique was 1275 mm s–1 , which far exceeds the possible velocities of blood cells in the retinal circulation . Given the liberal range of angles we searched , the velocity bandwidth of the measurements ranged from 0 . The angle corresponding to the maximum Radon standard deviation gave the velocity of the cells in the ROI ( Figure 3D , Equation . From our data , we observed velocities of up to ~100 mm s–1 which represents the upper limit of blood velocity in the eye corresponding to center-line flow of the largest vessels . Without motion correction , the lowest velocity observed was 0 mm s–1  . Quality of data was often improved when static features such as the vessel wall and other retinal tissue were removed through a running background subtraction of 10 ms  , which improved signal detection of blood cells . The algorithm performed favourably to report only the velocities inside the vessel lumen . While analysis was enabled on the entire image  , only velocities inside the vessel met the SNR calculation  . By way of SNR calculation , Figure 3E shows strong rejection of data outside of the vessel , whereas data inside the vessel provides a strong velocity signature . Similarly , the velocity color map in Figure 4 shows a clear boundary condition where blood cell velocity is only found inside the boundaries of the vessel lumen . The influence of cardiac pulsatility is seen across the vessel lumen , with an average periodicity of the cardiac cycles of 218 beats per minute   . Pulsatile velocity was observed in all 33 arterioles and venules imaged . To rule out the possibility that heart-rate-induced eye motion contaminated the measures , we tracked the eye motion , in Figure 5 , from the same vessel shown in Figure 2 and Figure 4 . The velocity of the largest eye motion was at least 23 times smaller than the velocity of blood cells  . Moreover , the frequency and phase eye motion did not match the pulsatile velocity modulations  . We confirmed measurements of heart rate with external paw-clip pulse oximetry  in a subset of vessels . The retinal-vessel measurement of heart rate and an alternate recording performed with the paw-clip pulse oximeter showed strong correlation with correspondence slope of 0 . While pulsatile flow was observed in retinal blood vessels of all sizes including arterioles , capillaries and venules , there were waveform differences in these branches . Generally , arterioles had a steep leading edge of the velocity waveform whereas venules had a dampened waveform , due to vascular compliance and network hemodynamics upstream and downstream the imaged vessel . These control points  served as a phase reference to produce an ‘average cardiac cycle’ for each vessel , corresponding to 10 s of data . Using vascular indices described by Equations 4–6 above , we found that in an arteriole and venule of the same vessel generation , the arteriole had a much higher pulsatility index  consistent with physiology of the cardiovascular system  . Such functional difference between arterioles and venules can also be visually observed in Figure 9C , where vessels A1 and V1 have similar mean velocity , but markedly different PIs . Unlike models of Newtonian/laminar flow , the RBC velocity profile was poorly fit with a parabolic model that is bounded by zero velocity at the lumen surface  . While often modeled in this way for bulk flow , single RBCs themselves are not expected to be stationary at the vessel wall . To quantify the true RBC velocity profile , we fit the data using Equation 7  . An assumption of parabolic flow  leads to a 39% underestimation in mean flow rate in the vessel shown . While we did not measure plasma velocity , we did model plasma flow between the RBC column and vascular inner wall by assuming linear decline of plasma velocity and enforcing the no-slip boundary condition that may apply to plasma as it contacts the glycocalyx  . Based on velocity measures above , we observed a gap of 1 . Strongest modulations were observed in the center-line with diminishing modulations closer to the boundary of the vessel . The velocity at center showed the most amount of modulation  . The velocity modulation at the edge had lower amplitude  . Combined , the AOSLO measure of blood velocity provides fewer assumptions and populates more free parameters to more accurately model flow in the lumen as a function of space and time . Vessel lumen and vessel walls were clearly visualized using label-free split-detection  imaging  . The motion contrast images , produced by computing pixel grayscale variance over time , revealed regions of moving blood cells within the vessel  . The split detection intensity image of the vessel shown revealed a lumen width of 24 . Across all 123 vessels imaged , measured lumen diameter ranged from 3 . 8 µm , representing the entire range of vessel sizes in the mouse retina . For the 33 arterioles and venules , lumen diameter ranged 8 . By combining velocity and vessel diameter data above , flow rate was computed . In primary vessels emerging from the optic disk , within a ~170–300 µm radius from the center of the optic disk , the mean flow rate ranged from 0 . 52  across n = 11 vessels ) , and 0 . 57  across n = 7 vessels ) . Assuming 3–7 primary arterioles and venules per mouse retina , we estimated the range for total blood flow to the normal mouse retina to lie between 1 . Several hemodynamic biomarkers were observed to change with vessel generation . Measured instantaneous velocity and flow rates as a function of time show distinct characteristics of these vessels  . The mean flow rate decreased with increasing vessel order . This shows vascular signatures that would be missed by studying only mean velocity or flow , and without temporally gating the measurement with the cardiac cycle . In a different comparison , A1 and A2 have very similar lumen diameters , in apparent contradiction to that predicted by Murray’s Law for diameters of parent-daughter vessels . However , a closer inspection shows that flow conservation is not violated: A2 has a lower mean velocity and therefore lower mean flow , necessitated by the two small vessels branching out between A1 and A2 . In summary , a functional map across five vessels generations in the same mouse is shown , showing temporal dynamics of microvascular blood flow . At a branch point  , sum of the measured mean flow rates in the two daughter vessels was found to be 0 . 098 µL min–1 , while the measured mean flow rate in the parent vessel was 0 . Like the measures of total blood flow in the retina in venular-arterial system , the <8 . The error may be due to sequential measurements in these vessels , imaged seconds to minutes apart . Measured mean flow rate in the complete range of vessel sizes in the retina is shown in Figure 10B  . A large range of mean velocities  and mean flow rates were measured  across the smallest to largest retinal vessels in the mouse retina , thus giving a functional map of the complete vascular network of an intact organ in its native environment . Importantly , mean velocity was observed to be heterogenous across vessel diameters  . This shows that diameter alone cannot precisely predict the velocity and related hemodynamic parameters of a vessel , in the entire retinal vascular tree . The calculation of flow requires including the square of the measured diameter  . Murray’s theoretical model for blood vessels predicts a cubic relationship between flow rate and diameter  . In close agreement , mean flow rate was observed to have a near cubic relation with lumen diameter for medium and large mouse retinal vessels  . Wide heterogeneity was observed in velocity  and flow rate  in capillaries , which have single file flow , supplementing our observation of heterogenous flux across capillary lumen diameters   . Thus in capillaries , which have single-file-flow , measurement of velocity and flow alone gives an incomplete picture of nutrient delivery; cell flux gives a more accurate representation of the same . Seminal work studying blood flow in the human retina using adaptive optics space-time images  used manual determination of cell velocity , which could take hours to days of analysis time due to the problem of scale  . In this study , we report single-cell velocity and flow rate in the smallest to largest vessels in the living mouse retina . For the first time , a functional map of the complete arteriolar tree and venular return of the mouse retina was characterized , with absolute flow measurements performed across all vessel generations and sizes . Pulsatile flow was measured across all retinal vessel sizes , from capillaries to arterioles and venules . This counters the conventional wisdom that capillaries lack pulsatile flow . Despite this , there is a paucity of retinal blood flow studies in the mouse , as we detail in Table 1 . Toward this end , we have shown pilot data of the same technique applied to humans with automated velocity measurements performed in retinal vessels of intermediate size  . The small size and dense sampling of the analysis ROIs ensured single-cell measurement of blood velocity , and its subtle modulations due to cardiac pressure wave and cross-sectional flow profile . The focal plane bisected the vessel at its widest point . Why measure blood flow at a single-cell level ? Measuring flow in vessels whose size is of the order of the size of a red blood cell necessitates measuring cellular scale or particulate flow . 0 µm in humans  , and retinal vessel lumen sizes vary from ~3–46 µm in mice  and ~4–200 µm in humans . In vessels this small , the flow dynamics deviate from simple Newtonian or Poiseuille flow . Our direct cell-by-cell measurement of particulate blood flow opens new possibilities to study flow dynamics in the full range of retinal vessels sizes , enabling detailed study of laminar flow in the larger vessels and the complex nature of non-Newtonian and single blood cell rheology at the level of small capillaries . At this level , the vessels lumen is often the size , if not smaller than the undeformed red blood cell  . In addition to the bio-rheological shear that is observed at this level , measurement of blood flow in vessels of only slightly larger diameter also necessitates consideration of the biphasic nature of blood flow composed of cell and plasma flow  . A well-known aspect of such consideration is the aggregation of blood cells in the central portion of the vessel lumen , with a thin cell-free plasma layer next to the vessel walls  , first reported by Poiseuille in 1835 . 7 µm  , depending on blood velocity and not taking into account the 0 . In larger vessels of the microcirculation , the layer can be between 0 . 4 µm in 10–40 µm vessels , depending on hematocrit  . The existence of the cell-free layer leads to a non-zero velocity of blood cells closest to the vessel wall , with the plasma velocity presumably sharply decreasing to zero at the vessel wall to satisfy the no-slip boundary condition of fluid flow . One consequence of these effects is a blunted cell velocity profile , considerably deviated from the prediction of a parabolic profile from Poiseuille flow . To put the above in the context of our measurements because our measurements are focal and represent single-cell velocity across the vessel cross-section , fewer assumptions are needed to accurately model flow . This is an important distinction of measures of whole blood flow  vs blood cell velocity which is particulate in nature . As shown in Figure 6B , an error of –39% would occur if mean flow was incorrectly calculated by measuring only centerline velocity and assuming parabolic flow . Direct measurement of flow profiles in vessels only a few times wider than an RBC also opens the possibility of measuring shear rate , which is proportional to the ratio of mean velocity and diameter , and wall shear-stress  which is proportional to the slope of the fluid velocity profile at the vessel wall  . WSS is an indicator of vessel wall health and vascular remodeling/angiogenesis . We measured particulate flow in the retinal vascular tree in two modalities . In vessels with >7 µm diameter , we measured velocity and flow with oblique scanning . In vessels with single file flow  , we measured flux , velocity and flow , with orthogonal scanning  . Mouse retinal vessels are small- the inner diameter of even the largest of them is only about a quarter of that of the largest human retinal vessels . To our knowledge , blood-cell velocity profiles have never been measured in the mouse retina , in any vessel size , because of limitations of imaging resolution . Investigators have used adaptive optics to report velocity profile as a function of cardiac phase in vessels as small as a 72 µm artery in the human retina  . We report the first measurement of velocity profile as a function of cardiac phase in a mammalian retinal vessel as small as 25 µm . This is important since such functional changes become harder to detect as the ratio of vessel lumen to RBC diameter decreases . Furthermore , while the definition of a profile becomes less clear as the vessel diameter approaches that of blood cells , we measured decreased velocity at the edge compared to the vessel center in a vessel as small as 10 . Beyond spatial dynamics  , we measured temporal dynamics in small vessels of the retinal microcirculation . Multiple investigators have measured pulsatile flow in the human retinal microcirculation using adaptive optics , including pulsatile leukocyte velocity in human capillaries  , pulsatile erythrocyte velocity in human capillaries  , and pulsatile erythrocyte velocity in medium-sized human arterioles/venules  . 6 µm mouse capillary  was the first measurement of pulsatile cell flow in a mouse retinal vessel . In the current study , we report pulsatile cell velocity in medium and large mouse retinal vessels for the first time , with much reduced pulsatility index measured in venules , thus connecting the dots and demonstrating direct measurement of pulsatile flow in the complete retinal vascular tree . The lack of observed pulsatile flow in venules  and capillaries could be explained by limitations of previous approaches that lacked sensitivity to subtle velocity fluctuations in small vessels . Measurement of pulsatility biomarkers using our approach enables early detection of functional changes in these tiny vessels in microvascular diseases . In the mouse , the total retinal blood flow  has been a popular biomarker for evaluating the healthy and diseased retina  . This particularly becomes a problem when early pathological changes in smaller vessels do not result in changes in bulk flow rate in larger parent vessels , due to either vessel anastomosis or individual changes cancelling out . For example , a disruption at the small capillary level can cause a redistribution of local blood flow . This can lead to a cascade of events where larger vessels that feed and drain these small capillaries begin to have abnormal perfusion and subsequently , structural changes . Stopped or reduced perfusion in large vessels can have a relatively quick  impact on smaller vessels and tissue in the watershed area of the affected vessel . Our approach addresses some of these challenges by using the same imaging instrument to get measures of absolute single–cell blood flow in the smallest to largest retinal vessels in the living retina . Imaging techniques with a temporal resolution of even a few hundred frames per second  are insufficient to track velocity in medium and large retinal vessels . We provide the first normative database of mean velocity and flow rate in vessels other than first generation vessels in the mouse . Investigation of both mean flow rate and spatio-temporal dynamics in multiple vessels generations  sets the stage for longitudinal study of the progression of ‘slow’ diseases like diabetes across the complete retinal vascular tree . The flow through a vessel varies as the square of the inner lumen diameter  , underlining the need for careful measurement of the vessel lumen diameter to get accurate values of flow rate . While investigating the mouse literature for normative values of diameter , velocity and flow in retinal vessels , we found , first , that there is a paucity of such studies . To the best of our knowledge , we have counted all of 15 journal papers which measure retinal blood velocity and/or flow in the living mouse eye  . As stated earlier , all these studies measure velocity/flow only in the primary  vessels emerging from the optic disk . There is disagreement across previous studies in the values of measured dimeter , velocity and flow of first-generation vessels in the mouse retina . In particular , about half of the studies , which use intravital microscopy , report vessels diameters that are ~2 times greater , mean velocities that are ~2 times greater and mean flow rates that are ~8 times greater than that of all other techniques , including our own  . Secondly , for mean velocities in primary vessels , intravital microscopy studies used fluorescent microspheres or labelled RBCs , with 10–30 measurements from sparse fluorescent streaks pooled to average out effects of pulsatile and cross-sectional profile variability . The sparse and too few measurements have the potential to under or overestimate the true mean velocity , by either being biased toward particular cardiac phases , or if the incompressible microspheres travel in preferred radial locations in the vessel lumen . Additionally , imaging techniques with insufficient axial resolution can misrepresent diameter , velocity , and flow due to contamination of signal from deeper vessels of the stratified retinal vascular layers . Our reported mean velocities in primary vessels were averaged from ~39 , 000 to 274 , 000 imaged cells per second . Our technique measures the component of blood velocity parallel to the en face imaging plane . Near the optic nerve head , vessels which are not parallel to the imaging plane can cause errors in flow measurement . First to nth generation vessels are largely in plane at these locations . For a diving vessel which forms angle γ with the focal plane , there will be an underestimation of velocity , by a factor of |1 – cos  | . For example , for γ = 5° , measured velocity will be underestimated by 0 . Because the architecture of retinal vessels is predominantly planar  , we believe that our technique is well suited to study the complete retinal network , with a potentially lower measurement error . A limitation of our study is the requirement to sequentially track flow in each vessel . While the maximum field of view of our system of 5° enables tracking flow in up to two first-generation vessels simultaneously , and up to five capillaries on the other end of the size spectrum , we tracked flow on a vessel by vessel basis in this study to maximize the pixel density and measurement SNR on each vessel . A remaining challenge of our study is the current inability to track velocity in all first-generation vessels around the optic disk , because of the requirement of an optimal  angle between the vessel and the 1D scanning beam . Future work will look at optically rotating the beam so that all vessels around the optic disk can be measured to give a more precise value of total blood flow . We refrained from using the theoretical Poiseuille flow relationships  to predict flow based on lumen diameter of the first-generation vessels in which velocity could not be measured . Our data shows that for the most populous vessels of the mammalian eye , which are tens of microns wide or less , diameter alone is not an accurate predictor of flow  . Finally , we have demonstrated that eye motion minimally impacts our blood velocity measurements in the anesthetized mouse . Only a few seconds of such line-scan data is needed from each vessel to get a reliable measurement of an array of hemodynamic biomarkers . This study has shown that we can noninvasively study an array of functional biomarkers in mouse retinal blood vessels of size 3–46 µm , without using exogenous fluorophores . These microscopic vessels impart a large fraction of the total resistance to blood flow in the body . The brain is optically inaccessible with high resolution , especially for studying flow in microscopic vessels . It is also worth mentioning important studies in the rat retina which have achieved measurement of blood flow in a large spectrum of vessel sizes/orders , using fluorescently labeled red blood cells  . Vascular diseases like diabetes , atherosclerosis and hypertension are known to impact the microscopic vessels of the body . Furthermore , this detailed resolution enabled sub-micrometer precision when measuring the lumen diameters of retinal vessels . In total , 123 vessels in 19 mice were studied . Of these , 18 were primary vessels emerging from optic disk  , 15 were vessels spanning generations of 2nd to 5th branch order in the retina and 90 were single file flow capillaries . A lumen diameter less than 7 µm was used to categorize a vessel as a capillary , as vessels with lumen diameter below the 6 . 7 µm undeformed size of a mouse RBC  are expected to have single-file flow and facilitate cell deformation that is characteristic of capillary exchange vessels . Using this criterion , lumen diameters of capillaries ranged from 3 . Of the vessels > 7 µm , 25 were arterioles and eight were venules . Their lumen diameters ranged from 8 . Taken together , the range of vessel diameters spanned 3 . 8 µm , comprising the smallest to largest vessels in the mouse retinal circulation . Capillaries studied belonged to one of three retinal vascular layers . In arterioles and venules , lumen diameter , pulsatile velocity and flow were measured using oblique angle scanning  . In capillaries , average cell velocity and average flow rate was measured using orthogonal scanning  , supplementing the lumen diameter and cell flux reported in single-file-flow capillaries in our previous publication  . For the mouse , we define ‘large’ vessels as first generation vessels near the optic disk , that is vessels that have not yet branched in the retinal plane  . We define ‘medium-sized’ vessels as vessels from second generation and higher , which do not contain single-file-flow  . Small vessels are defined as vessels which have single-file-flow , that is capillaries   . The average undeformed size of a mouse RBC  is used as a bio-inspired threshold to identify single-file-flow vessels from others . Conceptually , the above definitions also hold true for the human retina , though the largest human retinal vessels are about four times larger than the largest mouse retinal vessels , to accommodate perfusion for a much greater retinal area . By these definitions , seminal laser Doppler and Doppler OCT studies have measured mean velocity down to ‘medium-sized’ vessels in the human retina  . 9° field of view , depending on vessel size . The plane of focus was adjusted to axially bisect the widest portion of the vessel , thus ensuring maximum luminal width was investigated based on cylindrical shape of perfused vessels . Most retinal vessels are perpendicular to the imaging optical axis , making them suitable to study using our en face imaging system . The largest retinal vessels , however , dive into the optic disk . The average 2D image from the same video was used for analysis of vessel geometry w . Briefly , the slow galvometric scanner was stopped at a position such that only the fast one-dimensional  scan imaged the vessel at 15 kHz  . This 1D scan was placed oblique to the vessel of interest , to determine single-cell velocity in the smallest to largest arterioles and venules in the mouse retina . The mouse head was rotated such that the 1D line passed beyond edge to edge of the obliquely oriented vessel , and such that the angle of intersection between 1D scan and vessel axis was between 6 and 43°  . The 1D field of view was positioned to traverse the entire luminal diameter whereby least two-thirds of the imaging field covered the vessel  . A reference strip was manually selected based on vessel centration and lack of motion . This strategy is a high-pass temporal filter , where velocities slower than 0 . 1D scanning data was recorded for 1–10 s per vessel to capture multiple cardiac cycles . In our orientation convention; the more ‘vertical’ the streak , the faster the cell velocity . The quadrant of θ  gave the direction of flow to or away from the optic disk , enabling categorization of each vessel as arteriole or venule . A 1D scan rate of 15 kHz was used to have a high velocity measurement bandwidth , covering all biologically possible velocities in the largest to smallest vessels in the mammalian retina . The velocity bandwidth was therefore 0 . To automatically quantify single-cell velocity , the 1–10 s long space-time image of each vessel was divided into small overlapping regions of interest  . A single velocity was assigned to each ROI . For the 33 vessels analyzed with oblique scanning  , the field of view of their space-time images ranged from 1 . ROIs were advanced with 75% overlap to capture a continuous measurement of local velocity  . 6 µm perpendicular to the vessel lumen when factoring the oblique angle of beam intersection  . com/abyjoseph1991/single_cell_blood_flow c3b5f94  . The rotational increment for the Radon transform was chosen to sample a biological range of blood cell velocities with high precision . A linear velocity search space of 0 to 100 mm s–1 , with a velocity resolution of 0 . Velocities which deviated beyond one standard deviation of the mean velocity were ignored . While this percentage may appear low , it still represents thousands of independent measurements in a single vessel . As justified by the mathematical basis above , the visual representation matches subjective determination of blood flow locations in a vessel . The color indicates one of two metrics: SNR or velocity . When reporting velocity , color indicates jet colormap encoding velocity  . To report mean velocity and flow rate  , 1 s of space-time image data was analyzed and velocities from 499 to 25210 ROIs were reported . To report the average cardiac cycle and velocity profile as a function of cardiac phase for the arteriole in Figures 4 and 10 s of data was analyzed , and velocities from 123 , 761 ROIs reported . The binned velocities were plotted as a function of time  . The maximum , minimum and mean velocities of the average cardiac cycle  were used to compute vascular indices of pulsatility and resistivity according to the formulae:  Pulsatility index PI= vmax-vminvmean  Resistivity index RI= vmax-vminvmax The time positions of the maximum and two minimum velocities  were used to compute a custom metric of asymmetry in the profile of the average cardiac cycle:  Asymmetry index  = tmin2−tmaxtmax−tmin1 Measured velocities in a single vessel were reported as a function of position along the vessel lumen  by averaging , across time , all measures performed at a specific radial location . 77 µm across the vessel lumen when factoring vessel angle  . The measured profiles were fit with several models of blood flow  . The RBC flow profile was modelled as described by Zhong et al . rRBwhere , V  is velocity at radial position r in a vessel , R is the maximum radial position  , Vmax is the maximum velocity  , β is a custom factor that is proportional to the normalized extrapolated RBC velocity at the lumen edges , and B is a custom bluntness index . Additionally , the plasma velocity profile was modeled assuming zero velocity at the lumen edges , to satisfy the no-slip boundary condition  . To compare those measurements with flow rate  measurements of larger vessels in this current study , we measured the average cell velocity from 1 s long space-time images of 90 capillaries captured with split detection phase contrast  . To determine cell velocity , cell locations were marked and were phase registered to produce an ‘average cell’ . The temporal width of this average cell was used to report average capillary velocity using the equation reported by us previously  . For diameter measurement , the vessel axis orientation was determined using the Radon transform . Multiple 5 µm strips orthogonal to the length of the vessel were analyzed for diameter  . For arterioles and venules , the average diameter was reported from 2 to 31 five-micron strips along the length of the vessel . The mean RBC velocity  and lumen diameter for each arteriole and venule were combined to give its mean flow rate  according to Poiseuille’s equation  :  Bloodflowrate=Velocitymean×π×Diameter24 Flow rate in capillaries was also measured their average cell velocity and cross-sectional area in the above equation  . 
Symbiosis Receptor-like Kinase  is indispensable for the development of phosphate-acquiring arbuscular mycorrhiza  as well as nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis , but the mechanisms that discriminate between the two distinct symbiotic developmental fates have been enigmatic . In this study , we show that upon ectopic expression , the receptor-like kinase genes Nod Factor Receptor 1  , NFR5 , and SYMRK initiate spontaneous nodule organogenesis and nodulation-related gene expression in the absence of rhizobia . Furthermore , overexpressed NFR1 or NFR5 associated with endogenous SYMRK in roots of the legume Lotus japonicus . Epistasis tests revealed that the dominant active SYMRK allele initiates signalling independently of either the NFR1 or NFR5 gene and upstream of a set of genes required for the generation or decoding of calcium-spiking in both symbioses . Only SYMRK but not NFR overexpression triggered the expression of AM-related genes , indicating that the receptors play a key role in the decision between AM- or root nodule symbiosis-development . One of the first steps in the reciprocal recognition between rhizobia and the legume Lotus japonicus is the perception of bacterial lipo-chitooligosaccharides , so called nodulation factors , by the two lysin motif  receptor-like kinases  Nod Factor Receptor 1  and NFR5  . -chitooligosaccharides have also been isolated from AM fungi  and a NFR5-related LysM-RLK from Parasponia has been pinpointed as a likely candidate for their perception  . The common symbiosis genes of legumes are required for AM and root nodule symbiosis . Phosphorylation by CCaMK activates CYCLOPS , a DNA-binding transcriptional activator of the NODULE INCEPTION gene  . NIN itself is a legume-specific and root nodule symbiosis-related transcription factor and regulates the Nuclear Factor-Y subunit genes NF-YA1 and NF-YB1 that control the cell division cycle  . Although SYMRK has been cloned several years ago  , its precise function in symbiosis is still enigmatic . While nfr mutants lack most cellular and physiological responses to rhizobia  , including nodulation factor-induced calcium influx and calcium-spiking , root hairs of symrk mutants respond with calcium influx to nodulation factor but not with calcium-spiking , and do not develop infection threads with rhizobia  . Based on these phenotypic observations , SYMRK was positioned downstream of the NFRs  . Importantly , it has not been conclusively resolved whether SYMRK plays an active signalling role in symbiosis or , alternatively , is involved in mechanical stress desensitisation  . To achieve overexpression , we generated constructs expressing functional SYMRK  , NFR5 , or NFR1 under the control of the strong L . japonicus Ubiquitin promoter and added C-terminal mOrange fluorescent tags for detection purposes  . The functionality of the NFR constructs was confirmed by their ability to restore nodulation in the corresponding , otherwise nodulation deficient , nfr mutant roots to the level of L . japonicus wild-type roots transformed with the empty vector  . japonicus roots was sufficient to spontaneously activate the entire nodule organogenesis pathway as evidenced by the formation of nodule-like structures in the absence of rhizobia  . The presence of peripheral vascular bundles instead of a central root vasculature unambiguously identified these lateral organs as spontaneous nodules  . Spontaneous nodule primordia or nodules were present on 90%  , 23%  , 11%  , and 0%  of L . japonicus root systems at 60 days post transformation  with , respectively , pUB:SYMRK-mOrange , pUB:NFR5-mOrange , pUB:NFR1-mOrange , or the empty vector  . A total of 810 empty vector roots generated throughout the course of this study did not develop spontaneous nodules in any of the genetic backgrounds and time points tested . Roots expressing functional SYMRK-RFP from its native promoter  and grown in the absence of rhizobia did not develop spontaneous nodules , indicating that spontaneous nodulation was triggered by SYMRK expression from the Ubiquitin promoter and not by the addition of a C-terminal tag alone  . Moreover , the expression of non-tagged SYMRK under the control of the Ubiquitin promoter triggered the formation of spontaneous nodules . In comparison to roots transformed with the tagged SYMRK version , a lower number of roots transformed with non-tagged SYMRK contained spontaneous nodules  . One explanation for this observation is that the C-terminal mOrange tag might result in alterations in the relative amount of signalling-active SYMRK . Our results demonstrate that overexpression of NFR1-mOrange , NFR5-mOrange , or SYMRK results in the activation and execution of the nodule organogenesis pathway in the absence of external symbiotic stimulation . Symbiotic RLKs mediate spontaneous formation of root nodules . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  , pUB:NFR5-mOrange  , or pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Plot represents the numbers of nodule primordia  , nodules  and total organogenesis events  per nodulated plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 60 dpt . Number of nodulated plants per total plants is specified under each line label . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Plants transformed with the empty vector did not develop spontaneous nodules . Pictures of spontaneous nodules on hairy roots expressing the indicated transgenes taken 60 dpt . Micrographs of sections of spontaneous nodules on hairy roots expressing the indicated transgenes harvested at 60 dpt . Spontaneous nodules of 10-week-old snf1-1 mutant plants were used as controls . Nodules of 10-week-old untransformed L . japonicus wild-type Gifu 6 weeks after inoculation with M . loti MAFF303099 DsRED contained cortical cells filled with bacteria  that are absent in spontaneous nodules . Expression of NFR1 and NFR5 from the Ubiquitin promoter restores nodulation in the nfr1-1 and nfr5-2 mutants , respectively . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type transformed with the empty vector  or with pUB:EFR-mOrange  , the nfr1-1 mutant transformed with pUB:NFR1-mOrange  or the nfr5-2 mutant transformed with pUB:NFR5-mOrange  were generated . Untransformed nfr1-1 and nfr5-2 mutant plants served as control . Numbers below each line label indicate the number of nodulated plants per total analysed plants . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Statistical analysis of spontaneous root nodule formation . Hairy roots of L japonicus Gifu wild-type transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  , pUB:NFR5-mOrange  , or pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Plot represents the numbers of organogenesis events  per plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 60 dpt . Number of nodulated plants per total plants is specified under each line label . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Expression of SYMRK from the native SYMRK promoter does not mediate spontaneous formation of root nodules . Hairy roots of L . japonicus symrk-3 transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  , or pSYMRK:SYMRK-RFP  were generated . Plot represents the number of total organogenesis events  per plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 21 dpt . Number of nodulated plants per total plants is specified under each line label . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Expression of non-tagged SYMRK from the Ubiquitin promoter induces spontaneous formation of root nodules . Hairy roots of L . japonicus symrk-3 transformed with pUBi:SYMRK  or pUBi:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Plot represents the number of total organogenesis events  per nodulated plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 42 dpt . Number of nodulated plants per total plants is specified under each line label . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Plants non-transformed or transformed with the empty vector did not develop spontaneous nodules . A Kruskal–Wallis test followed by false discovery rate correction was performed for total organogenesis events per nodulated root system  and for total organogenesis events per transformed root system  . Numbers below each line label indicate the number of nodulated plants per total analysed plants . 007 To establish whether the development of nodule-like structures was associated with nodulation-related gene activation , we analysed the expression behaviour of marker genes induced during root nodule symbiosis  via quantitative real-time PCR  . The SbtS gene is also induced during AM symbiosis  . In comparison to control roots transformed with the empty vector , the SYMRK construct resulted in a highly significant increase in NIN and SbtS transcript levels  . A slighter but statistically significant increase in transcript levels could be observed in roots overexpressing either NFR1-mOrange  or NFR5-mOrange   . Symbiotic RLKs mediate spontaneous symbiosis-related signal transduction . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu reporter lines  —carrying either the T90 reporter fusion , a NIN promoter:GUS fusion  , or a SbtS promoter:GUS fusion  —transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  , pUB:NFR5-mOrange  , or pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Representative root sections are shown . Number of plants with detectable GUS activity per number of total plants is indicated . In addition , we employed the symbiosis-reporter line T90 that was isolated in a screen for symbiosis-specific GUS expression from a promoter-tagging population   . However , the three RLK genes were not equally effective in inducing the symbiotic program: NFR5 or NFR1 overexpression resulted in a lower percentage of root systems showing promoter activation and formation of spontaneous nodules when compared to SYMRK overexpression  . Interestingly , SYMRK- as well as NFR5-mediated T90 or NIN promoter activation was first observed in the root and retracted to nodule primordia and nodules over time , while NFR1-mediated T90 or NIN promoter activation could only be detected in nodule primordia or in nodules  . Since SYMRK is not only required for nodulation but also for AM symbiosis , we investigated the potential of dominant active RLK alleles to spontaneously activate AM-related marker genes or a promoter:GUS reporter  . Transcript levels of SbtM1 and Bcp1 were determined via qRT-PCR , and both were significantly increased in roots transformed with pUB:SYMRK-mOrange compared to the empty vector control  . japonicus line harbouring a SbtM1 promoter:GUS fusion  . In line with the results from the qRT-PCR experiments , overexpression of SYMRK-mOrange in roots of the pSbtM1:GUS reporter line resulted in activation of the SbtM1 promoter at 40 and 60 dpt  . The absence of AM-related gene expression in NFR5-expressing roots is not a consequence of the overall lower induction power of the NFR5 construct . In SYMRK- vs NFR5-expressing roots , the relative ratio of transcripts was 1 . In contrast , SbtM1 was undetectable in NFR5- but more than 1100-fold above detection limit in SYMRK-overexpressing roots  . These data clearly demonstrate a strong difference in the gene repertoire activated by SYMRK vs NFR5 . Together with the spontaneous nodulation , these results demonstrate that overexpression of NFR1-mOrange , NFR5-mOrange , or SYMRK-mOrange activates the nodulation pathway as evidenced by spontaneous organogenesis and gene expression results at the level of endogenous transcripts as well as promoter:GUS expression . In contrast , only the SYMRK construct but neither of the NFR constructs induced AM-related gene expression . SYMRK mediates spontaneous AM-related signal transduction . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type  or a stable transgenic L . japonicus MG20 reporter line carrying a SbtM1 promoter:GUS fusion   transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  , pUB:NFR5-mOrange  , or pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Representative root sections are shown . Number of plants with detectable GUS activity per total plants is indicated . Upon expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves in the absence of symbiotic stimulation , we observed previously weak association between full-length SYMRK and NFR1 as well as NFR5 , but not between SYMRK and the functionally unrelated RLK Brassinosteroid Insensitive 1  . japonicus roots , we employed the overexpression constructs of NFR1 , NFR5 , or the unrelated EF-Tu receptor kinase  for co-immuno-enrichment experiments . The EFR construct did not interfere with nodulation in wild-type plants  . Endogenous full-length SYMRK was co-enriched with NFR1 and NFR5 , but not with EFR demonstrating association of SYMRK and both NFRs  . However , it should be noted that the expression strength of EFR was lower than that of NFR1 and NFR5 . SYMRK-NFR association was detected in the absence of nodulation factor . SYMRK associates with NFR1 and NFR5 in Lotus japonicus roots . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type roots expressing NFR1-mOrange  , NFR5-mOrange  , or EFR-mOrange  under the control of the Ubiquitin promoter were extracted 10 days post inoculation with M . Co-enrichment of endogenous SYMRK protein was monitored by immunoblot with an antiSYMRK antibody . Numbers below the western blot panels indicate the fold co-enrichment of SYMRK by NFR1 or NFR5 relative to the amount of SYMRK co-enriched with EFR . Full-length SYMRK associates with NFR1 and NFR5 in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves . benthamiana leaves were transiently co-transformed with constructs expressing NFR1-YFP , NFR5-YFP , or BRI1-YFP together with SYMRK-mOrange under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter . SYMRK-mOrange was immuno-enriched with RFP magnetotrap and monitored by immunoblot with an antiDsRED antibody . Co-enrichment of NFR1-YFP , NFR5-YFP , or BRI1-YFP was monitored by immunoblot with an antiGFP antibody . mOr , mOrange; IE , immuno-enrichment; WB , western blot . 011 The availability of dominant active receptor gene alleles offers an attractive tool for their positioning in the genetic pathway required for nodule organogenesis and symbiosis-related gene expression . We asked whether the pUB:SYMRK-mOrange construct induced spontaneous nodules or the symbiosis-specific T90 reporter in mutants of common symbiosis genes  . SYMRK-induced spontaneous nodules were absent from pollux-2 , castor-12 , nup133-1 , or ccamk-13 mutant roots . This epistasis revealed that the ion channel genes CASTOR and POLLUX , the nucleoporin gene NUP133 , and the calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase gene CCaMK , operate downstream of SYMRK in a pathway leading to spontaneous nodulation and activation of T90  . In contrast , SYMRK induced spontaneous nodules on cyclops-3 mutant roots  . Spontaneous nodule formation on the cyclops-3 mutant  corresponds to the formation of bump-like structures upon inoculation with M . loti on cyclops mutants  . japonicus cyclops or M . truncatula ipd3 mutants , nodule primordia or nodules , respectively , develop upon rhizobia inoculation  . Furthermore , an autoactive version of CCaMK is able to induce the formation of mature spontaneous nodules in cyclops mutants  . The ability of SYMRK to mediate spontaneous nodule organogenesis in the cyclops mutant is consistent with these results and points towards the existence of redundancies in the genetic pathway leading to organogenesis at the level of CYCLOPS  . Epistatic relationships between symbiotic RLK genes and common symbiosis genes . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type and different symbiosis defective mutants transformed with pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  or pSYMRK:SYMRK-RFP   , or the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  or pUB:NFR5-mOrange   were generated . Plots represent the numbers of nodules  and nodule primordia  per nodulated plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 40  and 60  dpt . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . Plants transformed with pSYMRK:SYMRK-RFP or the empty pUB vector did not develop spontaneous nodules . SYMRK-mediated spontaneous organogenesis events in nfr1-1 , nfr5-2 , and common symbiosis mutants . Hairy roots of different symbiosis defective mutants transformed with pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  or pSYMRK:SYMRK-RFP  were generated . Plot represents the numbers of organogenesis events  per plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 40 dpt . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . NFR5-mediated spontaneous organogenesis events in Gifu wild-type , nfr1-1 , nfr5-2 , and common symbiosis mutants . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type and different symbiosis defective mutants transformed with the empty vector  or pUB:NFR5-mOrange  were generated . Plot represents the number of organogenesis events  per plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 60 dpt . 5 IQR of the lower/upper quartile . NFR1-mediated spontaneous organogenesis events in Gifu wild-type , nfr1-1 , nfr5-2 , symrk-10 , and symrk-3 . Hairy roots of L . japonicus Gifu wild-type and different symbiosis defective mutants transformed with the empty vector  or pUB:NFR1-mOrange  were generated . Plot represents the number of organogenesis events  per plant formed in the absence of rhizobia at 60 dpt . SYMRK-mediated activation of the symbiosis-specific T90 reporter in symbiosis-defective mutants . Hairy roots of three stable transgenic L . japonicus Gifu reporter lines homozygous for the T90 reporter fusion and the indicated mutant alleles transformed with pUB:CCaMK T265D  , pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  , or pSYMRK:SYMRK-RFP  were generated and kept on agar plates for a total of 38 dpt  . The vast majority of transgenic root systems did not develop spontaneous nodules at this time point under these growth conditions . Representative root sections are shown . Number of plants with detectable GUS activity per total plants is indicated . NFR-mediated activation of the symbiosis-specific T90 reporter in the nfr1-1 mutant background . Hairy roots a stable transgenic L . japonicus Gifu reporter line homozygous for the T90 reporter fusion and the nfr1-1 mutant allele transformed with the empty vector  , pUB:NFR1-mOrange  , pUB:NFR5-mOrange  , or pUB:SYMRK-mOrange  were generated . Representative root sections are shown . Number of plants with detectable GUS activity per total number of plants is indicated . 017 We used the dominant active alleles to determine the hierarchy of the symbiotic RLK genes in the spontaneous nodulation and T90 activation pathways . Control roots of mutant lines transformed with the empty vector  or SYMRK driven by its own promoter  did not carry spontaneous nodules or nodule primordia  . Expression of pUB:SYMRK-mOrange spontaneously activated the nodulation program in nfr1-1 , nfr5-2 , and symrk-3 mutant roots  . Spontaneous nodules on nfr1-1 or nfr5-2 roots overexpressing SYMRK-mOrange indicate that the simultaneous presence of both NFRs is not necessary for spontaneous SYMRK-mediated nodulation  . Consistent with this result , overexpression of SYMRK-mOrange resulted in spontaneous GUS expression in the nfr1-1 x T90 line   . NFR-mediated formation of spontaneous nodules could only be observed in the wild-type or the respective nfr mutant  . Neither NFR construct spontaneously induced nodule organogenesis in a symrk-3  or symrk-10  background , indicating that the formation of nodules is depended on the presence of kinase-active SYMRK  . Spontaneous NFR5-mediated nodulation was completely abolished in the nfr1-1 mutant , demonstrating that NFR1 is essential for this NFR5 function  . This dependence of NFR5 on NFR1 is further supported by the observation that overexpression of NFR1-mOrange and SYMRK-mOrange but not of NFR5-mOrange activated the T90 reporter in the nfr1-1 mutant background  . These results position SYMRK downstream of or at the same hierarchical level as NFRs . Moreover , while SYMRK-mediated spontaneous signalling does not require the simultaneous presence of NFR1 and NFR5 , NFR5-mediated spontaneous signalling is dependent on the presence of NFR1 . A hallmark of the nitrogen-fixing symbiosis of legumes is the accommodation of rhizobia inside plant root cells in specialised organs—the nodules—that provide a favourable environment for nitrogen fixation . Given that the common symbiosis pathway is operating in AM symbiosis in most land plants , the discovery that expression of either of the three symbiotic RLK constructs from the strong Ubiquitin promoter leads to the spontaneous formation of nodules in transgenic L . japonicus roots  could pave the way towards the synthetic transfer of nitrogen-fixing root nodules to important non-leguminous crop species . As the symbiotic RLKs act at the entry level of root nodule symbiosis signalling , auto-active versions provide a valuable tool to study the entire nodulation pathway uncoupled from bacterial infection . Furthermore , dominant active RLK versions could be useful for probing and dissecting the symbiotic signalling pathway , also in those plant lineages that are presently unable to develop nitrogen fixing root nodule symbiosis . It has been observed that cytoplasmic streaming in root hairs of a symrk-3 mutant did not resume after mechanical stimulation , which raised the possibility that the absence of calcium-spiking upon injection of calcium-sensitive dyes into mutant root hair cells was a pleiotropic effect of this increased touch sensitivity  . If touch desensitisation was the only function of SYMRK , its overexpression would not lead to spontaneous nodule formation . We therefore unambiguously demonstrated a direct role of SYMRK in symbiosis signalling , while eliminating the possibility that the symbiosis defects of symrk mutants are due to pleiotropic effects only . Mutants defective for either of the common symbiosis genes SYMRK , CASTOR , POLLUX , NENA , NUP85 , or NUP133 produce very similar phenotypes in symbiosis , in that they abort infection at the epidermis and are impaired in calcium-spiking  , which placed them at the same hierarchical level . Epistasis tests revealed that SYMRK initiates signalling upstream of other common symbiosis genes implicated in the generation and interpretation of nuclear calcium signatures  . These findings support the conceptual framework in which SYMRK activates the calcium-spiking machinery and consequently the CCaMK/CYCLOPS complex , a central regulator of symbiosis-related gene expression and nodule organogenesis  . This is in line with the observation that dominant active variants of CCaMK were able to restore nodulation and infection in symrk mutant backgrounds , indicating that a main function of SYMRK in symbiosis is the activation of CCaMK  . We observed association between SYMRK and either NFR1 or NFR5 upon NFR overexpression in L . japonicus roots  . Interestingly , under these conditions , the SYMRK-NFR association was detected in the absence of nodulation factor  . Unfortunately , we could not address the question whether SYMRK-NFR interaction is ligand-induced at endogenous levels of NFR expression since NFR1 and NFR5 were difficult to detect under these conditions . We observed that NFR5 requires NFR1 as well as SYMRK for the spontaneous initiation of symbiosis signalling . , in which NFR1 and NFR5 engage in a nodulation factor perception complex . The finding that NFR1 and NFR5 interact with SYMRK upon overexpression suggests that the three RLKs engage in a receptor complex  , and that this interaction might activate SYMRK for signal transduction . The observation that SYMRK operates independently of NFR1 or NFR5 brings about a new twist into current models of the signalling pathway   . NFR1 and NFR5 are only essential in the epidermis  , and it is likely that—at least partially—other members of the LysM-RLK gene family of L . japonicus  take over their role in the root cortex . NFR1 or NFR5 dispensability may be explained by other LysM-RLKs that might engage in alternative receptor complexes with SYMRK . Alternatively , spontaneous SYMRK-mediated signalling might be independent of any LysM-RLK , however , given the large number of LysM-RLKs in legumes  , it is difficult to test the latter hypothesis conclusively . SYMRK undergoes cleavage of its ectodomain , resulting in a truncated RLK molecule called SYMRK-ΔMLD  . benthamiana leaves , NFR5 binds preferentially to SYMRK-ΔMLD , which experiences rapid turnover in N . japonicus  . As our SYMRK antibody does not recognise endogenous SYMRK-ΔMLD , we were not able to assess whether overexpressed NFR1 or NFR5 also associates with this truncated SYMRK variant in L . japonicus roots . In a hypothetical scenario , the SYMRK-ΔMLD complex with NFR5 forms constitutively to prevent inappropriate signalling , for example in the absence of rhizobia . The recruitment of NFR1 , a hypothetical signal initiation event , would be promoted by the presence of nodulation factor . japonicus both NFR1 and NFR5 seem to interact with full-length SYMRK  suggests the formation of a ternary complex . This hypothetical complex has dual functionality: it signals through SYMRK on one hand to activate CCaMK and through the NFR1-NFR5 complex on the other hand to trigger the infection-related parallel pathways discovered by Madsen et al . It is possible that SYMRK has a dual—positive and negative—regulatory role: on the one hand SYMRK promotes signalling but on the other hand SYMRK-ΔMLD may be involved in preventing inappropriate signalling . A negative regulatory role would explain the exaggerated root hair response of symrk mutants to rhizobia  , since NFR1–NFR5 interaction is no longer under governance by SYMRK-ΔMLD . It has been demonstrated recently that expression of the intracellular kinase domain of SYMRK  from Medicago truncatula or Arachis hypogaea in M . truncatula roots from the CaMV 35S promoter induces nodule organogenesis in the absence of rhizobia  . During the evolution of the nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis , this ancient genetic programme has been co-opted , as evidenced by the common symbiosis genes  . The discovery that the ancient SYMRK might act as a docking site for the recently evolved nodulation factor perception system  , highlights the role of this putative interface during the recruitment of the ancestral AM signalling pathway for root nodule symbiosis . Since a LysM-RLK closely related to NFR5 has been implicated in AM signalling  , this finding also provides a conceptual mechanism for the integration of signals from the rhizobial and fungal microsymbiont through alternative complex formation between SYMRK and NFRs or AM factor receptors . One question that has puzzled the community since the postulate of a common symbiosis pathway is how the decision between the developmental pathways of AM or root nodule symbiosis is made when the signalling employs identical signalling components . Our observation of differential gene activation triggered by NFRs and SYMRK provides evidence that an important decision point is directly at the level of the receptors  . The SYMRK-mediated loss of signalling specificity may be explained by simultaneous complex formation of SYMRK with NFR1 and NFR5 , and related LysM-RLKs that mediate recognition of signals from the AM fungus  , which results in the release of both negative regulatory mechanisms , or by an unbalanced stoichiometry of SYMRK and putative specific negative regulators of AM- and root nodule symbiosis signalling . Candidates for such regulators include the identified interactors of the kinase domains of NFR1 , NFR5 , and SYMRK  . The loss of signalling specificity upon SYMRK overexpression is reminiscent of expression of the deregulated CCaMK314 deletion mutant that also induces spontaneous nodules and AM-related gene activation  . It is therefore possible that SYMRK overexpression imposes a deregulated state on CCaMK that is otherwise attainable artificially through the deletion of its regulatory domain . japonicus seed germination  and hairy root transformation  were performed as described previously . Plants with emerging hairy roots systems were transferred to Fahraeus medium  plates containing 0 . Plants for the SYMRK- and CCaMKT265D-mediated T90 activation in the nfr1-1 , cyclops-2 , and ccamk-2 mutants were transferred to FP plates containing 0 . Roots were phenotyped 15 days after inoculation . Transgenic root systems of L . japonicus plants were harvested 40 dpt . For statistical analysis of the numbers of nodules , nodule primordia , or total organogenesis events , a Kruskal–Wallis test was applied followed by false discovery rate correction . 
However , currently available animal pose estimation methods have limitations in speed and robustness . Here , we introduce a new easy-to-use software toolkit , DeepPoseKit , that addresses these problems using an efficient multi-scale deep-learning model , called Stacked DenseNet , and a fast GPU-based peak-detection algorithm for estimating keypoint locations with subpixel precision . We demonstrate the versatility of our methods with multiple challenging animal pose estimation tasks in laboratory and field settings—including groups of interacting individuals . State-of-the-art machine learning methods , like CNNs , use these training data to parameterize a model describing the statistical relationships between a set of input data  and the desired output distribution  . After adequate training , a model can be used to make predictions on previously-unseen data from the same dataset—inputs that were not part of the training set , which is known as inference . We provide more detailed background information on using CNNs for pose estimation in Appendices 2–6 . Similar to conventional pose estimation methods , the task of implementing deep-learning models in software and training them on new data is complex and requires expert knowledge . However , in most cases , once the underlying model and training routine are implemented , a high-accuracy pose estimation model for a novel context can be built with minimal modification—often just by changing the training data . Mathis et al . and Pereira et al . were the first to popularize the use of CNNs for animal pose estimation . These researchers built on work from the human pose estimation literature  using a type of fully-convolutional neural network or F-CNN  often referred to as an encoder-decoder model  . These models are used to measure animal posture by training the network to transform images into probabilistic estimates of keypoint locations , known as confidence maps  , that describe the body posture for one or more individuals . While deep-learning models typically need large amounts of training data , both Mathis et al . and Pereira et al . have demonstrated that near human-level accuracy can be achieved with few training examples  . In order to ensure generalization to large datasets , both groups of researchers introduced ideas related to iteratively refining the training set used for model fitting  . In particular , Pereira et al . describe a technique known as active learning where a trained model is used to initialize new training data and reduce annotation time  . Mathis et al . describe multiple techniques that can be used to further refine training data and minimize errors when making predictions on the full dataset . Simple methods to accomplish this include filtering data or selecting new training examples based on confidence scores or the entropy of the confidence maps from the model output . Mathis et al . , 2018 developed their pose estimation model , which they call DeepLabCut , by modifying a previously published model called DeeperCut  . The DeepLabCut model  , like the DeeperCut model , is built on the popular ResNet architecture  —a state-of-the-art deep-learning model used for image classification . Overparameterization allows the model to make accurate predictions , but this may come with the cost of slow inference . To alleviate these effects , work from Mathis and Warren  showed that inference speed for the DeepLabCut model  can be improved by decreasing the resolution of input images , but this is achieved at the expense of accuracy . With regard to model design , Pereira et al . implement a modified version of a model called SegNet  , which they call LEAP  , that attempts to limit model complexity and overparameterization with the goal of maximizing inference speed  —however , our comparisons from this paper suggest  achieved only limited success compared to the DeepLabCut model  . Additionally , to achieve maximum performance , the training routine for the LEAP model introduced by Pereira et al . Together the methods from Mathis et al . and Pereira et al . Mathis et al . prioritize accuracy over speed by using a large overparameterized model  , and Pereira et al . prioritize speed over accuracy by using a smaller less-robust model . While this speed-accuracy trade-off can limit the capabilities of CNNs , there has been extensive work to make these models more efficient without impacting accuracy  . This multi-scale design gives the model capacity to learn the hierarchical relationships between different spatial scales and efficiently aggregate them into a joint representation when solving the posture estimation task  . Most work on human pose estimation now focuses on estimating the pose of multiple individuals in an image  . For animal pose estimation , the methods from Pereira et al . are limited to estimating posture for single individuals—known as individual pose estimation—while the methods from Mathis et al . can also be extended to estimate posture for multiple individuals simultaneously—known as multiple pose estimation . However , the majority of work on multiple pose estimation , including Mathis et al . Additionally , as the name suggests , the task of multiple pose estimation requires exhaustively annotating images of multiple individuals—where every individual in the image must be annotated to prevent the model from learning conflicting information . We introduce a top-down posture estimation framework that can be readily adapted to existing behavioral analysis workflows , which could include any method for localizing and tracking individuals . Limiting our methods to individual pose estimation also simplifies the pose detection problem as processing confidence maps produced by the model does not require computationally-expensive local peak detection and complex methods for grouping keypoints into individual posture graphs  . Additionally , because individual pose estimation is such a well-studied problem in computer vision , we can readily build on state-of-the-art methods for this task  . , as well as a flexible pipeline for data augmentation  , model training and evaluation  , and running inference on new data . To achieve the goal of 'fast animal pose estimation’ introduced by Pereira et al . , while maintaining the robust predictive power of models like DeepLabCut  , we implemented two fast pose estimation models that extend the state-of-the-art model for individual pose estimation introduced by Newell et al . Our model implementations use fewer parameters than both the DeepLabCut model  and LEAP model  while simultaneously removing many of the limitations of these architectures . In order to limit overparameterization while minimizing performance loss , we designed our models to allow for multi-scale inference  while optimizing our model hyperparameters for efficiency . Our first model is a novel implementation of FC-DenseNet from Jégou et al . We call this new model Stacked DenseNet , and to the best of our knowledge , this is the first implementation of this model architecture in the literature—for pose estimation or otherwise . Further details for this model are available in Appendix 8 . Our second model is a modified version of the Stacked Hourglass model from Newell et al . In addition to implementing our efficient pose estimation models , we developed a new method to process model outputs to allow for faster , more accurate predictions . When using a fully-convolutional posture estimation model , the confidence maps produced by the model must be converted into coordinate values for the predictions to be useful , and there are typically two choices for making this conversion . We also provide speed comparisons with the other models we tested and find that our Stacked DenseNet model with our subpixel peak detection algorithm is faster than the DeepLabCut model  for both offline  and real-time speeds  . While we find that our Stacked DenseNet model is faster than the LEAP model  for offline processing  , the LEAP model  is significantly faster for real-time processing  . Our Stacked Hourglass model  is about the same or slightly faster than Stacked DenseNet for offline speeds  , but is much slower for real-time processing  . Achieving fast pose estimation using CNNs typically relies on massively parallel processing on the GPU with large batches of data or requires downsampling the images to increase speed , which increases error  . Our Stacked DenseNet model , with a batch size of one , can run inference at ∼30–110 Hz—depending on the resolution of the predicted confidence maps  . These speeds are faster than the DeepLabCut model  and could be further improved by downsampling the input image resolution or reconfiguring the model with fewer parameters . One way to minimize extreme errors when estimating posture is to incorporate multiple spatial scales when making predictions  . Our pose estimation models are implicitly capable of using information from multiple scales  , but there is no explicit signal that optimizes the model to take advantage of this information when making predictions . We find that training our Stacked DenseNet model to predict a hierarchical posture graph reduces keypoint prediction error  , and because the feature maps for the posture graph can be removed from the final output during inference , this effectively improves prediction accuracy for free . We benchmarked our new model implementations against the models Pereira et al . and Mathis et al . We find that our Stacked DenseNet model outperforms both the LEAP model  and the DeepLabCut model  in terms of speed while also achieving much higher accuracy than the LEAP model  with similar accuracy to the DeepLabCut model  . We found that both the Stacked Hourglass and Stacked DenseNet models outperformed the LEAP model  . Notably our Stacked DenseNet model achieved approximately 2× faster inference speeds with 3× higher mean accuracy . Not only were our models average prediction error significantly improved , but also , importantly , the variance was lower—indicating that our models produced fewer extreme prediction errors . At 14× resolution , our Stacked DenseNet model consistently achieved prediction accuracy nearly identical to the DeepLabCut model  while running inference at nearly 2× the speed and using only ∼5% of the parameters—1 . Detailed results of our model comparisons are shown in Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . While the Stacked DenseNet model used for comparisons is already fast , inference speed could be further improved by using a 18× output without much increase in error  or by further adjusting the hyperparameters to constrain the size of the model . Our Stacked Hourglass implementation followed closely behind the performance of our Stacked DenseNet model and the DeepLabCut model  but consistently performed more poorly than our Stacked DenseNet model in terms of prediction accuracy , so we excluded this model from further analysis . that the LEAP model and the Stacked Hourglass model  have similar average prediction error for the fly dataset . However , we also find that the LEAP model  has much higher variance , which suggests it is more prone to extreme prediction errors—a problem for further data analysis . To further compare models , we used our zebra dataset to assess the training time needed for our Stacked DenseNet model , the DeepLabCut model  , and the LEAP model  to reach convergence  as well as the amount of training data needed for each model to generalize to new data from outside the training set . We find that our Stacked DenseNet model , the DeepLabCut model  , and the LEAP model  all fully converge in just a few hours and reach reasonably high accuracy after only an hour of training  . However , it appears that our Stacked DenseNet model tends to converge to a good minimum faster than both the DeepLabCut model  and the LEAP model  . We also show that our Stacked DenseNet model achieves good generalization with few training examples and without the use of transfer learning  . These results demonstrate that , when combined with data augmentation , as few as five training examples can be used as an initial training set for labelling keypoints with active learning  . To further examine the effect of transfer learning on model generalization , we compared performance between the DeepLabCut model  initialized with weights pretrained on the ImageNet database  vs . the same model with randomly initialized weights  . Together these results indicate that transfer learning is helpful , but not required , for deep learning models to achieve good generalization with limited training data . Here , we have presented a new software toolkit , called DeepPoseKit , for estimating animal posture using deep learning models . We built on the state-of-the-art for individual pose estimation using convolutional neural networks to achieve fast inference without reducing accuracy or generalization ability . Our new pose estimation model , called Stacked DenseNet , offers considerable improvements  over the models from Mathis et al . and Pereira et al . We found that our methods perform well for all these situations and require few training examples to achieve good predictive performance on new data—without the use of transfer learning . For example , deep learning models are trained using stochastic optimization algorithms that give different results with each replicate , and the Bayesian statistical methods we use for comparison are explicitly probabilistic in nature . Additionally , we demonstrated that some models may perform better than others for specific applications  , and to account for this , our toolkit offers researchers the ability to choose the model that best suits their requirements—including the LEAP model  and the DeepLabCut model  . We highlighted important considerations when using CNNs for pose estimation and reviewed the progress of fully convolutional regression models from the literature . When used together with other tools for localization and tracking  , our methods are capable of reliably measuring posture for multiple interacting individuals . Additionally , using body pose estimation in combination with computational models of behavior  and unsupervised behavioral classification methods  may allow for further dissection of how information flows through groups by revealing the networks of behavioral contagion across multiple timescales and sensory modalities . Computer vision algorithms for measuring behavior at the scale of posture have rapidly advanced in a very short time; nevertheless , the task of pose estimation is far from solved . New pose estimation methods are already replacing human annotations with fully articulated volumetric 3-D models of the animal’s body  , and the 3-D scene can be estimated using unsupervised , semi-supervised , or weakly-supervised methods  , where the shape , position , and posture of the animal’s body , the camera position and lens parameters , and the background environment and lighting conditions are jointly learned directly from 2-D images by a deep-learning model  . In conclusion , we have presented a new toolkit , called DeepPoseKit , for automatically measuring animal posture from images . The images used for each training set were randomly selected using the k-means sampling procedure  described by Pereira et al . Before training each model we split each annotated dataset into randomly selected training and validation sets with 90% training examples and 10% validation examples , unless otherwise noted . For each experiment , we set our model hyperparameters to the same configuration for our Stacked DenseNet and Stacked Hourglass models . Both models were trained with 14× resolution outputs and a stack of two networks with two outputs where loss was applied  . Although our model hyperparameters could be infinitely adjusted to trade off between speed and accuracy , we compared only one configuration for each of our model implementations . The details of the hyperparameters we used for each model are described in Appendix 8 . To make our posture estimation tasks closer to realistic conditions , incorporate prior information  , and properly demonstrate the robustness of our methods to rotation , translation , scale , and noise , we applied various augmentations to each data set during training  . We trained our models  using mean squared error loss optimized using the ADAM optimizer  with a learning rate of 1 × 10-3 and a batch size of 16 . Machine learning models are typically evaluated for their ability to generalize to new data , known as predictive performance , using a held-out test set—a subsample of annotated data that is not used for training or validation . Generally a test set is used to avoid biased performance measures caused by overfitting the model hyperparameters to the validation set . However , we did not adjust our model architecture to achieve better performance on our validation set—only to achieve fast inference speeds . While we did use validation error to decide when to lower the learning rate during training and when to stop training , lowering the learning rate in this way should have no effect on the generalization ability of the model , and because we heavily augment our training set during optimization—forcing the model to learn a much larger data distribution than what is included in the training and validation sets—overfitting to the validation set is unlikely . All these factors make the Euclidean error for the unaugmented validation set a reasonable measure of the predictive performance for each model . The inference speed for each model was assessed by running predictions on 100 , 000 randomly generated images with a batch size of 1 for real-time speeds and a batch size of 100 for offline speeds , unless otherwise noted . We used both GPUs  for training models and evaluating predictive performance , but we only used the faster Titan Xp GPU for benchmarking inference speeds and training time . This model takes the form:p  ∼Gamma  α=μ2ϕ−1β=μϕ−1μ=h  ϕ=h  where X is the design matrix composed of binary indicator variables for each pose estimation model , θμ and θϕ are vectors of intercepts , h⁢  is the softplus function  —or h⁢  =log⁡  —used to enforce positivity of μ and ϕ , and y is the Euclidean error of the pose estimation model . Details of how we fitted these models can be found in Appendix 7 . 
We describe here the identification of an intracellular trigger of NLRP3-mediated inflammatory signaling , IL-1β production and pyroptosis in primed murine bone marrow-derived macrophages that is mediated by the disruption of glycolytic flux . This signal is also important for host-cell response to the intracellular pathogen Salmonella typhimurium , which can disrupt metabolism by uptake of host-cell glucose . The resulting macromolecular complex is referred to as the inflammasome  . The inactive precursor of the cytokine interleukin-1β  is also recruited to the inflammasome complex , where proteolysis by caspase-1 induces activation and secretion of the bioactive cytokine , further promoting inflammation . In addition to cytokine maturation , inflammasome formation and caspase activation are associated with a pro-inflammatory form of cell death termed pyroptosis  . Furthermore , while the NLRP3 signaling pathway can be activated by a variety of both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria , the mechanism by which these pathogens induce inflammasome signaling through this receptor is often unclear  . Specifically , effective defense against Salmonella typhimurium  requires NLRP3  , yet the mechanism by which the pathogen activates this pathway remains unknown . Here , we report a small molecule , GB111-NH2 , that induces NLRP3 inflammasome formation , caspase-1 activation , IL-1β secretion , and pyroptotic cell death in bone marrow-derived macrophages  . Using chemical proteomics , we identify the glycolytic enzymes GAPDH and α-enolase as the phenotypically relevant targets of this molecule . Facilitating TCA metabolism downstream of glycolysis by addition of pyruvate or succinate blocked the effects of the compound . typhimurium infection , like direct chemical inhibition of the glycolytic enzymes , reduced glycolytic flux and that restoring metabolism downstream of glycolysis also prevented S . typhimurium-induced inflammasome formation , IL-1β secretion , and pyroptosis . We find that glycolytic disruption induced by either the small molecules or S . typhimurium infection impaired NADH production , resulting in the formation of mitochondrial ROS that were essential for NLRP3 inflammasome activation . Therefore , disruption of glycolytic flux is a biologically relevant trigger of NLRP3 inflammasome activation that is mediated by mitochondrial redox changes , revealing a mechanistic link between cellular metabolism and initiation of inflammation . While screening peptide-based compounds for their effects on inflammasome signaling , we identified one compound , GB111-NH2   , that was sufficient to induce caspase-1 activation in LPS-primed bone marrow-derived macrophages . We measured caspase-1 activation by monitoring conversion of procaspase-1 to the mature p10 form by Western blot and , in parallel , by labeling BMDM with the caspase-1-selective activity-based probe  , AWP28   . In addition to producing active caspase-1 , we found that GB111-NH2-treated BMDMs secreted the cytokine IL-1β in a dose-dependent manner  . Identification of the NLRP3 inflammasome activator GB111-NH2 . Structure of GB111-NH2 . BMDM primed with 100 ng/mL LPS for 3 hr were then treated with GB111-NH2 . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated concentrations of GB111-NH2 for 2 hr . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with 10 μM GB111-NH2 for 2 hr , labeled with AWP28 , fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and visualized by confocal microscopy . BMDM of the indicated genetic backgrounds were treated with GB111-NH2 as in  and inflammasome foci/nuclei quantified . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated compounds  and supernatant analyzed by ELISA . BMDM of the indicated genetic backgrounds were treated as in  and supernatant analyzed by ELISA . BMDM were primed with LPS or vehicle , then treated with GB111-NH2 for 2 hr . Cell death in LPS-primed , GB111-NH2-treated BMDM was analyzed by LDH release . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with 10 μM GB111-NH2 for 2 hr , labeled with AWP28 , stained for Annexin V  and propidium iodide  , and visualized by microscopy . Supernatant from BMDM treated with the indicated concentrations of GB111-NH2 were analyzed by western blot for IL-1β . GB111-NH2 does not impair secretion of TNF-α and dose-dependently reduces IL-6 secretion . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated concentrations of GB111-NH2 for 2 hr and then analyzed for IL-6  and TNF-α  production by ELISA . 005 By fluorescence microscopy , we observed formation of foci containing the inflammasome adaptor ASC and active caspase-1 in GB111-NH2-treated BMDMs  . Formation of these foci was dependent on NLRP3 and ASC but not caspase-1 , caspase-11 , NLRC4 , or AIM2  . We observed that GB111-NH2 induced a similar level of IL-1β secretion as the NLRP3 stimuli ATP and nigericin  and that the absence of NLRP3 completely abrogated IL-1β secretion induced by GB111-NH2 treatment . Taken together , these data indicate that GB111-NH2 induces caspase-1 activation and IL-1β secretion solely through the NLRP3 inflammasome , acting as an activating ‘Signal II’ for the canonical NLRP3 pathway  . In order for ‘Signal II’ to activate the NLRP3 inflammasome , BMDM must first be primed by a ‘Signal I’ such as LPS . LPS priming induces NF-κB-dependent transcription of pro-inflammatory genes such as IL-1β and inflammasome-independent secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 and TNF-α  . We measured lysate protein levels by Western blotting and supernatant cytokine levels by ELISA in BMDM treated as in previously described experiments; first primed for 3 hr with LPS and then treated for 2 hr with GB111-NH2 . We observed the appearance of pro-IL-1β upon LPS priming  but there was no effect of GB111-NH2 on either IL-1β protein levels in BMDM that had received LPS priming  . In addition , IL-6 secretion decreased with increasing dose of GB111-NH2 and TNF-α secretion was unaffected by GB111-NH2  . Therefore , GB111-NH2 does not have a direct effect on Signal I , but functions predominantly as a Signal II for the NLRP3 inflammasome . Macrophages containing active inflammasome complexes often rapidly die by a pro-inflammatory process called pyroptosis  . We observed features of this form of cell death in GB111-NH2-treated BMDM , including release of the intracellular enzyme lactate dehydrogenase   , and foci of caspase-1 activity in propidium iodide  and Annexin V  positive cells  . These data confirm that GB111-NH2 is a small molecule activator of the NLRP3 inflammasome that also triggers pyroptotic cell death . Given that GB111-NH2 is chemically distinct from other known activators of NLRP3 and easily modifiable , we wanted to use it as a tool to identify protein targets that are involved in triggering this pro-inflammatory response . To accomplish this , we first conducted a small structure-activity relationship  study in which we synthesized a series of analogs of GB111-NH2 to identify compounds that could be used for affinity isolation of labeled targets . Importantly , our SAR efforts identified both an inactive analog  as well as an azide-containing analog  that retained the inflammasome-activating ability of GB111-NH2  . However , because removal of the acyloxymethylketone  electrophile from GB111-NH2  resulted in loss of the ability of the compound to induce IL-1β secretion , we reasoned that the compound likely acted through covalent modification of its relevant targets . Structure-activity relationship study and identification of GB111-NH2 targets . Structures of GB111-NH2 analogs with structural changes highlighted in gray . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with analogs and supernatant IL-1β measured by ELISA . Az-GB is a functional probe version of GB111-NH2 . BMDM were treated with GB111-NH2 or az-GB and labeled with AWP28 . SV40-immortalized macrophages were treated with az-GB . 007 We conducted a proteomic study in which we pre-treated BMDMs with either active or inactive analogs of GB111-NH2 , labeled with the az-GB probe , reacted the resulting lysates with alkyne-biotin and identified affinity isolated targets using multidimensional protein identification technology    . To determine which of the potential protein targets of GB111-NH2 were responsible for its’ phenotypic effects , we first tested whether reported selective inhibitors of several of the identified targets mimicked the effects of GB111-NH2 . We tested these compounds for their effects on LPS-primed BMDM and found that only inhibitors of the glycolytic enzymes glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase  and α-enolase induced IL-1β secretion , inflammasome formation , and caspase-1 processing  . Mass spectrometry results demonstrated that GB111-NH2 also bound to lysosomal cysteine cathepsins  , though not in the expected pattern . These data indicate that the phenotypically relevant targets of GB111-NH2 are the glycolytic enzymes GAPDH and α-enolase . The phenotypically relevant targets of GB111-NH2 are glycolytic enzymes . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated compounds  and IL-1β secretion was analyzed by ELISA . Whole cell lysates were separated by SDS-PAGE and blotted for pro-IL-1β . BMDMs were treated with KA and EB and cell lysates were analyzed for caspase-1 processing by western blot . BMDM were treated as in  , labeled with AWP28 , fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy . LPS-primed BMDM from the indicated genetic backgrounds were treated with KA or EB for 3 hr , fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and analyzed by confocal microscopy . LPS-primed BMDM of the indicated genetic backgrounds were treated with the indicated compounds  and supernatant analyzed for IL-1β production by ELISA . BMDM were treated as in  . Whole cell lysates were separated by SDS-PAGE and blotted for pro-IL-1β , NLRP3 , and α-tubulin . Cathepsin inhibition does not induce caspase-1 activation . BMDM were treated with GB111-NH2 or structurally dissimilar cathepsin inhibitors CA074Me , E64d , and leupeptin . Koningic acid and ENOblock induce dose-dependent IL-1β secretion . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated concentrations of koningic acid or ENOblock for 3 hr and supernatants analyzed by ELISA . 010 The GAPDH and α-enolase inhibitors KA and EB failed to induce inflammasome formation in cells that lack Pycard or Nlrp3  , induced IL-1β secretion in a dose-dependent manner that was also NLRP3-dependent  , and had no effect on pro-IL-1β or NLRP3 levels in LPS-primed BMDM  . These data demonstrate that structurally dissimilar inhibitors of either GAPDH or α-enolase activate the canonical NLRP3 inflammasome pathway similarly to GB111-NH2 . To further confirm the targets of GB111-NH2 , we measured the ability of the parent compound and its analogs to covalently bind and inhibit the activity of the identified glycolytic enzyme targets . To test if our compounds covalently bound to GAPDH and α-enolase , we incubated recombinant GAPDH and α-enolase with our az-GB probe , used Click chemistry to attach TAMRA-alkyne to the az-GB probe , and analyzed reaction mixtures by fluorescent scanning of SDS-PAGE gels . We observed probe labeling of both GAPDH and α-enolase , indicating that the az-GB probe covalently binds to both enzymes  . Pretreatment with GB111-NH2 blocked az-GB binding to both GAPDH and α-enolase in a dose-dependent manner , indicating that both compounds bind to similar sites on their enzyme targets . The GB111-NH2 analog containing a more reactive phenoxymethylketone electrophile  , which also induced IL-1β secretion more potently in cells than GB111-NH2 , also blocked az-GB binding to both GAPDH and α-enolase at lower concentrations compared to GB111-NH2 . Importantly , the analogs that did not induce IL-1β secretion in BMDM , compound 2  and GB-IA  , did not compete for az-GB binding to GAPDH and α-enolase . We did observe some labeling of GAPDH and α-enolase by TAMRA-alkyne independent of the az-GB probe , which is potentially due to the ability of alkynes to function as cysteine electrophiles  . Compounds covalently bind to reactive cysteines on GAPDH and α-enolase and inhibit enzyme activity in vitro . Recombinant human GAPDH was pretreated with GB111-NH2 and its analogs at the indicated concentrations for 1 hr in 0 . 0 , then labeled with az-GB  for 1 hr . Recombinant human α-enolase was labeled as described for GAPDH in  . GAPDH was incubated with NEM  , GB111-NH2  or vehicle for 30 min , then labeled with iodoacetamide fluorescein  for 30 min . α-enolase was treated as described for GAPDH in  and blotted for α-enolase to assess loading . GAPDH and α-enolase were incubated with GB111-NH2 for the indicated amounts of time and then enzyme activity assessed . az-GB binds to reactive cysteines on recombinant GAPDH and α-enolase in a manner that is dependent on enzyme activity . 1% SDS and then labeled with az-GB  . To further investigate the proposed covalent interaction of GB111-NH2 with reactive cysteine residues in GAPDH and α-enolase , we performed competition studies with the general cysteine reative probe iodoacetamide fluorescein  . Importantly , GB111-NH2 also competed for IAF labeling , indicating that it covalently binds these same reactive cysteines  . To confirm that binding of our compounds to these enzymes also inhibits enzyme activity , we performed substrate assays with recombinant GAPDH and α-enolase and found that GB111-NH2 dose-dependently inhibited turnover of the respective substrates , glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate and 2-phosphoglycerate  . GB-IA did not significantly inhibit GAPDH but did exhibit modest inhibitory activity towards α-enolase . GB111-NH2 also showed time-dependent inhibition of GAPDH and α-enolase activity  , suggesting that it is acting as an irreversible inhibitor  . Taken together , these data indicate that GB111-NH2 binds covalently to reactive cysteine residues in both GAPDH and α-enolase and that binding to these cysteine residues inhibits enzyme activity . Because GAPDH activity was recently shown to determine flux through aerobic glycolysis  , we hypothesized that our compounds were activating NLRP3 by disrupting glycolytic flux . Productive glycolysis results in conversion of NAD+ to NADH , secretion of lactate , and ATP production  . To first test the hypothesis that GB111-NH2 , KA , and EB block glycolytic flux we measured the ratio of NAD+/NADH , lactate production , and intracellular ATP concentration in inhibitor-treated BMDM . LPS stimulation , which up-regulates glycolysis in macrophages  , resulted in an increase in NADH levels  and an increase in lactate secretion  . GB111-NH2 treatment completely blocked the lactate and NADH production induced by LPS stimulation , indicating that it directly impaired LPS-induced glycolytic flux  . ATP production was also significantly impaired in LPS-primed BMDM upon GB111-NH2 treatment  . Notably , treatment with the NLRP3 activator nigericin did not reduce NADH levels  , indicating that the metabolic disruption that we observed with GB111-NH2 is not a general feature of inflammasome activation and cell death . The GAPDH and α-enolase inhibitors KA and EB also affected metrics of glycolytic flux  . Finally , GB111-NH2 suppressed the increase in extracellular acidification rate  induced by glucose stimulation  . 2DG , a glycolytic inhibitor that targets hexokinase , did not dramatically impair glycolytic flux  and did not induce inflammasome formation  . This indicates that severe limitation of glycolytic flux is required to activate the NLRP3 inflammasome . Furthermore , these results are in accord with recent studies showing that inhibiting GAPDH , and not enzymes in upper glycolysis , is flux-limiting in highly glycolytic cells  . Inhibitors of the TCA cycle and pentose-phosphate pathways  , carbohydrate metabolism pathways that are closely tied to glycolysis , also had no effect on lactate secretion or NADH production in LPS-primed BMDM and did not induce IL-1β secretion  . Inhibition of glycolytic flux creates a unique metabolic defect that activates the NLRP3 inflammasome . BMDM were stimulated with LPS or vehicle for 3 hr and then the indicated compounds for 2 hr , after which cytosolic NAD+/NADH ratio was measured . BMDM were treated as in  and supernatants were analyzed for lactate production . BMDM were stimulated with LPS or vehicle for 3 hr and then with the indicated compounds for 2 hr , after which cytosolic NAD+/NADH was measured . BMDM were treated as in  and cytosolic ATP concentration analyzed by ATP-coupled luminescence assay . ECAR was measured in BMDM upon addition of fresh glucose-containing medium . Fresh medium contained vehicle  or 10 μM GB111-NH2 -/+ 1 mM pyruvate  . A dose of nigericin that induces cell death with similar kinetics to GB111-NH2 does not effect NADH production . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with nigericin  or GB111-NH2  for the indicated amounts of time  % LDH release was measured to assess the extent of cell death . NADH production was measured in cell lysates . 2DG does not dramatically impair glycolytic flux or induce inflammasome formation . Lactate production from 2-deoxyglucose  –treated LPS-primed BMDM was measured . BMDM were treated as in  and analyzed for cytosolic NAD+/NADH . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with GB111-NH2  or 2DG  for 2 hr and labeled with AWP28 . BMDM were then fixed , stained for ASC and with DAPI , and inflammasome foci were quantified . 015 We hypothesized that , due to the dependence of macrophages on glycolytic metabolism  , disruption of this pathway would create a metabolic signal that is responsible for activating NLRP3 . We hypothesized that supplementation of downstream metabolites of glycolysis would restore partial metabolic function and block the NLRP3-activating signal . When we cultured GB111-NH2-treated BMDMs with cell-permeable versions of the terminal metabolite of glycolysis , pyruvate , or the TCA cycle metabolite succinate , we observed a dramatic reduction in the number of inflammasome foci that formed  . A structurally related metabolite , lactate , which does not fuel the TCA cycle , did not reduce GB111-NH2-induced NLRP3 inflammasome formation  . Complete removal of L-glutamine from media sensitized BMDM to GB111-NH2-induced inflammasome formation  . Taken together , this indicates that levels of glycolytic products that fuel downstream metabolism mediate inflammasome induction in response to glycolytic disruption . Addition of metabolites downstream of glycolysis prevents NLRP3 inflammasome activation induced by glycolytic disruption . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with GB111-NH2 for 2 hr in the presence of pyruvate  or cell-permeable esters of lactate  and succinate  . Cells were fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and inflammasome foci/nuclei quantified . BMDM were primed with LPS and then treated with 10 μM GB111-NH2 for 2 hr in the presence of the indicated concentrations of L-glutamine or succinate . Cells were fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and quantified by microscopy . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated compounds in the presence or absence of pyruvate and analyzed as in  . BMDM were treated as in  and supernatants were analyzed for IL-1β by ELISA . BMDM were treated as in  and cell death was measured by LDH release . BMDM were treated with the indicated inhibitors , stained for ASC and DAPI , and quantified by microscopy as in  . BMDM were treated with GB111-NH2 for 2 hr in the presence or absence of pyruvate  , after which cytosolic NAD+/NADH was measured . BMDM were treated as in  and cytosolic ATP measured by ATP-coupled luminescence assay . 016 In addition to preventing inflammasome formation , supplementation of the glycolytic product pyruvate resulted in significant reductions in caspase-1 activation , IL-1β secretion , and cell death induced by GB111-NH2 . Pyruvate supplementation had no effect on inflammasome signaling induced by the NLRP3 activators ATP and nigericin  , indicating that pyruvate does not impair NLRP3 inflammasome signaling by a nonspecific mechanism . Pyruvate treatment also blocked inflammasome formation induced by KA and EB  and restored NADH and ATP production in the treated cells  . We hypothesized that changes in the NAD+/NADH ratio or a drop in ATP concentration could serve as a secondary signal that connects glycolytic disruption to NLRP3 inflammasome formation . We first treated LPS-primed BMDM with GB111-NH2 and pyruvate to block glycolysis and stimulate downstream metabolism . Rotenone treatment suppressed inflammasome formation more than pyruvate alone . Interestingly , rotenone treatment was sufficient to completely abrogate inflammasome formation induced by GB111-NH2  , conditions under which we also observed a significant decrease in the NAD+/NADH ratio  . These data suggest that the inability to produce NADH , and not ATP , is predictive of NLRP3 inflammasome formation upon glycolytic disruption by GB111-NH2 . It should be noted , however , that the α-enolase inhibitor EB did not induce a significant NAD+/NADH ratio defect  , suggesting that either EB induces inflammasome activation through a distinct mechanism from GB111-NH2 and KA , or that there are additional universal signals responsible for inflammasome activation downstream of glycolytic disruption . NAD+/NADH ratio elevation and mitochondrial ROS accumulation are signals for NLRP3 inflammasome formation downstream of glycolytic disruption . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with the indicated compounds  for 2 hr , after which cells were fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and visualized by microscopy . Cells were treated as in  and cytosolic NAD+/NADH measured . Cells were treated as in  and cytosolic ATP measured by ATP-coupled luminescence assay . % Cells with ASC foci values from  are plotted against NAD+/NADH values from  . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with vehicle or 10 μM GB111-NH2 in the presence or absence of 5 μM rotenone for 2 hr . Cells were fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and analyzed by microscopy . Cells were treated as in  and cytosolic NAD+/NADH analyzed . BMDM were treated with 10 μM GB111-NH2 or vehicle in the presence or absence of 1 mM pyruvate  and stained with MitoSOX  . LPS-primed BMDMs were treated with GB111-NH2 in the presence or absence of 4-hydroxyTEMPO  . BMDM were treated with nigericin  or GB111-NH2  in Ringer’s buffer with increasing concentrations of K+ . Cells were fixed , stained for ASC and DAPI , and inflammasome foci/nuclei quantified . ATP concentration does not correlate with inflammasome numbers . K+ efflux is not required for GB111-NH2-induced pyroptotic cell death . BMDM were treated with nigericin  or GB111-NH2  in Ringer’s buffer with increasing concentrations of K+ . After 3 hr , cell death was assessed by measuring % LDH release . 019 Mitochondrial ROS and K+ efflux are proposed to be unifying signals preceding NLRP3 inflammasome formation  . Therefore , we wanted to determine whether either of these signals is relevant to NLRP3 inflammasome activation induced by disruption of glycolysis . We stained BMDM with MitoSOX , a dye that reports accumulation of mitochondrial ROS , and observed that GB111-NH2 induced an increase in cellular MitoSOX fluorescence that was abrogated by addition of pyruvate  . We also found that the ROS scavenger 4-hydroxyTEMPO  prevented GB111-NH2-induced caspase-1 cleavage and activation  . Addition of extracellular K+ , in contrast , did not reduce the number of inflammasome foci in GB111-NH2-treated BMDMs  or impair GB111-NH2-induced cell death  , indicating that mitochondrial ROS , but not K+ efflux , is required for GB111-NH2-induced NLRP3 activation and pyroptosis . We and others have shown that the intracellular pathogen Salmonella typhimurium  requires glucose and its own glycolytic enzymes for intracellular replication  . typhimurium requires the NLRC4 and NLRP3 inflammasomes  . typhimurium flagellin and type 3 secretion system proteins activate NLRC4 via NAIP proteins  , the mechanism by which NLRP3 is activated is not well understood . typhimurium infection may stimulate NLRP3 through disruption of host cell metabolic pathways by co-opting cellular resources during intracellular replication . To test this notion , we infected naïve BMDM with S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase  . In this infection model , inflammasome complexes begin forming at ~11 hr post-infection and progressively accumulate . typhimurium or S . typhimurium lacking the SPI-1 secretion system  induced inflammasome formation  . In addition , the percentage of cells with ASC foci was similar in magnitude to GB111-NH2 and alum treatment but lower than nigericin , ATP , or log phase S . typhimurium stimulation  . typhimurium utilize host-cell glucose by culturing infected BMDM with the fluorescent glucose analog 2- ( N-  amino ) -2-deoxyglucose  . We lysed infected BMDM at 5 hr post-infection  , harvested the bacterial fraction of BMDM lysates , and measured 2-NBDG fluorescence . We also fixed uninfected and infected 2-NBDG-treated BMDM and analyzed the pattern of 2-NBDG fluorescence by confocal microscopy . typhimurium and colocalize with Hoechst stain  in infected BMDM . Furthermore , we quantified the portions of cytosol that were not Hoechst-positive and observed a significant decrease in 2-NDBG fluorescence in the cytosol of infected BMDM compared to uninfected BMDM  . typhimurium derive glucose from host macrophages and reduce host glucose availability . Salmonella typhimurium disrupts host cell glycolysis . BMDMs were infected with S . typhimurium strain SL1344 grown to stationary phase and infected at the indicated multiplicity of infection  . At the indicated timepoints , cells were fixed and stained for ASC and DAPI . Inflammasome foci/nuclei were quantified . BMDM were infected with △orgA  S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase . Cells were treated with the indicated compounds or infected with S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase  or log phase  . Cells were fixed , stained for ASC , and ASC foci/nuclei were quantified . BMDM were infected with 100:1 MOI stationary phase S . typhimurium for 5 hr . BMDM were treated as in  , fixed , stained for DAPI , and visualized by confocal microscopy . BMDMs were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium and analyzed for cytosolic NAD+/NADH . △NAD+/NADH indicates the difference between the ratio measured at 11 hr and 5 hr post-infection . BMDMs were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium and levels of lactate in the supernatant analyzed at the indicated timepoints . Quantification of the difference between lactate secretion measured at 11 hr and 5 hr post-infection . 020 We measured glycolytic flux in infected BMDM to assess the effect of limited glucose availability on the host macrophages . Importantly , as observed for GB111-NH2 treatment , we observed reduced production of NADH and lactate  that correlated with the multiplicity of infection and magnitude of inflammasome formation in host cells  . These metabolic defects appeared on a similar timescale as initiation of NLRP3 inflammasome formation , suggesting that infection with S . typhimurium has a direct effect on glycolytic flux in host cells . Consistent with our findings using glycolytic inhibitors , we also observed that supplementation of cells with the glycolytic end product pyruvate significantly reduced inflammasome formation , IL-1β secretion , and cell death induced by S . typhimurium infection  . Pyruvate was effective at blocking inflammasome formation in BMDMs infected with both wildtype S . typhimurium and S . typhimurium defective for the SPI-1 secretion system  . Notably , pyruvate did not completely block ASC focus formation , IL-1β secretion , and death induced by S . typhimurium infection , which could be due to compensatory activation of other inflammasomes such as the non-canonical caspase-11 inflammasome  , or because S . typhimurium could also partially co-opt host pyruvate . Disruption of glycolysis by Salmonella typhimurium activates the NLRP3 inflammasome . BMDMs were infected with S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase in the presence or absence of 1 mM pyruvate and  cells were fixed and stained for ASC and DAPI . IL-1β secretion was analyzed by ELISA ,  Cell death was measured by LDH release . White arrowheads indicate inflammasome foci . BMDM of the indicated genetic backgrounds were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium  in the presence or absence of pyruvate . Inflammasome foci were quantified at 17 hr post-infection . BMDMs were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium 12 , 023  expressing a replication plasmid . BMDMs were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium 12 , 023  constitutively expressing EGFP . Cells were fixed at 17 hr post-infection , stained for ASC , and infection visualized by confocal microscopy . typhimurium . Cytosolic NAD+/NADH was analyzed at 5 and 11 hr post infection with S . typhimurium  or vehicle  in the presence or absence of 1 mM pyruvate  . NAD+ consumption rate indicates the difference in NAD+/NADH ratio between 5 and 11 hr post-infection . Pyruvate prevents S . typhimurium-induced inflammasome formation in a dose-dependent manner . BMDM were infected with stationary phase S . typhimurium in the presence of increasing concentrations of pyruvate and inflammasome foci quantified . BMDM were infected with △orgA  S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase at 25:1 MOI in the presence or absence of 1 mM pyruvate . Inflammasome foci were quantified at 14 hr post-infection . Inflammasome formation and cell death induced by log phase S . typhimurium infection are unaffected by pyruvate . BMDM were infected with S . typhimurium grown to log phase  in the presence or absence of pyruvate and inflammasome foci were quantified after 1 hr . BMDMs were treated as in  and cell death was quantified by LDH release at the indicated timepoints . 023 We did not observe inflammasome focus formation in Nlrp3 -/- BMDMs upon infection with stationary phase S . typhimurium . In contrast , Nlrc4 -/- BMDMs had a similar number of inflammasome foci upon infection as wildtype macrophages  . Pyruvate did not prevent inflammasome formation or cell death induced by infection with S . typhimurium in log phase growth  , an infection model that activates the NLRC4 inflammasome . We also verified that pyruvate was not blocking inflammasome formation by inhibition of bacterial replication using both an intracellular replication reporter plasmid  and by monitoring bacterial replication by microscopy  . typhimurium are viable in BMDM cultured in DMEM with or without pyruvate  . typhimurium infection and induce a pro-inflammatory response via NLRP3 inflammasome formation and pyroptotic cell death . The inflammasome is a multiprotein complex that forms in response to various pathogen- and danger-associated signals . Formation of the inflammasome leads to processing and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines to activate the immune system  . In this study , we used a small molecule , GB111-NH2 , to identify two glycolytic enzymes that regulate inflammasome formation . When functionally blocked , innate immune cells sense metabolic perturbation as a danger signal , resulting in inflammasome formation , caspase-1 activation , and cytokine secretion . Our results using this molecule and other established inhibitors of these enzymes suggest that disrupting glycolytic flux serves as a trigger for inflammation and cell death in macrophages . Disturbance of glycolytic flux by the intracellular pathogen S . typhimurium similarly results in inflammasome formation and pyroptotic cell death in an effort to clear the pathogen . Restoration of metabolism downstream of glycolytic disruption by GB111-NH2 or S . typhimurium infection was sufficient to abrogate the inflammasome response by restoring NADH production and preventing mitochondrial ROS production . Under similar conditions , we also observed that targeting GAPDH or enzymes in lower glycolysis is sufficient to disrupt glycolytic flux and activate the NLRP3 inflammasome . Conversely , targeting entry into glycolysis using 2DG was not sufficient to disrupt glycolysis in highly glycolytic cells , as has previously been reported  , or to activate NLRP3 . Disruption of glycolytic flux led to an NAD+/NADH imbalance and induced mitochondrial ROS accumulation , which has been shown here and elsewhere  to activate the NLRP3 inflammasome  . Model of NLRP3 inflammasome activation induced by disruption of glycolytic flux . typhimurium and chemical inhibitors disrupt glycolytic flux in LPS-primed BMDM , resulting in an increase in NAD+/NADH , a decrease in ATP production , and a decrease in lactate secretion . Mitochondrial ROS are produced by glycolytic disruption and trigger NLRP3 inflammasome formation , IL-1β production , and pyroptosis . 024 During infection with S . typhimurium , inflammasome activation is an especially important mechanism of host response because , though it kills the host cell , it initiates inflammatory signals that activate the immune system and combat infection  . Two inflammasome complexes , NLRP3 and NLRC4 , are required to fully combat infection  . The NLRC4 inflammasome responds to a clear pathogen-associated molecular pattern presented by S . typhimurium—cytosolic flagellin and type 3 secretion system components  . Here , we provide evidence that NLRP3 activation results in response to another effect of S . typhimurium colonization of the host cell , namely disruption of host cell glycolytic metabolism . typhimurium defective for the TCA cycle enzyme aconitase induce a more rapid NLRP3-dependent immune response in vivo  . typhimurium to rely even more heavily on glycolysis to survive within the host . typhimurium mutants would likely disrupt cellular glycolysis more quickly and thus activate NLRP3 more rapidly . typhimurium infection , the bacteria preferentially resides within alternatively activated or ‘M2’ macrophages , which primarily utilize oxidative metabolism rather than glycolysis  . We speculate that , since glucose metabolism is often impaired in these diseases , glycolytic impairment may be the mechanism driving NLRP3-dependent inflammation . In summary , our results suggest that inhibition of glycolysis creates a unique metabolic state that activates the NLRP3 inflammasome . They suggest that innate immune cells sense perturbed metabolite production and flux through the glycolytic pathway , in turn activating NLRP3 to initiate inflammatory responses . Inhibitors of flux-limiting enzymes and S . typhimurium effectively limited glycolysis through distinct mechanisms , each resulting in NLRP3-mediated inflammasome formation and pyroptosis . Glycolytic disruption may be a broadly relevant mechanism of NLRP3 activation triggered in response to metabolic parasitism by microbes . See below for synthesis and characterization of GB111-NH2 and analogs . Strains used in this study were Salmonella typhimurium NCTC 12023 and ATCC SL1344 . Mice lacking Pycard , Nlrp3 , Nlrc4 , and Aim2 have been previously described  . After 5 days , the cell monolayer was washed several times with sterile PBS to remove cell debris and then the BMDM harvested using CellStripper  . BMDM were then plated for experiments , frozen , or cultured for up to a week . BMDM were primed with 100 ng/mL LPS-EK  or LPS 0111:B4  in DMEM for 3 hr before addition of inflammasome activating agents . GB111-NH2 was added to LPS-primed BMDM at 10 μM  for inflammasome activation . The canonical NLRP3 activators ATP and nigericin were added to LPS-primed BMDM at 5 mM and 12 . For stationary phase infections , S . typhimurium grown to stationary phase  were centrifuged onto BMDM for 10min at 500g . For log phase infections , S . typhimurium in log phase growth  were centrifuged onto BMDM for 10min at 500g in antibiotic-free DMEM . For cell lysates: anti-caspase-1 p10  , anti-HSP-90  , anti-NLRP3  , anti-α-tubulin  , anti-GAPDH  , anti-α-enolase  . For cell supernatant: anti-IL-1β  . After this , az-GB  was added for 2 hr at 37°C . TAMRA-alkyne was then added under previously described Click reaction conditions  to visualize az-GB-labeled protein . For ECAR measurements , BMDM were analyzed using a Seahorse XF96 Analyzer . On the day prior to the assay 8x103 BMDM were plated per well of a 96-well Seahorse Analyzer plate . The fluorescent glucose analog 2-NBDG  was used to monitor glucose uptake by both infected and uninfected BMDM . BMDM were infected with SL1344 Salmonella typhimurium grown to stationary phase at an MOI of 100:1 . After 1 hr , BMDM were washed with plain DMEM and then incubated in DMEM with low gentamicin and 10 μM 2-NBDG . In the infected condition , cytosol was identified as areas proximal to nuclei that were not Salmonella typhimurium  . typhimurium , after 7 hr of infection BMDM were lysed in 0 . Salmonella typhimurium  expressing a replication plasmid were grown overnight in LB containing 0 . BMDM were plated in 12-well dishes at 500 k cells/well and infected with Salmonella typhimurium strain NCTC 12 , 023 at MOI 25:1 . At 12 , 16 , and 24 hr post-infection , BMDM were lysed and bacterial samples analyzed by flow cytometry . typhimurium were grown in MgM-MES minimal media supplemented with 2 mM glucose , 2 mM pyruvate , or vehicle  . BMDM were plate in 12-well dishes , primed for 3 hr with 100 ng/mL LPS , and then stimulated in the presence or absence of pyruvate . BMDM were labeled for the last 15min of treatment with 2 . >25 , 000 cells were analyzed per condition . LPS-primed BMDM were treated with NLRP3-activating compound in Ringer’s buffer with varying concentrations of K+ . The product NR-GB111 was cleaved from the Rink resin using 95% TFA , 2 . 55 mg  NR-GB111  were afforded as a white powder . 68 mg  of white crystalline solid , GB-IA  . 
PALB2 coordinates functions of BRCA1 and BRCA2 during homology-directed repair  and interacts with several chromatin proteins . In addition to protein scaffold function , PALB2 binds DNA . We identified a major DNA-binding site of PALB2 , mutations in which reduce RAD51 foci formation and the overall HDR efficiency in cells by 50% . PALB2 N-terminal DNA-binding domain  stimulates the function of RAD51 recombinase . Surprisingly , it possesses the strand exchange activity without RAD51 . Our data reveal a versatile DNA interaction property of PALB2 and demonstrate a critical role of PALB2 DNA binding for chromosome repair in cells . The Partner and Localizer of BRCA2  protein was discovered as a protein forming a complex with BRCA2 and regulating BRCA2 activity  . Like BRCA proteins , PALB2 is an essential mammalian protein linked to a similar spectrum of cancers and Fanconi anemia  . The PALB2 C-terminal WD40 domain interacts with BRCA2  while the N-terminus forms a complex with BRCA1  . The latter localizes at double-stranded DNA break  sites at earlier stage of repair , inhibiting an alternative pathway of non-homologous end joining and initiating homology-directed repair  through recruitment of PALB2/BRCA2/RAD51  . PALB2 is often described as the hub for a network of tumor suppressors  . PALB2 binds MRG15 protein , a component of histone acetyltransferase-deacetylase complexes  ; RAD51 and its paralogs RAD51C , RAD51AP1 and XRCC3  ; translesion DNA polymerase η  during recombination-associated DNA synthesis  ; an oxidative stress response protein KEAP1  ; and RNF168 ubiquitin ligase  . Furthermore , PALB2 is an RMP itself as it promotes the assembly of RAD51-ssDNA presynaptic nucleofilaments in the absence of BRCA2 in vitro  . PALB2 recruits Polη to DSB sites and stimulates recombination-associated DNA synthesis by Polη  . Apart from protein-protein interaction domains , BRCA1 , −2 and PALB2 proteins also contain DNA binding domains  , the function of which is poorly understood  . Recently , studies of BRCA1/BARD1 complex interaction with DNA and RAD51 led to the discovery of the BRCA1/BARD1 role in RAD51-mediated strand invasion and D-loop formation  . Most missense mutations in the BRCA2 DBD are pathogenic  . Disruption of DNA binding in a BRCA2 truncation variant lacking the PALB2-binding motif leads to a significant HDR reduction  . However , deletion of the BRCA2 DBD has a negligible effect when interaction with PALB2 is preserved , highlighting the functional importance of the previously reported DNA-binding property of PALB2  . Two truncation fragments of PALB2 , T1  and T3  , bind DNA  . For example , PALB2 truncation of 500 amino acids situated between the BRCA1 and BRCA2 binding motifs and containing both DBDs does not support BRCA2 and RAD51 foci formation in cells during DNA damage  . Since both the BRCA1-binding N-terminal and the BRCA2-interacting WD40 C-terminal domains are retained in this mutant , the results points to the potential importance of DBDs in PALB2 function . In the current study , we identified a major DBD of PALB2  and specific amino acids involved in DNA binding . PALB2 N-DBD by itself stimulates RAD51 strand exchange reactions . Surprisingly , we found that the PALB2 N-DBD supports both forward and inverse strand exchange even in the absence of RAD51 and can use RNA as a substrate . Altogether , our data reveal a novel activity of PALB2 and highlight the importance of PALB2 DNA binding in chromosome maintenance . We identified major DNA-binding residues of PALB2 and demonstrated their critical role for HDR in cells . PALB2 is described as a scaffold protein linking BRCA1 with BRCA2 during HDR and interacting with many other chromatin proteins . However , the truncation variant with the preserved BRCA1 and BRCA2 binding motifs but without the middle portion of the protein , which contains DBDs , does not support BRCA2 and RAD51 recruitment to DSBs  . Recent studies suggest an alternative BRCA1-independent recruitment of PALB2 to DSB through direct interaction with RNF168  . A critical role of PALB2 DNA binding was also suggested by studies of the BRCA2  , where the ‘miniBRCA2’ construct , including only DBDs with two BRC repeats , was 3–4 times less efficient than ‘midiBRCA2’ which includes PALB2 interaction motif . Moreover , interaction with PALB2 alleviates the requirement of BRCA2 DNA binding , including a deletion of the entire BRCA2 DBD . Here , we demonstrate that mutation of only four DNA-binding residues of PALB2 reduces both RAD51 foci and overall HDR efficiency by 50% in the presence of endogenous BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Even at 8 hr post-IR siRNA PALB2 cells complemented with PALB2-146AAAA still display a defect in HR . Therefore , PALB2 interaction with DNA is critical for recruitment of the BRCA2 and RAD51 to DSB sites and efficient DNA repair in cells . Secondly , we demonstrate that the PALB2 N-DBD stimulates RAD51-mediated strand exchange in vitro . N-DBD encompasses the RAD51 binding site , therefore , it can recruit RAD51 to ssDNA to initiate nucleation of nucleoprotein filament . DNA-binding of N-DBD plays a critical role in this process , as the DNA-binding mutant  retains interaction with RAD51  but is unable to stimulate RAD51 binding to ssDNA  . Alternatively , the PALB2 N-DBD can support a DNA conformation favourable for RAD51 binding to ssDNA or/and nucleation of RAD51 filament , similarly to the prokaryotic RecOR proteins  . The most unexpected finding is the ability of PALB2 to stimulate strand exchange between homologous ss- and dsDNA fragments in the absence of recombinase . This process is protein-specific and is not a consequence of simple DNA melting and reannealing of separated strands in solution , since the PALB2 N-DBD does not unwind the DNA helix and promotes DNA annealing . PALB2-mediated strand exchange differs from that of supported by RAD51 , as it does not require ATP binding and hydrolysis and it is less efficient and not unidirectional . This reaction resembles that of the RAD52  . In the cited manuscript , RAD52 promotes inverse reaction much more efficiently than forward and seemingly faster than that by PALB2 in our hands . The reaction with a no-tail substrate appears to be less efficient than the one supported by PALB2 . PALB2-mediated reactions are slower with no difference between forward and inverse reactions . The PALB2 N-DBD interacts with both ss- and dsDNA . Previously , we demonstrated that PALB2 immobilized on ssDNA beads efficiently pulls down non-homologous dsDNA  . It is unclear whether ss- and dsDNA substrates are bound to the same sites of different subunits of a PALB2 oligomer or two different DNA binding sites on the same monomer . We can speculate that binding of dsDNA to more than one monomer in PALB2 oligomer can trigger DNA helix distortion . Thus , PALB2 shares several specific structural and DNA-interaction features with both RecA/RAD51 and Rad52 proteins and supports a protein-specific strand exchange reaction . At the same time , PALB2 does not support D-loop formation with supercoiled dsDNA opposite to a full length PALB2 . It is important to note one distinct feature of the PALB2 N-DBD: the secondary structure prediction  suggests a different folding of the N-DBD fragment than that of RecA-like domains or a Rad52 . Therefore , PALB2 N-DBD represents a novel structural fold that supports strand exchange . While the functional significance of this property remains to be investigated , it further supports the involvement of PALB2 in specific DNA transactions during HDR , similar to the involvement of BRCA1/BARD1 in D-loop formation  . It was shown that both PALB2 and BRCA2 stimulate Polη DNA synthesis within a D-loop substrate in vitro through the recruitment of the polymerase to the invading strand in the D-loop  . Interestingly , DNA synthesis was more efficient in the presence of PALB2 than BRCA2 , while both proteins were shown be equally efficient in recruiting polymerase to DSB sites . PALB2 strand exchange may contribute to other steps of HDR such as second-end capture  . Interestingly , PALB2  and BRCA2  are involved in replication-dependant removal of interstrand DNA crosslinks associated with Fanconi anemia  . The strand exchange function of PALB2 may also be important for alternative DNA repair pathways . Indeed , PALB2 supports strand exchange not only with ssDNA , but with ssRNA substrates , and can be involved in transcription-initiated DNA repair . An equilibrium dissociation constant was calculated with Prism software using one to one binding scheme , P+= , where D is DNA and P is PALB2 . PALB2 was added with final concentration between 4000 and 15 . D-loop buffer  , containing 1 µM of radiolabelled oligonucleotide JYM1413  was incubated for 5 min at 37°C with the indicated concentration of RAD51 or PALB2-T1 fragment . Knockdown of PALB2 was performed 18 hr later with 50 nM PALB2 siRNA  using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX  . After a release of 9 hr , PALB2 silenced cells were complemented using transfection with the indicated YFP constructs using Lipofectamine 2000 . Knockdown of PALB2  was performed 6–8 hr later using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX  . 1 μg of iRFP670 and 1 μg of pcDNA3 empty vector or the Flag-PALB2 constructs , and 20 nM of each siRNA were added . HEK293T were plated to 80% confluency and transfected with YFP-CTL , YFP-PALB2 or YFP-PALB2-146AAAA vector using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX Reagent  . peYFP-C1-PALB2 was modified to be resistant to PALB2 siRNA by Q5 Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit  using primers JYM3892/3893  . The resulting siRNA-resistant construct was then used as a template to generate the mutant construct YFP-PALB2 146AAAA with the primers JYM3909/JYM3910 . Flag-tagged PALB2 146AAAA mutant was also obtained via site-directed mutagenesis on pcDNA3-Flag PALB2  . 
Filaments of all actin-like proteins known to date are assembled from pairs of protofilaments that are arranged in a parallel fashion , generating polarity . In this study , we show that the prokaryotic actin homologue MreB forms pairs of protofilaments that adopt an antiparallel arrangement in vitro and in vivo . We provide an atomic view of antiparallel protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB as apparent from crystal structures . We show that a protofilament doublet is essential for MreB's function in cell shape maintenance and demonstrate by in vivo site-specific cross-linking the antiparallel orientation of MreB protofilaments in E . coli . 3D cryo-EM shows that pairs of protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB tightly bind to membranes . Crystal structures of different nucleotide and polymerisation states of Caulobacter MreB reveal conserved conformational changes accompanying antiparallel filament formation . Finally , the antimicrobial agents A22/MP265 are shown to bind close to the bound nucleotide of MreB , presumably preventing nucleotide hydrolysis and destabilising double protofilaments . Shape in eukaryotic cells is provided by the cytoskeleton that consists of actin , tubulin , and intermediate filaments . In non-spherical bacteria , the actin homologue MreB  is essential for shape maintenance as depletion of MreB through genetic knockouts or MreB-targeted drug treatment results in misshapen cells that eventually lyse  . Incorrect localisation of MreB adversely affects polar targeting of protein complexes and , in some organisms , chromosome segregation  . Vital for MreB's role in cell shape determination is the interaction with the elongasome , the protein complex orchestrating peptidoglycan cell wall morphogenesis . The existence of helical , cytomotive bundles of MreB originally observed along the length of rod-shaped cells  has been questioned by recent light microscopy studies that suggest MreB forms discontinuous fibres underneath the cell membrane that are driven by the elongasome itself  . The MreB fibres are attached to the cell membrane via a hydrophobic loop in Thermotoga maritima as well as Gram+ bacteria and via an additional N-terminal amphipathic helix in Gram− bacteria  . The tendency of purified MreB from Gram− bacteria to aggregate can be attributed to the presence of these hydrophobic sequences . Hence , previous biochemical and structural work has focussed on MreB from T . coli MreB  or B . subtilis MreB  . MreB assembles into straight , double protofilaments in the presence of ATP or GTP and these can gather laterally into sheets  . Although the architecture of a single protofilament is surprisingly conserved within the actin family of proteins  , the assembly of protofilaments into higher order structures differs greatly  . The overall architecture has implications for filament polarity , which affects differential growth of the filament ends and directional movement . Presumably , the membrane-binding ability of MreB and FtsA constrains their filament architecture to straight  , rather than helical , pairs of protofilaments . But how are these filaments arranged ? Here , we demonstrate that MreB from Caulobacter crescentus forms pairs of antiparallel protofilaments as revealed by crystal structures , an architecture unprecedented among actin-like proteins . The antiparallel arrangement ensures that the amphipathic helix of each protofilament binds to membranes as shown by cryo-electron microscopy  . Pairs of protofilaments are essential for cell shape maintenance in Escherichia coli and these are shown to be oriented in an antiparallel fashion by in vivo cross-linking . The mechanism for protofilament formation of C . crescentus MreB is elucidated by crystallography and shown to be reminiscent of that of other actin-like proteins , revealing the typical domain closure upon polymerisation . Finally , co-crystallisation studies of Caulobacter MreB with the antimicrobial reagents A22 and MP265 explain their inhibitory mechanism and shed light on the activation mechanism of ATP hydrolysis during polymerisation . Structural insight into MreB from mesophilic bacteria has been hampered by the tendency of the proteins to aggregate upon purification , but through biochemical and bioengineering tools sufficient quantities of stable versions of Caulobacter crescentus MreB were obtained  that were amenable to structural studies . The crystal structure of Caulobacter MreB  reveals the typical actin fold , containing two domains on either side of a nucleotide binding cleft  . But even this domain is very similar in both Caulobacter MreB and Thermotoga maritima MreB  , superimposing with an RMSD of 0 . The protofilament architecture is also very well conserved , with an identical subunit repeat distance of 51 . 1 Å and a similar arrangement of the longitudinal interface  . However , only single protofilaments were present in the Thermotoga MreB crystals , despite the fact that electron microscopy images clearly show doublets  . In contrast , the crystals of Caulobacter MreB contain doublets that , remarkably , crystallised in an antiparallel arrangement  . The electrostatic surface potential of the double protofilaments reveals the hydrophobic loop and the basic charges surrounding the membrane-binding site  . 003Caulobacter crescentus MreB  CcMreBM1-CcMreB-A347 ΔCcMreBhM-I9-CcMreB-A347-GSHHHHHH ΔCcMreBdhM-I9-CcMreB  -A347-GSHHHHHH ΔCcMreBdmhM-I9-CcMreB  -A347-GSHHHHHHThermotoga maritima MreB1  TmMreBM1-TmMreB-G336 TmMreBhM1-TmMreB-G336-GSHHHHHH10 . Comparison between crystal structures from Caulobacter crescentus and T . maritima MreB . The crystal structure of C . crescentus MreB  superimposes on that of T . The active site is located in the interdomain cleft and has AMPPNP  and Mg2+  bound to ΔCcMreBdh . The hydrophobic loop  is shown for TmMreB and is not ordered in ΔCcMreBdh  . Electrostatic surface potential of an antiparallel protofilament of C . crescentus MreB shown from side view , where it binds to the membrane . Crystals containing antiparallel protofilaments of ΔCcMreBh were soaked in ATPγS . Front view of a protofilament from T . maritima MreB and C . crescentus MreB . Crystals containing TmMreBh protofilaments  have the same subunit repeat as those from ΔCcMreBdh  . The standard deviation is calculated based on 7 crystal structures containing protofilaments of C . crescentus MreB  . Side view of a single protofilament of T . maritima MreB  and double protofilaments from ΔCcMreBdh  arranged in an antiparallel fashion  . Sequence alignment between MreB from C . crescentus  , E . coli  , and T . maritima  . Schematic showing lack of polarity at filament ends in an MreB filament . Two antiparallel protofilaments;  Top and bottom ends of antiparallel MreB filament having the same surface;  Top  and bottom  end of a parallel filament , such as F-actin or ParM , showing distinctive ends . 006 Full-length , untagged MreB from C . crescentus  binds to a lipid monolayer as a double protofilament as shown by negative stain electron microscopy  , similarly to TmMreB  . 2D averaging of images of negatively stained filaments shows double protofilaments interacting with their flat sides  , which coincides with other , double-helical actin-like protein filaments  . Although the resolution is low , the entire double protofilament structure of ΔCcMreBdh fits nicely into the 2D averaged EM images with a longitudinal subunit repeat of 5 . 5 nm  . The previously reported placement of two single protofilaments of TmMreB into 2D averaged filaments , though merely an educated guess at that time  , turned out to be right . By introducing a single point mutation in the interprotofilament interface of CcMreB  , single protofilaments are formed as shown by negative stain EM  . Pairs of protofilaments of CcMreB distort liposomes as seen by cryo-EM  and coat the membrane extensively  . The irregular arrangement of CcMreB filaments on liposomes makes it unsuitable for subtomogram averaging . These tubes remain straight in the presence of MreB and are suitable for obtaining higher resolution reconstructions revealing a side view that shows how the protein coats the membrane  . Although overall appearances are very similar , TmMreB forms much straighter protofilaments on lipid tubes than CcMreB  , making TmMreB more amenable to subtomogram averaging  . Both 2D and 3D averaging unambiguously show how close an MreB filament sits on the tubes , extending the thickness of the density including the lipid bilayer to 12 . 5 nm  . 1 nm in TmMreB protofilaments . Also , subtomogram averaging clearly demonstrates that membrane binding of MreB distorts the outer , but not the inner leaflet of the lipid bilayer , which is in agreement with the proposed binding mode of TmMreB via a hydrophobic loop . It is not very surprising to us that MreB has not been seen in cells by cryo-EM  , as tomograms of cells are usually taken at rather low magnification and high defocus , leading to a resolution lower than what is needed to resolve the leaflets of the lipid bilayer , let alone , an MreB filament from the protein-embedded membrane . MreB forms double protofilaments on a lipid bilayer and distorts liposomes . Negative stained electron microscopy image of untagged CcMreB double protofilaments assembled on lipid monolayer at 0 . 25 mg/ml in the presence of ATP . Bar: 100 nm . 2D averaging of CcMreB double protofilaments from views similar to the one shown in A . Bar: 7 nm . Scaled double protofilament from the ΔCcMreBh crystal structure  was positioned into the EM density obtained from the 2D averaging . Bar: 7 nm . Negative stained electron microscopy image of untagged CcMreB-V118E single protofilaments assembled on lipid monolayer at 0 . 13 mg/ml in the presence of ATP . Bar: 100 nm . Cryo-EM image of ATP-bound CcMreB  , which distorts liposomes made from E . coli total lipid extract . Negative control showing the membrane of a liposome in the absence of CcMreB . View of a liposome membrane in the presence of ATP-bound CcMreB . OL + CcMreB: outer leaflet with CcMreB . CcMreB distorts vesicles . Tomography of full-length untagged MreB  filaments  bound to vesicles made from E . coli total lipid extract . MreB filaments are clearly seen on both the top and bottom flattened surfaces of the vesicle . MreB binds to one leaflet of the lipid bilayer in the presence of ATP . Bar: 200 nm . Cryo-EM image of a lipid tube . Bar: 20 nm . Cryo-EM image of CcMreB  , TmMreB  on lipid tube at 1 mg/ml . Bar: 20 nm . Cross section view of a lipid tube coated by TmMreB  . Bar: 20 nm . 2D averaging of the edge of TmMreB-coated lipid tubes from views such as those squared in Figure 3D . The longitudinal subunit repeats of ∼5 nm is in agreement with that of the crystal structure  . The lipid bilayer is ∼7 nm and MreB extends the density to a total of ∼12 . 5 nm . Bar: 20 nm . Scaled protofilament from the ΔCcMreBh crystal structure  was positioned into the EM density obtained from 2D averaging . Subtomogram averaging reconstruction of a lipid tube coated with TmMreB . TmMreB filaments on lipid nanotubes . Tomography of full length untagged MreB  filaments  bound to lipid nanotubes . Filaments are straight and run parallel to the long axis of the tubes . 010 A first indication that a doublet of protofilaments is required for MreB's function comes from genetic studies in E . coli  . Cells become rod-shaped and lose their dependency on elevated levels of FtsZ if complemented with a third plasmid carrying a functional copy of mreB under the lac promoter   . This complex genetic set up enables investigation of the phenotype of MreB containing mutations that might render the protein non-functional , since MreB is essential in E . coli . Altered versions of MreB were introduced that carried a mutation disrupting either the intra- or interprotofilament interface  , as deduced from the crystal structure . Indeed , a single mutation in the intra-protofilamant interface renders the protein monomeric as shown by structural analysis of the equivalent mutant S283D in CcMreB  , whereas a single mutation in the interprotofilament interface results in single protofilaments as discussed above  . In the absence of MreB , cells are spherical  , but they revert back to rod shape when expressing wild-type MreB  . When either the intra-  or inter-protofilament  interface is disrupted , cells remain spherical  . These results demonstrate firstly that MreB protofilament formation is essential for cell shape maintenance and secondly that these protofilaments need to interact with their flat sides to make functional MreB filaments . Pairs of MreB protofilaments are essential for cell shape maintenance in E . coli . Schematic diagram showing the genetic set-up to examine cell shape maintenance by intra- and inter-protofilament mutants of MreB . Variants of mreB are expressed from a lac promoter on a third plasmid  . Confocal images of strain FB17/pFB112/pFB124  are shown in the first column , in the absence  and presence  of 250 µM IPTG . Wild-type MreB expressed from plasmid pFB209  complements the strain FB17/pFB112/pFB124  in the presence  , but not in the absence  of 250 µM IPTG . No complementation was observed with MreB that contains a single point mutation in the intra-protofilament interface  or in the inter-protofilament interface  , regardless of the presence or absence of IPTG  . Cell shape distribution shown for strain FB17/pFB112/pFB124  complemented by wild-type MreB  , by intra-protofilament mutant  or by the inter-protofilament mutant  . coli . Structure of antiparallel protofilaments  showing the position of the intra-protofilament mutation S284D  and inter-protofilament mutation V121E  . 011 Thus far we have established that pairs of protofilaments are required for functional MreB in vivo and that these protofilaments interact with their flat sides  . To verify that the antiparallel arrangement of protofilaments observed both in EM and in the crystal structure reflects the functional state of MreB in cells , site-specific cross-linking was performed . Cysteine residues were introduced at specific sites in and outside the protofilament interface and mutated MreB was expressed in the MreB knockout strain as described above . But before that , cysteine residues present in native MreB had to be mutated to serine residues to ensure that any cross-linked product would arise from the newly introduced cysteine  . As shown in Figure 5—figure supplement 1 , the cysteine-free form of MreB fully complemented an mreB knockout strain . As the protofilaments in the antiparallel arrangement are symmetry-related , certain single cysteine locations may produce a cross-linked dimer as long as the distance between the mutated residues is within reach of the cross-linker arm  . As shown in Figure 5 , cross-linked dimers were obtained when cysteine residues were introduced in the protofilament interface  , but not when cysteine residues were located outside this interface  , nor in the absence of any cysteine  . When a pair of cysteine residues was introduced on opposite sides of the antiparallel protofilament interface , stronger bands for the cross-linked dimers were repeatedly obtained than those of the sum of each mutant alone , providing further proof of the antiparallel arrangement  . In vivo cysteine cross-linking of MreB in E . coli . Antiparallel protofilament of ΔCcMreBh  as depicted as a ribbon plot , showing the protofilament interface mutations in bold coloured spheres and the mutations outside the interface in green coloured spheres . Immunoblot after in vivo cross-linking using MreB-specific antibody shows samples from MreB knockout strains ( FB17/pFB112/pFB124  ) supplemented with a cysteine-containing MreB allele  , containing mutation  as indicated above the lanes . A band corresponding to a dimer of MreB occurs with mutants that contain a cysteine in the dimer interface  . No cross-linking product was obtained in mutants that do not have cysteine or contain cysteine residues outside the dimer interface  . Shown is FB17/pFB112/pFB124   complemented by mutated forms of MreB  . 013 The phenotypes of the mutants were analysed at the same time as the cross-linking was performed—at late log phase—a time point previously shown to give good complementation with wild-type MreB  . The cysteine-free mutant of MreB shows good complementation , as do some , but not all of the cysteine mutants  . The lack of complementation of some of the mutants does not correlate with their ability to form filaments , indicating that analysis of the phenotype , which is known to be exquisitely sensitive , does probe more features than can be attributed to MreB polymerisation alone , such as filament dynamics and the interaction with host proteins . To form a detailed picture of the requirements of MreB to polymerise , the full polymerisation cycle of MreB was investigated by X-ray crystallography . Crystal structures of CcMreB in different nucleotide states , either as a monomer or as a polymer , were determined to a resolution better than 2 Å  . Most crystal structures were obtained using ΔCcMreBdh , which behaved biochemically better than the full-length protein , yet was still showing correct filament formation as presented in Figure 6—figure supplement 1 . A single mutation in the intra-protofilament interface  renders the protein monomeric , as shown both by crystallography  and by EM  . From looking at the crystal structures of MreB in different nucleotide states , it immediately becomes apparent that surprisingly small structural changes can trigger MreB polymerisation . Monomeric CcMreB shows little structural movement between the ADP- and the ATP analogue AMPPNP-bound states  with domains I and II overlapping with an RMSD of 1 . This movement progresses into a full propeller twist once it reaches the double protofilament state  . Upon polymerisation , domain IB shows a rotation of 21 . In the AMPPNP protofilament conformation , the active site residues E140 and T167 coordinate a water molecule that is in line for the hydrophilic attack on the gamma phosphate  . In the monomeric state , the active site residue E140 of MreB has moved away from the nucleotide by just 1 Å . Once MreB is in the polymeric state , the presence or absence of nucleotide has very little effect on the overall structure , which is presumably stabilised by inter- and intra-protofilament contacts . Crystal structures of MreB in different nucleotide states reveal a propeller twist . Superposition of crystal structures of C . crescentus MreB in different nucleotide states as listed in Figure 6B show movement in domain I rather than domain II . List of CcMreB crystal structures that occur either as a double or a single filament or as a monomer  , in the presence or absence of nucleotide/inhibitor  . The RMS was calculated relative to the monomeric , AMPPNP-bound form  . Schematic drawing showing the propeller twist in MreB . Superposition of ADP-bound ΔCcMreBdmh  and AMPPNP-bound ΔCcMreBdmh  . Superposition of AMPPNP-bound monomeric ΔCcMreBdmh  and AMPPNP-bound polymeric ΔCcMreBdh  reveals a propeller twist: closing of the nucleotide-binding cleft by the movement of subdomain IB towards subdomain IIB , accompanied by a twist of subdomain IA , resulting of flattening of the molecule  . Zoom into the active site of the superposition of AMPPNP-bound monomeric ΔCcMreBdmh  and AMPPNP-bound polymeric ΔCcMreBdh  . The catalytic site residues E140 and T167 coordinate the attacking water to be in line with the gamma phosphate in filamentous MreB  . In monomeric , AMPPNP-bound MreB , the catalytic E140 moves 1 Å away from the nucleotide and is no longer able to bind to the catalytic water  . ΔCcMreBdh forms filaments as shown here by cryo-EM and a single mutation in the intra-protofilament interface disrupts filament formation  . Low magnification view of ΔCcMreBdmh showing that S283D mutation prevents MreB polymerisation . Low magnification view of ΔCcMreBdh . Arrows show MreB filament bundles , showing that the protein still polymerises . High magnification picture of ΔCcMreBdh polymers containing a longitudinal repeat of ∼5 nm as shown by FFT  . Domain rotations of actin-like proteins MreB , ParM and actin upon adopting the filament conformation . The superposition of the monomeric form  and the polymeric form  is shown . PDB codes: ParM_AMPPNP: 4A61; PaRM_AMMPNP_ParR: 4A62; Actin-ADP_Rhodamine: 1J6Z ; F-actin-ADP:2ZWH . 016 The MreB inhibitor S-  isothiourea  and its less cytotoxic and much more water-soluble derivative MP265 have been used extensively in cell shape studies as they perturb cell morphology reminiscent of an MreB knock-out  . Analyses of revertants that are resistant to A22 suggested that the inhibitor targets the active site of MreB  . Isothermal titration calorimetry experiments were used to acquire binding constants for the inhibitor MP265 and nucleotides that bind to the active site of ΔCcMreBdh . It revealed that ΔCcMreBdh has the highest affinity for ATP  , followed by ADP  and ATPγS  and finally by AMPPNP  . The inhibitor MP265 binds to ΔCcMreBdh with a Kd ∼27 µM and , somewhat surprisingly , its binding affinity increases 20- to 30-fold in the presence of di- and trinucleotide phosphates  . Mechanism of the inhibitory action of A22 and MP265 on MreB . Binding of MP265 to ΔCcMreBdh in the presence of 0 . 5 mM AMPPNP , measured at 25°C  . ITC measurements and curve fits for different nucleotides and MP265 . Black: MP265  ; blue: ADP  ; red: AMPPNP  ; olive: ATP  ; magenta: ATPγS  . Binding decreases as follows: ATP > ADP ∼ ATPγS >> AMPPNP . Note that MP265 binds 20–30 times tighter in the presence of nucleotide , as shown in Figure 7C . ITC measurements and curve fits for MP265 binding in the presence of different nucleotides . Measured at 25°C for the binding of MP265 to ΔCcMreBdh alone  and in the presence of 0 . 5 mM ADP  or 0 . 5 mM AMPPNP  . Solid lines are the fit to data having the following parameters; ΔCcMreBdh and MP265 alone  Kd 27 µM , ΔH −6 kcal/mol; ΔCcMreBdh and MP265 + 0 . 5 mM ADP  Kd 1 . 5 mM AMPPNP  Kd 1 . MP265 binds stronger in the presence of di- and tri-phosphate nucleotides than without . Stereograph of the active site ADP-bound ΔCcMreBdh in complex with inhibitor A22  , showing the anomalous difference correlates well with the positions of nucleotide  and inhibitor A22  . The structure of A22 is shown in the inset  . Superposition of AMPPNP-bound ΔCcMreBdh crystallised as double protofilaments  and AMPPNP-bound ΔCcMreBdh in complex with inhibitor MP265 crystallised as a single protofilament  . Superposition of AMPPNP-bound ΔCcMreBdh crystallised as double protofilaments  and AMPPNP-bound ΔCcMreBdh in complex with inhibitor MP265 crystallised as a single protofilament  . The inhibitor weakens the inter-protofilament interface by displacing the major dimerization helix  . 017 Co-crystallisation of A22 and ΔCcMreBdh shows unambiguously that the inhibitor binds in the presence of ADP  . Because MP265 is much more manageable , co-crystals of MP265 and ΔCcMreBdh were obtained in the presence of both ADP and AMPPNP  . The crystal structures of the complexes show that the inhibitor most likely prevents phosphate release in the MreB protofilament: MP265 blocks the exit channel for the phosphate and binds directly to the active site residue E140 , preventing it from coordinating the catalytic water . Interestingly , crystals containing the MreB-inhibitor complex always contain single , rather than double protofilaments  . A closer look at the inter-protofilament interface explains why double protofilaments can no longer form: as the inhibitor prevents the main dimerisation helix  from reaching into the interface , it causes weakening of the inter-protofilament contacts and likely reduces stability of the double protofilament  . 234cze1 MreB , 1 PO4double filament , emptys_293ΔCcMreBdhP2151 . 204czf1 MreB , 1 MgADPsingle filament , ADPs_2_a96ΔCcMreBdhP2150 . 224czg1 MreB , 1 MgADP , 1 A22single , ADP , A22s_2_i106ΔCcMreBdhP2150 . 234czh1 MreB , 1 MgADP , 1 MP265single , ADP , MP265s_e136ΔCcMreBdhP2152 . 234czj2 MreB , 2 MgAMPPNPdouble , AMPPNPs_3_i235ΔCcMreBdhP21212151 . 254czk1 MreB , 1 MgAMPPNP , 1 MP265single , AMPNP , MP265m_2447ΔCcMreBdmhP3268 . 234czl1 MreB , 1 MgADPmonomeric , ADPm_3452ΔCcMreBdmhP4321267 . 284czm2 MreB , 2 MgAMPPNPmonomeric , AMPPNP*I04-1 , I04 , I03 and I02 beamlines at Diamond Light Source , Harwell , UK . The antiparallel arrangement of protofilaments of C . crescentus MreB as revealed by the crystal structure  and by EM  is unprecedented within the actin family of proteins . It ensures that the amphipathic helix of both protofilaments can bind to the membrane and that both protofilaments are able to interact with bitopic proteins , such as RodZ  . In vivo evidence shows that the antiparallel arrangement is not an in vitro artefact and does indeed reflect the filament architecture in E . coli  . Filament formation could have a synergistic effect on the elongasome by bringing together components that reach a higher local concentration through the interaction with polymeric MreB . Given the almost surprising high degree of similarity between the structures of MreB from mesophilic and thermophilic organisms  , it is expected that the antiparallel arrangement of MreB protofilaments is conserved among the bacterial kingdom . This has far reaching consequences for the molecular mechanism of MreB's function . Actin , MamK , ParM , and the other plasmid-segregating , actin-like proteins form pairs of protofilaments with subunits facing the same direction  . Pairs of parallel ParM protofilaments extend from the ParRC-interacting end  . Discrimination of either end has to be absent in the antiparallel arrangement found in the doublets of MreB protofilaments  and hence MreB filaments must grow and shrink from both ends . The bidirectional movement of MreB filaments in vivo is in agreement with the above hypothesis  . However , previously reported treadmilling of CcMreB molecules through filaments  assumes an overall polarity that , as we show , is absent in the filament . It has to be determined whether MreB filaments fluctuate at a steady state , growing and shrinking from both ends , or exhibit dynamic instability leading to catastrophic disassembly , as described in detail for ParM  . All MreB proteins studied to date by EM appear in pairs rather than isolated single protofilaments , indicating that double protofilaments could be more stable and/or that filament nucleation requires inter-protofilament contacts . In vitro , single CcMreB protofilaments can only be formed upon disruption of the protofilament interface  . In the presence of the antimicrobial agents A22 and MP265 , MreB forms single but no double protofilaments  . By dislocating one of the dimerisation helices and thereby weakening the inter-protofilament interface , the inhibitor might destabilise the MreB filament . This would explain the disruption of MreB filaments by A22 as reported previously  . Association of protofilaments into filaments is unique for each actin-like protein and appropriate for their function . F-actin forms parallel , two-stranded helical filaments with a right-handed twist  , plasmid segregating protein ParM forms parallel helical filaments with a left-handed twist , that arrange in an antiparallel fashion  , whereas cell division protein FtsA forms pairs of straight filaments with unknown orientation  . Low-resolution images of actin-like protein Alp12 suggest that two pairs of parallel filaments twist around each other in an antiparallel fashion  , whereas MamK and Crenactin form a two-stranded , non-staggered helix  . Despite these variations in overall filament architecture , the head-to-tail arrangement of subunits in a single protofilament is surprisingly conserved , given the low sequence similarity  . In addition , all protofilaments interact with each other using their flat sides , irrespective of the filament architecture . Moreover , the propeller twist required for filament dynamics in response to nucleotide binding and hydrolysis is preserved . The result of the propeller twist is the closure of domains I and II and the flattening of one side of the molecule that makes the inter-protofilament interface  . The recently published molecular dynamics simulations of MreB  are in agreement with this observation . Furthermore , detailed structural studies of the different nucleotide states of the best studied actin-like proteins MreB and ParM show that the polymerisation cycle is fairly conserved , with the largest domain movement taking place upon the transition from the monomeric state to the polymeric form  . In both proteins , the active site geometry in the filament conformation favours nucleotide hydrolysis , which is driven by a catalytic glutamate  that positions the catalytic water in line with the gamma phosphate . The co-crystal structures of AMPPNP-bound CcMreB with the inhibitor confirm the critical role of this catalytic residue E140  . In the AMPPNP-bound monomer conformation , no catalytic water is present in CcMreB  , whereas the catalytic water in monomeric AMPPNP-bound ParM has moved away from the ideal geometry , thus hampering hydrolysis  . It has been reported previously that MreB can polymerise in the presence of either ATP or GTP  . From the ΔCcMreBdh co-crystal structures with ADP and AMPPNP , it is clear that the active site could well accommodate a guanidine instead of an adenine as the major contacts are with the ribose and phosphate moieties of the nucleotide , a feature , again , shared with ParM  . The straight , antiparallel arrangement of MreB protofilaments ensures that each subunit can interact with the membrane and membrane-bound components of the elongasome . The non-polar nature of MreB filaments explains common assembly and disassembly kinetics for both filament ends . Future experiments will explore the implications of the antiparallel architecture of MreB on cell wall synthesis and investigate whether MreB dictates bidirectional growth of the cell wall . Genes of Caulobacter crescentus MreB  and Thermotoga maritima MreB1  were cloned into the small T7-vector pHis17  by means of PCR and restriction cloning , encoding for the his-tagged proteins: ΔCcMreBh  , ΔCcMreBdh  , and ΔCcMreBdmh  . Protofilament interface mutations were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis , essentially as described below for the mutants used in genetic complementation . Full-length CcMreB was expressed from pFE403  and the inter-protofilament mutant V118E in full-length CcMreB was expressed from pFE542  in C41 cells  . coli C41  cells  with 1 mM IPTG . The protein elutes with bound ADP from the final S300HR column if no EDTA is used in buffer A . maritima MreB as the search model  or a related structure from within this study . coli total lipid extract  floating on CcMreB polymerisation buffer  in a teflon well . The grid was removed and after the excess of liquid had been gently blotted away , pre-assembled CcMreB filaments were added for 60 s before staining with 2% uranyl acetate . CcMreB polymerisation  was carried out in a low salt buffer  . coli total lipid extract  and lipid tubes were formed by mixing E . 1 mg/ml of lipid was included in polymerisation buffers for both CcMreB and TmMreB  ; CcMreB polymerization buffer: 12 . 5 , 2 mM ATP , 4 mM MgCl2 and TmMreB polymerisation buffer: 100 mM Tris-HCl , 7 . 5 , 200 mM NaCl , 2 mM ATP , 4 mM MgCl2 . MreB-coated lipid tubes samples were applied to a thin continuous carbon film grid  whereas MreB-liposome samples were applied to holey carbon grids  both from Agar Scientific and subsequently frozen in liquid ethane using a FEI Vitrobot . The overall arrangement of the MreB filaments in all analysed tubes was the same . Mutated versions of MreB were examined when expressed from a lac promoter on a low copy number plasmid in an MreBCD knock-out strain  . Mutant MreB was transformed into the strain FB17/pFB112/pFB124 and grown for 6 hr in LB supplemented with 250 µM IPTG , 50 µg/ml ampicillin and 50 µg/ml spectinomycin at 37°C . coli MreB as the only source of MreB as described above . Cross-linked products were separated from the monomers on a NuPAGE 4–12% Bis-Tris gel  and detected by Western blot using affinity purified α-MreB antibodies . Standard experiments used 19 × 2 µl injections of nucleotide or MP265 into ΔCcMreBdh protein preceded by a single 0 . The concentration of ΔCcMreBdh in the cell was typically ∼70 µM while the concentration of nucleotide or MP265 used in the syringe was ∼2 mM . 
Petal number , for example , is invariant in Arabidopsis thaliana flowers . hirsuta . hirsuta AP1 fails to complement this function of A . thaliana AP1 , conferring variable petal number , and that upstream regulatory regions of AP1 contribute to this divergence . Moreover , variable petal number is maintained in C . However , less is known about the genetic control of petal number . thaliana mutants specifically affect petal number; among them is petal loss  , which displays a variable loss of petals caused by mutation of the PTL trihelix transcription factor  . Cardamine hirsuta is a close relative of A . thaliana that lacks a robust phenotype of four petals  . hirsuta flowers display a variable number of petals , between zero and four , on a single plant  . hirsuta flowers show seasonal variation in petal number , with spring-flowering plants producing more petals than summer-flowering plants  . hirsuta flowers  . hirsuta . hirsuta  . hirsuta , but were not detected by QTL analysis in natural accessions  . hirsuta is more likely to maintain variation , rather than robustness , in petal number . Petal number varies both within and between species , evolving from a robust state of four petals , typified by A . hirsuta . thaliana and C . hirsuta  . A simple prediction about robust phenotypes , such as petal number in A . thaliana , to a variable petal number in C . hirsuta . thaliana AP1 masks the phenotypic expression of all petal number QTL in C . hirsuta and , in this way , confers robustness . hirsuta AP1 fails to complement this function of A . thaliana AP1 , conferring variable petal number , and that upstream regulatory regions of AP1 contribute to this divergence . The flowers of A . thaliana and other Brassicaceae species are readily distinguished by their four petals . thaliana accessions consistently produce four petals  . hirsuta lacks this robustness and shows variation in petal number . Therefore , petal number varies within C . hirsuta from A . thaliana . Petals initiate in the second whorl of A . thaliana and C . hirsuta flowers at similar developmental stages  . However , when we found petal primordia in C . hirsuta flowers , their development appeared indistinguishable from those in A . thaliana  . Therefore , the number of petals in a C . hirsuta flower is determined at early stages of petal initiation and outgrowth . thaliana and C . At sites of petal initiation in A . thaliana , but not C . hirsuta . thaliana mimics the variable petal number found in C . hirsuta and shows a similar distribution of auxin activity during petal initiation as wild-type C . hirsuta   . hirsuta . thaliana PTL  was sufficient to restore four petals in the ptl mutant , but did not alter petal number when expressed in C . hirsuta  . hirsuta and A . hirsuta and A . hirsuta and A . thaliana . Petals are defined by both their identity and position within a flower . To test whether the variable number of petals in C . hirsuta ag mutants , four petals replaced the four stamens normally found in the third whorl of wild-type flowers , while petal number remained variable and lower than four in the second whorl  . hirsuta  . hirsuta floral meristem is associated with variable petal number . hirsuta , particularly given that ap1 mutants in both C . hirsuta and A . thaliana show variable petal loss  . thaliana AP1 ( AtAP1::AtAP1:GFP  ) , which was sufficient to restore four petals in the ap1 mutant  and eliminate the ectopic flowers that characterize the partial loss of floral meristem identity of ap1 mutants  . hirsuta petal number from variable to robust , elevating petal number towards the A . thaliana value of four petals  . hirsuta lines expressing the endogenous AP1 locus  . hirsuta . Therefore , divergence in AP1 function likely contributed to the variation in petal number between A . thaliana and C . hirsuta . If AP1 divergence contributed to petal number variation between species , do AP1 polymorphisms contribute to this phenotype within C . hirsuta ? hirsuta . hirsuta by altering the robustness of this phenotype to genetic variation . Given that petal number is a canalized trait in A . thaliana and robust to genetic variation  , we hypothesized that AP1 divergence may have decanalized petal number in C . thaliana AP1 should canalize petal number in C . hirsuta via epistatic interactions with petal number QTL . hirsuta Ox containing the A . thaliana AP1 genomic locus  , with the Nz accession  . We detected nine petal number QTL in addition to the A . thaliana AP1 transgene locus  . thaliana AP1 genomic locus  . thaliana AP1 transgene , which had four petals , and plants that lacked the transgene , which had variable petal number  . thaliana AP1 canalized C . hirsuta petal number by masking the phenotypic effects of at least 9 QTL . thaliana and C . hirsuta may have a differential ability to confer four petals . hirsuta AP1 could fully complement the function of A . thaliana AP1 , we introduced a ChAP1::ChAP1:GFP transgene into an ap1 mutant background in A . thaliana . Rather than restoring four petals like ap1-12; AtAP1::AtAP1:GFP  , we found that the distribution of petal number remained variable in ap1-12; ChAP1::ChAP1:GFP flowers  , mimicking the variable petal number found in C . hirsuta . Petal number varied between zero and four , and the average petal number was significantly lower in ap1 plants expressing the AP1 genomic clone from C . hirsuta rather than A . thaliana  . hirsuta and A . thaliana affected petal number independently of floral meristem identity . hirsuta AP1 has a reduced ability to promote four petals when compared to A . thaliana AP1 . thaliana and C . hirsuta AP1 , swapping the promoter and coding sequences , in an ap1 mutant background in A . thaliana . We found that petal number was significantly elevated by the A . thaliana AP1 promoter , compared to the C . hirsuta AP1 promoter , irrespective of the AP1 coding sequence driven by these promoters  . Therefore , functional differences in AP1 that are responsible for petal number variation between A . thaliana and C . hirsuta and A . thaliana AP1 . hirsuta AP1 to promote four petals may reflect reduced levels of gene expression . hirsuta flower  . thaliana AP1::AP1:GFP nuclear signal in the sepal whorl and on the flanks of the floral meristem , in the small regions where petals initiate in whorl two  . hirsuta AP1::AP1:GFP was essentially restricted to the sepal whorl throughout stages 4 and 5  . thaliana AP1::AP1:GFP extended significantly further than C . hirsuta AP1::AP1:GFP  . thaliana or C . hirsuta AP1 genomic constructs  . hirsuta petal number by seasonal changes in temperature  . hirsuta . hirsuta and A . hirsuta AP1::AP1:RFP expression is enriched in the regions between sepals  . hirsuta flowers  , and since distortions of this region have been shown to influence petal initiation in A . hirsuta AP1 in this domain might be relevant for petal number variation in C . hirsuta . Our findings suggest that petal number is a robust phenotype in A . hirsuta , such that AP1 divergence allowed previously cryptic loci to quantitatively affect petal number . hirsuta  . Moreover , few accessions have an average petal number approaching four  . hirsuta wild-type and AtAP1::AtAP1:GFP plants that differed in petal number  . hirsuta . hirsuta . thaliana , to a variable petal number in C . hirsuta . hirsuta petal number . Instead , the decanalization of petal number in C . hirsuta involved regulatory changes in AP1 that relaxed its epistasis over alleles that cause petal number to vary . hirsuta that contributes directly to maintaining variable petal number within natural accessions of C . hirsuta . We found that AP1 genes from A . thaliana and C . hirsuta diverged in their ability to specify an invariant number of four petals . thaliana and C . hirsuta . thaliana AP1 defines a robust range where petal number is buffered against perturbations  . hirsuta AP1 is expressed below this threshold , such that petal number varies in response to genetic , environmental , and stochastic perturbations   . Petal number is invariant among natural accessions of A . thaliana petal number to variable by complementing ap1 mutants with the AP1 genomic locus from C . hirsuta . These flowers mimicked the variable petal number found in C . hirsuta , suggesting that there may be variability in the gene regulatory network controlling petal number in A . hirsuta , petal number is decanalized , such that natural genetic variation deforms Waddington’s landscape , producing a variable phenotype  . hirsuta genome and showed that introducing the A . thaliana AP1 locus masked the effects of all QTL . Therefore , petal number was effectively canalized in C . hirsuta via epistasis of A . thaliana AP1 over existing QTL . hirsuta that confers petal number robustness . thaliana AP1 locus on petal number , it is interesting that endogenous AP1 polymorphisms do not contribute directly to petal number variation in C . hirsuta . thaliana and C . hirsuta  . hirsuta , contributing to the evolution of variable petal number . thaliana  and C . hirsuta  have been described previously . thaliana mutants: ap1-12  , ptl-1  . thaliana and C . hirsuta accessions have been described previously  . hirsuta ag-1 mutant phenotype . hirsuta wild type and A . hirsuta wild type and A . thaliana ptl-1 . hirsuta wild-type and A . thaliana ap1-12 backgrounds . hirsuta AP1 . hirsuta wild type and A . thaliana ap1-12 . hirsuta and A . thaliana ap1-12 . hirsuta AP1 genomic fragment used above . thaliana wild type and ap1-12 . hirsuta wild type . hirsuta or A . thaliana and C . QTL analysis of petal number was performed on a C . hirsuta AP1 locus using primers AP1cisF1  and AP1cisR1  and the restriction enzyme AluI . 
Biosynthesis of insulin – critical to metabolic homeostasis – begins with folding of the proinsulin precursor , including formation of three evolutionarily conserved intramolecular disulfide bonds . Remarkably , normal pancreatic islets contain a subset of proinsulin molecules bearing at least one free cysteine thiol . In human  islets with a perturbed endoplasmic reticulum folding environment , non-native proinsulin enters intermolecular disulfide-linked complexes . In genetically obese mice with otherwise wild-type islets , disulfide-linked complexes of proinsulin are more abundant , and leptin receptor-deficient mice , the further increase of such complexes tracks with the onset of islet insulin deficiency and diabetes . Proinsulin-Cys  and Cys  are necessary and sufficient for the formation of proinsulin disulfide-linked complexes; indeed , proinsulin Cys  -Cys  covalent homodimers resist reductive dissociation , highlighting a structural basis for aberrant proinsulin complex formation . We conclude that increased proinsulin misfolding via disulfide-linked complexes is an early event associated with prediabetes that worsens with ß-cell dysfunction in type two diabetes . , we examined islet protein content of p58ipk  as a reliable marker of islet ER stress response , and found that the levels of this ER co-chaperone of BiP began to increase in ad lib fed LepRdb/db mice even before the animals have reached a random blood glucose of 160 mg/dL  . In the islets of young , normoglycemic homozygous LepRdb/db male mice that are destined for diabetes , proinsulin disulfide-linked complexes  were increased slightly above the level observed in heterozygous LepRdb/+ males  , and islet insulin levels were similarly increased  . With a random blood glucose level in the mid 200’s  , islet proinsulin was notably increased  and comprised >90% of disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes  whereas simultaneously , islet insulin levels were dramatically decreased  . With a random blood glucose level >500 mg/dL , islet proinsulin and insulin levels were both severely diminished  . However , for females in this glycemic range , as in males , islet proinsulin was increased  and once again , >90% was entangled in disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes  . Additionally , with a random blood glucose of 455 mg/dL , both proinsulin and insulin were severely diminished  indicating islet decompensation . During this progression to diabetes , intracellular proinsulin distribution that initially displayed a prominent juxtanuclear pattern with good co-localization to the Golgi region  tended to shift towards a staining pattern that was more spread in the cytoplasm , with increased co-localization with the ER marker , calnexin  ; although even in the fully diabetic state there appeared to be increased juxtanuclear  proinsulin distribution after overnight fasting  . Cys  and Cys  are two of the three most reactive thiols of proinsulin , and they initiate covalent association of B- and A-domains that are required for proinsulin export from the ER  . Nevertheless , in the redox environment of the pancreatic ß-cell ER , a human mutant proinsulin that retains only two cysteines , named ‘keep-B19/A20’ cannot undergo efficient intramolecular oxidation  . Reactive free thiol availability  is a key to proinsulin participation in intermolecular disulfide-linked complex formation . We expressed each of these recombinant proinsulin mutants in the INS-832/13 ß-cell line  . However , in ß-cells treated with proteasome inhibitor  , myc-tagged proinsulin monomers were detected in all cases  . Remarkably , not only were these constructs capable of forming disulfide-linked proinsulin homodimers , but the keep-B19/A20 construct in particular recapitulated the situation in which the majority of molecules migrated as disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes  . With or without MG132 , this behavior was also observed upon expression in 293 T cells that lack endogenous proinsulin  , and these complexes appeared quite similar to those observed in human islets  . To determine if Cys  /Cys  are both necessary and sufficient for generating the full ladder of disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes , we compared the three different human mutant proinsulins noted above that each retain only one set of potential disulfide partners , and a human proinsulin mutant named ‘lose-B19/A20’ in which Cys  and Cys  are mutated whereas positions B7 , A7 , A11 and A20 remain as cysteines . Once again , of the mutant human proinsulins that retain only one set of potential disulfide partners , only keep-B19/A20 could efficiently recreate the entire ladder of disulfide-linked complexes similar to that seen for wildtype proinsulin , irrespective of the presence or absence of an engineered myc epitope tag in the C-peptide  . However , lose-B19/A20 did not efficiently recreate the ladder of disulfide-linked complexes despite entrapment in the ER in a proinsulin construct bearing four Cys residues . These data indicate that the Cys  /Cys  pair is both necessary and sufficient for efficient propagation of disulfide-linked complexes of improperly-folded proinsulin . In these experiments , we were struck by the observations 1 ) that all 2-Cys proinsulin mutants have the capability to at least weakly form a covalent dimer , which is essential to the further propagation of these improperly folded complexes into trimers , tetramers , and higher order complexes  , and 2 ) a small fraction of proinsulin dimers appeared to remain even after reducing SDS-PAGE  . Although five of the six Cys residues could make a homotypic covalent association , Cys  preferred not to make the disulfide bond  . More significantly , Cys  not only covalently homodimerized with exuberance  but this Cys  -Cys  bond could not be broken at room temperature in SDS-gel sample buffer even in the presence of 200 mM dithiothreitol  . These data indicate that a Cys  -Cys  disulfide bond between proinsulin monomers predisposes to strongly-associated covalent complexes that are automatically misfolded by omitting the crucial intramolecular Cys  -Cys  disulfide bond , which leaves the critical reactive Cys  residue unpaired and available for further disulfide infidelity . Such an initiating event can thus form a nidus for assembly of larger misfolded disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes  . Pancreatic ß-cell ER stress is one of the most frequently described components of T2D in humans and animal models  . It is indisputable that ß-cell ER stress can be triggered by proinsulin misfolding in the setting of INS gene coding sequence mutations  but there are also strong reasons to think that even in the absence of INS gene mutations , proinsulin misfolding could be an early feature in the progression of T2D  . In the present study , we have exploited several independent lines of experimentation to identify a significantly increased population of improperly folded proinsulin in the ER of prediabetic and diabetic ß-cells . We establish that proinsulin misfolding includes the inability to successfully complete its three internal disulfide bonds , with a subfraction of proinsulin molecules in the ER bearing unpaired cysteine residues . This population of improperly folded proinsulin molecules enters into aberrant disulfide-linked partnerships with other proinsulin molecules in the ER , resulting in misfolded proinsulin complexes that are for the first time identified in the islets of human beings . There is strong reason to believe that proinsulin disulfide-linked complex formation provides a status report on the health of the ß-cell ER folding environment . Many studies point to the idea that the activity of ER stress  sensor proteins are required to actively maintain a proper ER chaperone and oxidoreductase environment for optimal proinsulin folding  . Recent work indicates that protein disulfide isomerase is one of the ER luminal factors that regulates the balance of proinsulin disulfide-linked complexes and monomers  . We show here that even a modest decrease of BiP levels results in improperly folded proinsulin rapidly accumulating in disulfide-linked complexes  , supporting that proinsulin folding is highly sensitive to changes in the ER folding environment , which can include excessive proinsulin biosynthesis , altered chaperone and/or oxidoreductase expression , and changes in the rate of clearance of misfolded proinsulin molecules  . We believe that these and other ER luminal factors are needed to enhance the efficiency of formation of the proinsulin intramolecular Cys  -Cys  disulfide bond . Not only is this internal disulfide critical to additional native proinsulin disulfide pairing   , but the availability of free Cys  and Cys  can recapitulate the entire ladder of improperly disulfide linked proinsulin complexes . Several pathways of disulfide propagation are possible , highlighted in Figure 7—figure supplement 1B . However , those complexes bearing a homotypic Cys  -Cys  covalent bond are likely to be the most difficult to successfully isomerize , as this bond cannot be broken in vitro even in the presence of SDS plus 200 mM DTT  . However , clearly there are important islet changes that occur considerably before these events  including ß-cell ER stress response activation   . Figure 8 presents a schematic describing our hypothesis regarding how proinsulin misfolding fits into the paradigm of what is known about T2D progression in the LepRdb/db model . Our work highlights that throughout the first , compensated stage , improperly folded proinsulin is increased but islet insulin content is still robust  . In the second , decompensating stage , islet proinsulin levels are actually further increased , but much of this is improperly folded proinsulin in the ER , and at this stage , islet insulin levels begin to drop  . It is at a still higher level of hyperglycemia that both proinsulin and insulin steady state levels are low  , which correlates with the time when ß-cell dedifferentiation and ß-cell death have been reported . It should be noted that even at this time , the low-level proinsulin protein that is still expressed is recovered >90% in aberrant disulfide linked complexes , and even partial restoration of secretory pathway function requires ß-cell rest  . We suspect that throughout the progression of ß-cell stress in T2D , quality control of proinsulin anterograde export from the ER is nevertheless maintained . We note that we have been unable to detect secreted proinsulin that can be alkylated with AMS , or that is recovered in disulfide-linked complexes , even from islets or cells in which proinsulin has accumulated intracellularly in disulfide-linked complexes at massive levels . However , experiments such as these will need to be rigorously tested with islets from human T2D subjects , as these patients are known to have abnormally high levels of immunoreactive proinsulin in the circulation  . In conclusion , our data establish the presence of a previously underappreciated population of aberrant proinsulin complexes that accumulates in prediabetic conditions and persists until ß-cell failure ensues . We note that the proinsulin complexes defined by nonreducing SDS-PAGE highlight a core of covalently-associated proteins; further work will be needed to explore additional protein partners including those that may be noncovalently associated . Nevertheless , the data presented herein establish disulfide-linked complexes of proinsulin as one of the earliest tissue biomarkers indicating ß-cell secretory pathway dysfunction , which is associated with ER stress and ultimate insulin deficiency that occurs in the natural progression of T2D . The INS1E cells bathing media were also similarly tested for AMS-reactive proinsulin species . These plasmids were used as templates for further mutagenesis to create six single-cysteine myc-tagged proinsulin mutants using the QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit  . All resulting plasmids encoding corresponding proinsulin mutations were confirmed by direct DNA sequencing . A single-tooth comb was introduced at one end of the stacking gel to introduce a one-dimensional reduced sample of proinsulin containing cell lysate  . 
SUV39H is the major histone H3 lysine 9  -specific methyltransferase that targets pericentric regions and is crucial for assembling silent heterochromatin . SUV39H recognizes trimethylated H3K9  via its chromodomain  , and enriched H3K9me3 allows SUV39H to target specific chromosomal regions . Here we show that Suv39h1’s CD  binds nucleic acids , and this binding is important for its function in heterochromatin assembly . Suv39h1-CD had higher binding affinity for RNA than DNA , and its ability to bind nucleic acids was independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Suv39h1 bound major satellite RNAs in vivo , and knockdown of major satellite RNAs lowered Suv39h1 retention on pericentromere . Suv39h1 mutational studies indicated that both the nucleic acid–binding and H3K9me–binding activities of Suv39h1-CD were crucial for its pericentric heterochromatin assembly . These results suggest that chromatin-bound RNAs contribute to creating SUV39H’s target specificity . SUV39H  , an H3K9me3 methyltransferase in mammals  , targets CH domains and intact transposons  . H3K9me3 in the pericentric regions is mainly catalyzed by SUV39H  . Therefore , in Suv39h1/2 double-knockout  cells , the H3K9me3 levels over the pericentromere are severely diminished and HP1 proteins do not accumulate  . However , it is not clear whether the RNAi-dependent pathway  is involved in the process of establishing and maintaining heterochromatin in mammals , such as in creating target specificities for SUV39H and SUV39H-mediated H3K9me3 formation . The CD functions as a binding module that targets H3K9me3 marks , and the SET domain is responsible for SUV39H’s enzymatic activity . Here we demonstrated that Suv39h1-CD can bind nucleic acids , and that this binding is crucial for Suv39h1’s function . Suv39h-CD prefers to bind ssRNA rather than dsDNA , and Suv39h-CD’s nucleic acid binding is independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Mutational analyses revealed that both the nucleic acid- and H3K9me3-binding activities of Suv39h1 are important for its induction of heterochromatin assembly . We also showed that Suv39h1 bound major satellite RNA in vivo in a manner dependent on its nucleic acid-binding activity and that knockdown of major satellite RNAs lowered Suv39h1 retention on pericentric heterochromatin . Our data suggest that chromatin-bound RNAs contribute to the targeting and retention of Suv39h1 at specific chromosomal regions . Here , to investigate whether Suv39h1 also binds nucleic acids , we produced a GST-fusion protein containing Suv39h1-CD   and conducted electrophoretic mobility-shift assays  using in vitro transcribed , single-stranded 130-nt major satellite RNA  as a probe . Suv39h1-CD can bind nucleic acids . Schematic of full-length Suv39h1 , GST-fused Suv39h1-CD  , and S . pombe Chp1-CD  . Titration EMSAs using GST-Suv39h1-CD  incubated with  130-nt ssRNA or  130 bp dsDNA . The binding isotherm of Suv39h1-CD to ssRNA and dsDNA; plots were calculated from the unbound fractions . Characteristics of Suv39h1-full-length and -CD’s RNA binding . ,  ,  ,  , and G–I ) EMSAs were conducted with GST-fused Suv39h1-CD  and the following probes:  130-nt alfa satellite ssRNA ,  130-nt ACTB mRNA ,  74-nt major satellite ssRNA ,  189-nt major satellite ssRNA ,  60-nt  x10 ssRNA ,  74-nt major satellite DNA/RNA hybrid , or  130-nt major satellite dsRNA . The binding isotherms of Suv39h1-CD to various ssRNA probes . EMSAs were conducted with MBP  , MBP-fused Suv39h1-CD   , MBP-fused full-length Suv39h1-WT  or 4A  using 130-nt major satellite ssRNA as the probe . The binding isotherms of MBP-fused Suv39h1 proteins to 130-nt major satellite ssRNA . We tested whether Suv39h1-CD could also bind DNA by an EMSA using 130 bp major satellite dsDNA . Although Suv39h1-CD was able to bind dsDNA , titration analysis revealed that Suv39h1-CD had a lower binding affinity for dsDNA than for ssRNA  . Although nucleosomal DNA might contribute to Suv39h1’s chromatin targeting , the present study focused on Suv39h1-CD’s ssRNA-binding activity . To determine the type of sequences that are targeted by Suv39h1-CD , we prepared several different ssRNAs and subjected them to an RNA EMSA  . Suv39h1-CD was able to bind both 130-nt alpha satellite ssRNA and 130-nt ACTB ORF ssRNA with a similar affinity as for 130-nt major satellite ssRNA  . Suv39h1-CD bound similarly to major satellite ssRNAs with a length of 74–189 nt  . reported that GST-SUV39H1 preferentially binds to telomeric-repeat (  10 ) ssRNAs and that part of SUV39H1’s N terminus  is responsible for this RNA-binding activity  ; these findings are consistent with our results . However , we found that GST-Suv39h1-CD’s binding affinity for 60-nt  10 was similar to that of 74-nt major satellite ssRNAs  . Therefore , we investigated whether Suv39h1-CD has a higher binding affinity for DNA-RNA hybrid strands or dsRNA than for ssRNA . However , Suv39h1-CD bound major satellite RNA-DNA hybrid strands and dsRNA with similar affinities to that of ssRNA  , indicating that RNA-DNA hybrid molecules or dsRNA do not have a unique role in this recognition . Taken together , these results suggested that Suv39h1-CD binds RNA without a major preference for particular structures or sequences . Therefore , we next examined whether Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding is linked with its H3K9me3 recognition . We first determined whether Suv39h1-CD shows a preference for methylated H3K9 peptide . Furthermore , a peptide pull-down assay demonstrated that GST-Suv39h1-CD had higher binding affinities for di- or trimethylated H3K9 peptide   . The residues required for Suv39h1-CD to bind RNA . The alignment of wild-type  and mutant Suv39h1-CD  . The aromatic cage residues responsible for Suv39h1-CD’s recognition of H3K9me3 were indicated in green . An in vitro peptide-binding assay using wild-type  and mutant  Suv39h1-CDs . Biotin-tagged H3  peptide  was incubated with GST-Suv39h1-CD  , and the pulled-down proteins were analyzed by western blotting with an anti-GST antibody . Titration EMSAs using serially diluted GST-fused WT or mutant Suv39h1-CD . An EMSA using GST-fused WT or mutant Suv39h1-CD . Binding isotherms of WT and mutant Suv39h1-CD proteins for ssRNA . Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding is independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Binding isotherms of GST-Suv39h1-CD and ssRNA in the presence or absence of equal molar amounts of the indicated H3 peptides . In vitro peptide-binding assay using WT Suv39h1-CD in the presence of major satellite ssRNA or dsDNA . 006 To examine the relationship between Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding and H3K9me3 binding , we introduced an amino acid substitution at Y67; this residue , along with F43 and W64 , is responsible for Suv39h1-CD’s recognition of H3K9me3   . An EMSA demonstrated that Suv39h1-CD-Y67A bound ssRNA with an affinity almost the same as that of wild-type Suv39h1-CD  , indicating that Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding was distinct from its H3K9me3 recognition . These results suggested that Suv39h1-CD’s ability to bind RNA is an intrinsic property that is distinct from its ability to recognize H3K9me3 . The presence of these nucleic acids slightly repressed rather than enhanced the overall amount of co-pulled-down Suv39h1-CD , suggesting that Suv39h-CD’s recognition of methylated H3K9 is also independent of its nucleic acid binding . Furthermore , we confirmed that Suv39h1-CD’s recognition of methylated H3K9 was not affected by the nucleic acid-binding defective mutation , 4A  . To understand the biological implications of Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding , we next investigated the residues required for binding RNA . Although Suv39h1-CD does not appear to have such a stretch of basic residues , it has a series of basic residues in its C-terminal α-helix  . We introduced five different amino acid substitutions into Suv39h1-CD  and tested the ability of these mutants to bind RNA . In EMSAs , a Suv39h1-CD mutant  with N-terminal distal amino acid substitutions bound RNA more weakly than wild-type Suv39h1-CD; the mutants with other substitutions almost completely lost the ability to bind RNA  . Titration analyses confirmed that these basic residues were critical for Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding  . Our results demonstrated that the basic residues in Suv39h1-CD’s C-terminal α-helix are also involved in its RNA binding as those in Chp1-CD or Clr4-CD are . To determine how other Suv39h1 domains contribute to its CD’s RNA/DNA binding , we prepared Suv39h1-CD and full-length Suv39h1 as maltose binding protein  -fused versions  , since we noticed that the solubility of MBP-Suv39h1 was better than that of GST-Suv39h1  . We first confirmed that MBP-Suv39h1-CD bound 130-nt ssRNA with a similar affinity to that of GST-Suv39h1-CD  . Interestingly , we found that MBP-fused full-length Suv39h1 bound ssRNA with a relatively higher affinity compared with MBP-Suv39h1-CD , and the 4A mutation partially impaired this binding  . These results suggest that other Suv39h1 domain  contribute to Suv39h1-CD’s RNA-binding activity , which was reminiscent of fission yeast Chp1  . To elucidate how Suv39h-CD’s nucleic acid–binding activity is integrated into the Suv39h1-mediated establishment and maintenance of pericentric heterochromatin , we prepared retroviral expression vectors expressing FLAG-tagged Suv39h1 mutants defective in nucleic acid binding  , methylated H3K9 binding  , or both  , and FLAG-tagged wild-type Suv39h1  . We transduced these constructs into Suv39h dn immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts   . On day 2 after infection with these viral particles , the GFP-positive cells were sorted out to collect transgene-expressing Suv39h dn iMEFs . We monitored these cells’ exogenously expressed wild-type and mutant Suv39h1 on day 8 , and confirmed that their expression levels were comparable to or slightly higher than that of endogenous Suv39h1  . Suv39h1-CD’s nucleic acid binding and H3K9me binding are both crucial for pericentric heterochromatin assembly . Alignment of wild-type  and mutant full-length Suv39h1 . Suv39h1 protein expression level . *Endogenous Suv39h1; arrowhead: FLAG-Suv39h1 . Kinetic comparison of the appearance ratio of the cells containing H3K9me3+ DAPI-dense foci after induction of WT and mutant Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEFs . Immunohistochemical staining for H3K9me3 in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged 4A , Y67A , Y67A-4A , or WT Suv39h1 at  3 days or  6 days post-infection . The rate of HP1β heterochromatin accumulation in WT and mutant Suv39h1 during heterochromatin establishment . Immunohistochemical staining for HP1β in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged 4A , Y67A , Y67A-4A , or WT Suv39h1 at 6 days post-infection . Immunohistochemical staining for HP1β in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged 4A , Y67A , Y67A-4A , or WT Suv39h1 at 6 days post-infection . H3K9me3 or HP1β in wild-type and mutant Suv39h1 during heterochromatin assembly . Immunohistochemical staining for H3K9me3 in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1 at 3 and 6 days post-infection . HP1β and H3K9me3 in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1 during heterochromatin assembly , at 6 days post-infection . Native chromatin immunoprecipitation  assays showing H3K9me3 enrichment at major satellite repeats in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1 at 6 days post-infection  . qRT-PCR assays for major satellite RNA transcripts in Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1 at 14 days post-infection . Comparable histone H3 methylation by wild-type and mutant Suv39h1 in vitro . Western blots of purified FLAG-tagged wild-type  or mutant  Suv39h1 . FLAG-tagged WT or mutant Suv39h1 was incubated with 14C-labeled SAM . Cell proliferation rates of Suv39h dn iMEFs were not changed by expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant Suv39h1 . Suv39h dn iMEFs stained by CellTrace Far Red Cell Proliferation Kit were infected with retroviruses for FLAG-Suv39h1  -IRES-GFP . Suv39h1’s N-terminal region also contributes to Suv39h1-mediated pericentric H3K9me3 formation . Alignment of wild-type  and mutant full-length Suv39h1 . Suv39h1 protein expression level . *Endogenous Suv39h1; black arrowhead: FLAG-Suv39h1 WT or R24 , K27A; gray arrowhead: FLAG-Suv39h1-DN . Comparison of the rate of increase of H3K9me3 in WT and mutant Suv39h1 during the establishment of heterochromatin . Immunohistochemical staining for H3K9me3 in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged R24 , K27A , DN , or WT Suv39h1 at 3 days  or 6 days  post-infection . Immunohistochemical staining for H3K9me3 in WT iMEFs , Suv39h dn iMEFs , or Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1 at 3 or 6 days post-infection . 011 The induction of wild-type Suv39h1  expression in Suv39h dn iMEFs rescued pericentric H3K9me3 signals in the DAPI-dense pericentric regions  , 64 . The formation of H3K9me3 foci on DAPI-dense regions was also induced by the RNA-binding-deficient Suv39h1-4A mutant , but this induction was significantly less efficient than that observed with Suv39h1  . The Suv39h1-Y67A-4A double mutant had an additive effect , and H3K9me3 foci+ cells were further decreased on day 6  . H3K9me3 level at major satellite regions was severely diminished in Suv39h dn iMEFs and recovered by FLAG-tagged Suv39h1-WT expression on day 6 after transduction  . Suv39h1 mutants  also increased H3K9me3 levels , but Suv39h1-Y67A-4A had a minimal effect . An in vitro HMTase assay showed that all of the Suv39h1 mutants had histone methyltransferase  activity for free H3 , comparable to Suv39h1-WT  . Cell proliferation analysis demonstrated that the number of cell divisions during the first 3 days after viral infection were not much different among the Suv39h1 dn iMEFs infected with an empty or expression vector for Suv39h1 proteins  . In the case of pericentric HP1β accumulation , Suv39h1-WT expression induced >80% of cells to become HP1β foci-positive  on day 6  , but the phenotype was rescued only poorly by the Suv39h1 mutants  . Dual immunostaining of the Suv39h dn iMEFs on day 6 further demonstrated that compared to iMEFs rescued with Suv39h1-WT , iMEFs rescued with the Suv39h1 mutants contained larger cell populations that were negative for both H3K9me3 and HP1β  or were positive for only H3K9me3  , suggesting that SUV39H-mediated heterochromatin assembly was less efficient in those mutant cells . To examine whether introduced Suv39h1 actually restored the repressive heterochromatin structure , we analyzed the expression levels of major satellite RNA . As reported previously  , major satellite repeats were derepressed in Suv39h dn iMEFs  and introduction of Suv39h1-WT suppressed this up-regulation of major satellite repeats  . Mutant Suv39h1 with Y67A , 4A , or Y67A-4A also decreased major satellite repeat transcripts , but their repression levels were milder than that of Suv39h1-WT . Furthermore , among these mutants , Suv39h1-Y67A-4A’s effect was the weakest . Collectively , these results indicate that Suv39h1-CD’s nucleic acid–binding activity integrates and cooperates with its recognition and binding of methylated H3K9 to establish/maintain Suv39h1-mediated pericentric heterochromatin such as H3K9me3 formation , HP1 accumulation , and transcriptionally repressive status . Despite having impaired binding of both RNA and methylated H3K9 , the Suv39h1 mutant Y67A-4A was able to assemble CH on pericentric regions , although less efficiently and completely than wild-type Suv39h1  . These data indicate that the Y67A-4A mutant retains other critical factors or functions that promote Suv39h1’s association with CH sufficiently for Y67A-4A to induce pericentric heterochromatin assembly . Indeed , we recently found that the induction of pericentric H3K9me3 is extremely poor in Suv39h dn iMEFs complemented with an N-terminal deletion  mutant of Suv39h1  expressed at an endogenous level   . Although ΔN does not bind HP1 , it was recently reported that the N-terminal region of Suv39h1  also possesses chromatin-binding activity independent of its HP1 interaction  . Therefore , we validated the role of this chromatin-binding activity in Suv39h1-mediated H3K9me3 formation . We used the Suv39h1-R24 , K27A mutant , which is reported to be defective for chromatin binding but to still interact with HP1 in pericentric H3K9me3 formation in Suv39h dn iMEFs   . We found that the pericentric H3K9me3 formation was clearly diminished in Suv39h dn cells complemented with Suv39h1-R24 , K27A , but the impact of ΔN was much stronger than that of the R24 , K27A mutation . Thus , we concluded that both the HP1-binding and chromatin-binding activities of the N-terminal region also contribute to Suv39h1-mediated heterochromatin assembly . Since Suv39h1-CD had a higher binding affinity for RNA than for DNA in EMSAs  , and this binding activity appeared to be crucial for Suv39h1-mediated pericentric heterochromatin formation , we examined whether Suv39h1 binds RNA transcribed from pericentric major satellite repeats inside the cell . In experiments with Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged wild-type or 4A Suv39h1 , we immunoprecipitated cellular RNAs associated with the wild-type or mutant Suv39h1 and assessed the levels of the major satellite repeats by dot-blot hybridization , which allowed us to evaluate the levels of repetitive DNA without amplification . As shown in Figure 4 , the signal for the major satellite repeats was clearly detected in precipitates from iMEFs expressing wild-type Suv39h1 but was severely diminished in precipitates from iMEFs expressing mutant Suv39h1-4A  , even though similar amounts of FLAG-Suv39h1-WT or −4A were immunoprecipitated  . Although our EMSA using full-length Suv39h1 suggested the involvement of Suv39h1 domains other than CD in RNA binding  , these data show that Suv39h1 binds major satellite RNA primarily via its CD . Suv39h1-CD’s nucleic acid binding is required for its interaction with major satellite RNAs in vivo . Whole cell lysates  of Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged wild-type  or mutant  Suv39h1 and FLAG immunoprecipitates  were subjected to immunoblotting using an anti-FLAG M2 antibody . Parental Suv39h dn iMEFs  and Suv39h dn iMEFs with an empty vector  were used as controls . RNAs associated with WT or mutant  Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEFs were precipitated with the anti-FLAG M2 antibody and subjected to dot-blot analysis using a labeled probe for major satellite repeats  and 18S rRNA  . Chromatin fractionation assays were performed using control iMEFs  and Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant Suv39h1  . Both Suv39h1-CD’s nucleic acid- and H3K9me3 binding activities are required for its interaction with major satellite RNAs in vivo . RNA immunoprecipitation  experiments using parental Suv39h dn iMEFs and Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing FLAG-tagged WT or mutant  Suv39h1  . An anti-FLAG M2 antibody was used to precipitate Suv39h1-interacting RNAs . 013 The interaction between Suv39h1 and major satellite RNAs was also examined by RT-qPCR analysis  . Suv39h1-WT stably bound major satellite RNAs , and this interaction was impaired for Suv39h1-4A . The interaction was also lost for Suv39h1-Y67A mutant , suggesting that H3K9me3 recognition by Suv39h1-CD is also required for the Suv39h1’s stable interaction with the major satellite RNAs . Intriguingly , Suv39h1-Y67A-4A interacted partially with the major satellite RNAs . This result does not seemingly fit with our model that Suv39h1-CD’s RNA- and H3K9me3-binding activities cooperatively function in Suv39h1’s chromatin targeting . However , we also found that Suv39h1-Y67A-4A loosely bound chromatin  . Considering this observation , Suv39h1-Y67A-4A may interact cellular RNAs without stable binding to chromatin . To determine whether the interaction between Suv39h1 and major satellite RNA occurs in the nucleus , we conducted chromatin fractionation assays . Cells were harvested and separated into soluble  and insoluble , chromatin-enriched  fractions , and endogenous Suv39h1’s chromatin association was evaluated by immunoblotting . We found that most of Suv39h1 was present in the chromatin-enriched fraction  . We confirmed that FLAG-tagged wild-type Suv39h1 expressed in Suv39h dn iMEFs was also associated with chromatin  . Interestingly , although Suv39h1 mutants  failed to interact with major satellite RNA in the RNA-IP experiments  , most of these mutants were also detected in the chromatin-enriched fractions  , suggesting that Suv39h1 mutants are still associated with chromatin even without being stably bound to major satellite RNA . Even more interestingly , a relatively higher level of Suv39h1-Y67A-4A was detected in the soluble fractions  . Together , these results confirmed that Suv39h1 interacts with major satellite RNA within the nucleus , but not in the cytoplasm , and that both RNA- and H3K9me3-binding activities contribute to Suv39h1’s chromatin association . Our rescue experiments of Suv39h dn iMEFs clearly indicated that Suv39h1-CD’s H3K9me3- and RNA-binding functions are both critical for establishing H3K9me3 marks in pericentric regions without preexisting H3K9me3 marks . On the other hand , we were still able to induce pericentric H3K9me3 and HP1 accumulation in Suv39h dn iMEFs complemented with 4A , Y67A , or Y67A-4A Suv39h1 mutants  , albeit less efficiently than in iMEFs expressing wild-type Suv39h1 . Thus , Suv39h1-CD’s function might be dispensable for maintaining H3K9me3 marks once established . However , Suv39h1-4A’s association with major satellite RNA was severely impaired in cells with rescued H3K9me3 and HP1  , suggesting that defective RNA binding may affect Suv39h1 dynamics in the pericentromere , where major satellite repeat elements are transcribed . Consistent with this possibility , a single K87A amino acid substitution in SUV39H1  was reported to enhance the SUV39H1 exchange rate in CH regions  , although the biological implication of this observation remains unclear . It is quite possible that Suv39h1 dynamics in the pericentromere were also affected in the mutant with defective H3K9me3 binding . To test the possibility that Suv39h1’s RNA- and H3K9me3-binding contribute to its dynamics on CH , we measured these dynamics in Suv39h dn iMEFs with stable expression of GFP-tagged wild-type or mutant Suv39h1  . As expected , GFP-Suv39h1-WT localized to the nucleus and formed foci on Hoechst-dense pericentric regions  . GFP-Suv39h1-4A , -Y67A , and -Y67A-4A also formed foci on Hoechst-dense regions  . However , semi-quantitative analysis to measure their heterochromatin enrichment  revealed that GFP-Suv39h1-Y67A-4A fluorescence was significantly increased in euchromatin compared to the wt  , suggesting that Suv39h1-Y67A-4A’s affinity to heterochromatic regions was decreased . GFP-Suv39h1-Y67A was also slightly less enriched on heterochromatin , and Y67A and 4A appeared to have an additive effect . As clearly shown in Figure 5C and D , GFP-Suv39h1-4A and -Y67A exchanged more rapidly than Suv39h1-WT  , and their mobile fraction was increased  . GFP-Suv39h1-Y67A-4A was much more dynamic , with an ~3 s recovery half-time and ~91% mobile fraction . GFP-Suv39h1-mut1 and -mut3  also exchanged more rapidly than GFP-Suv39h1-WT  . These data suggest that Suv39h1-CD’s binding of nucleic acid and of methylated H3K9 are both crucial for Suv39h1’s retention of heterochromatin in cells . Both Suv39h1-CD’s nucleic acid binding and H3K9me binding contribute to Suv39h1’s retention on heterochromatin . Subcellular localization of Hoechst staining and wild-type  or mutant GFP-Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEF cells . FRAP analysis of WT or mutant GFP-Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEFs . Wild-type and mutant GFP-Suv39h1 analysis . Protein levels of wild-type  or mutant GFP-Suv39h1 . *Endogenous Suv39h1; **FLAG-Suv39h1 . Arrowhead: GFP-Suv39h1 . The subcellular localization of Hoechst staining and WT , mut1 , and mut3 GFP-Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEF cells . FRAP analysis of WT , mut1 , and mut3 GFP-Suv39h1 in Suv39h dn iMEF cells . 015 Since the Suv39h1-4A mutant is defective in major satellite RNA binding and more dynamic on CH in vivo , it is highly possible that major satellite repeat transcripts contribute to the retention of Suv39h1 on heterochromatin . However , the above experiments could not rule out the possibility that Suv39h1-CD targets chromatin via its DNA-binding activity  . As shown in Figure 6A , introduction of major satellite repeat-specific LNA-DNA gapmers into Suv39h dn iMEFs that express GFP-Suv39h1 significantly and specifically decreased major satellite repeat transcripts . In major satellite knock-down cells , GFP-Suv39h1 on pericentric heterochromatin became more mobile than the control  . This data further supports the notion that major satellite RNAs contribute to Suv39h1 stability on pericentric regions . Major satellite RNAs contribute to Suv39h1’s retention on heterochromatin . qRT-PCR for major satellite RNAs or nuclear non-cording RNA NEAT1 transcripts in Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing GFP-suv39h1 transfected without or with a set of two LNA-DNA GapmeRs directed against the Forward and Reverse major satellite transcripts . FRAP analysis of GFP-Suv39h1 in the described cells  . In this study , we demonstrated that Suv39h1-CD not only recognizes H3K9me3 , but also binds RNA and DNA  , indicating that RNA may also be crucial for Suv39h1 recruitment/function . Indeed , our current data suggest that these two activities contribute to Suv39h1-mediated CH assembly , including the accumulation of H3K9me3 and HP1  and the retention of Suv39h1 itself on the pericentric regions  . Furthermore , we found that the HP1-binding and chromatin-binding activities of Suv39h1’s N-terminal region contributed to the Suv39h1-mediated pericentric H3K9me3 formation  . Collectively , our results demonstrated that the four different activities of Suv39h1 other than its lysine methyltransferase activity cooperatively regulate Suv39h1-mediated pericentric heterochromatin assembly . Independent work by another group shows that in vitro RNA binding activity is also associated with the CD of human SUV39H1  . We found that basic residues in Suv39h1-CD’s C-terminal α-helix are involved in binding RNA , and that Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding is distinct and independent of its recognition and binding of H3K9me3 . Considering the slower recovery of H3K9me3 in Suv39h dn iMEFs expressing Suv39h1-4A  than in those expressing Suv39h1-Y67A  , RNA-binding activity is particularly involved in recruiting Suv39h1 to H3K9me3-free chromosomal regions . Since pericentric regions consist of major satellite repeats , it is possible that nascent transcripts derived from such regions possess specialized properties that are recognized by Suv39h1 . Although SUV39H1 is reported to preferentially bind TERRA transcripts derived from telomeric repeats  , our study demonstrates that Suv39h1-CD also efficiently binds ACTB mRNA and does not show any particular sequence specificity  . Thus , it is unlikely that Suv39h1 targets specific chromosomal regions by recognizing a specific RNA sequence or structure . Pericentric transcripts with this kind of feature might become a target of Suv39h1 . Since another independent work now demonstrates that the N-terminal basic domain of mouse Suv39h2 also shows RNA binding activity and this activity is crucial for the recruitment and stabilization of Suv39h2 to heterochromatin . , Suv39h-family proteins may use a similar RNA binding activity for their targeting . In addition to its role in establishing H3K9me3 , Suv39h1-CD’s RNA-binding activity also contributes to Suv39h1’s stable association with H3K9me3-rich pericentromeric regions  . Knockdown of major satellite repeat transcripts  further supports the notion that RNA  binding of Suv39h1 contributes to its stability on chromatin . While we showed that Suv39h1-CD binds H3K9me3 peptide , its binding affinity is weaker than those of the CDs of HP1 proteins  . Suv39h1-CD’s RNA-binding activity might increase its affinity for H3K9me3-rich pericentric regions; alternatively , RNA binding might modulate Suv39h1-CD’s enzymatic activity . A recent report showed that Suv39h1’s CD inhibits its methyltransferase activity , and the CD’s binding of H3K9me3 is suggested to allosterically regulate Suv39h1’s enzymatic activity  . It is not clear how Suv39h1’s methyltransferase activity is controlled by the CD; however , it is possible that Suv39h1-CD’s RNA binding is also coupled with its allosteric regulation . Physical interaction between the CD and SET domains appeared to affect the CD’s RNA-binding activity: we demonstrated that full-length Suv39h1 bound RNA with a relatively higher affinity compared with Suv39h1-CD  . Considering the CD’s role in targeting Suv39h1 to H3K9me3-free chromatin regions , Suv39h1’s physical association with other factors such as chromatin-unbound non-coding RNAs or HP1 proteins may modulate the CD’s C-terminal α-helix to bind RNAs . H3K9me3 marks on CH have to be maintained during DNA replication , and given that Suv39h1 possesses a CD that recognizes H3K9me3 , a direct read-write mechanism involving Suv39h1 is proposed to maintain H3K9me3  . However , this mechanism does not fully explain the restoration of H3K9me3 in Suv39h dn iMEFs . HP1’s ability to bind RNA is SUMO-dependent , and an HP1-Ubc9 fusion molecule with enhanced sumoylation on the HP1 part can be targeted to the pericentric regions , even in Suv39h dn iMEFs  . Thus , HP1 can recruit mutant Suv39h1 to pericentric regions via binding between sumoylated HP1 and chromatin-bound major satellite RNA . Once Suv39h1-Y67A-4A is targeted to pericentric regions and deposits H3K9me3 , HP1 further increases its affinity for pericentric regions , and this positive feedback loop between HP1 and Suv39h1-Y67A-4A may be sufficient for this mutant Suv39h1 to mediate pericentric heterochromatin assembly . Wild-type and Suv39h dn iMEFs  were grown in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle’s Medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum , 0 . DNA fragments encoding Suv39h1-CD  were PCR-amplified from pCAG-IRES-Puro-FLAG-Suv39h1  . The GST-Suv39h1-CD  was only used for ITC . To express FLAG-tagged wild-type or mutant Suv39h1 , DNA fragments encoding FLAG-Suv39h1 were generated by PCR using pCAG-IRES-Puro-FLAG-Suv39h1 as the template , and the amplified FLAG-Suv39h1 was cloned into the TOPO pCRII vector . Suv39h1 mutagenesis was performed with the TOPO pCRII vector according to the manufacturer’s instructions  . Next , the wild-type or mutant FLAG-Suv39h1 was subcloned into the pMCs-IRES-GFP retrovirus expression vector  . To express GFP-Suv39h1 fusion molecules , the PCR-amplified DNA of wild-type or mutant Suv39h1 was subcloned into the pEGFP-C1 vector  , and the GFP-Suv39h1 fusion part was amplified again by PCR and subcloned into the BamH1 and SalI sites of pMCs-IRES-GFP from which IRES and the vector’s own GFP sequences were deleted . For retrovirus production , Eco-Pack 2–293 cells  were transfected with pMCs-FLAG-Suv39h1WT/mut-IRES-GFP or pMCs-GFP-Suv39h1WT/mut . The resultant retrovirus supernatants were used to infect control or suv39h dn iMEF cells  . To obtain populations expressing similar levels of wild-type or mutant FLAG-Suv39h1 or GFP-Suv39h1 , infected cells expressing the same levels of GFP were sorted by fluorescence-activated cell sorting  . To produce maltose binding protein  -fused recombinant Suv39h1  proteins , the corresponding Suv39h1 cDNAs were introduced into the pMAL-c2X vector  . Suv39h dn iMEFs were seeded onto a 10 cm dish the day before the experiment . Then , these labeled Suv39h dn iMEFs were infected with a retrovirus containing pMCs-FLAG-Suv39h1WT/mut-IRES-GFP , and incubated for 3 days at 37°C . FLAG-tagged Suv39h1wt/mut proteins were purified with anti-FLAG M2 affinity gel . 
Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex allow for the precise decoding of position in space . A prerequisite for this hypothesis is that grid cell activity does not critically depend on physical movement . In monkeys trained to maintain central fixation while covertly attending to a stimulus moving in the periphery we identified a significant population  of entorhinal cells with spatially structured receptive fields . This contrasts with recordings obtained in the hippocampus , where grid-like representations were not observed . Spatial representations , in the form of place cells and grid cells , have been identified in rodents  , bats  , macaque monkeys  and humans  . This idea resonates well with the recent demonstration that grid cells are active during the exploration of images with eye-movements , that is by overt attention  . These findings revealed that grid cells do not only track an animal's location in space , but can also represent the gaze position of the animal . Accordingly , grid cells in the entorhinal cortex are potentially capable of representing not only gaze location but the locus of attention in general . Here , we investigated whether firing fields of entorhinal cells are activated by movements of covert attention , in the absence of any physical movement . Attention functions as an important control for mental processes  ; accordingly , the hypothesis that grid cells participate in a range of cognitive functions predicts that grid cells may be activated by movements of attention . Here , we tested this prediction by recording from single units in the entorhinal cortex in monkeys trained to perform a task of covert attention . To examine spatial representations of cells in the entorhinal cortex during the movement of covert attention , we recorded the neuronal activity of 141 neurons in the entorhinal cortex of two rhesus macaque monkeys performing a covert attention tracking task . In order to examine spatial representations among entorhinal neurons , we evaluated the standard gridness measure  along with a novel analysis of the depth of firing rate modulation within the firing fields . Grid cells possess a regular firing field with increased firing rates at the nodes of equilateral triangles that evenly tile space . Whether or not a cell's firing field shows this regular pattern is usually evaluated by quantifying the 60° rotational symmetry of the 2D autocorrelation  . An important property of the gridness score is that the autocorrelation normalizes away the absolute firing rate modulation over space . That is , a cell that shows only a weak change in firing rate as a function of space might have the same gridness as a cell that shows a strong change in firing rate . The gridness score is therefore susceptible to noise , and homogeneous firing fields might produce high gridness scores by chance . Furthermore , for downstream read out of the grid signal the size of firing rate modulation , for example the signal to noise ratio is relevant . To better differentiate between noisy and grid-like firing fields , we computed for each cell an index of firing field modulation from its estimated rate map and a gridness score from its 2D autocorrelation function  . To assess the statistical significance of spatial representations in our recorded neurons , we computed the same indices on simulated cells with grid , place , or homogeneous firing fields . The rate function of the IP process was determined by the dot’s trajectory through a firing field and a noise parameter that varied the influence of noise for each simulated cell  . Simulated cells with a homogeneous firing field therefore control for any potential grid-like structure in the dot's trajectory . The resulting joint distributions of gridness scores and firing field modulation indices represent the likelihood of observing particular patterns of results . To differentiate grid cells , we computed the log likelihood ratio for comparing grid cells with place cells and homogeneous cells  . The resulting log likelihood ratio expresses how much more likely it is that a specific gridness score and firing field modulation index combination is produced by a grid cell compared to homogeneous or place cells . To control our false-discovery rate , we determined the appropriate threshold for classification performance on simulated non-grid cells . Out of 141 recorded neurons , we identified 20 cells  with a log likelihood ratio of >4 . 25 deciban  in favor of cells with spatially structured firing fields according to the two criteria of modulation index and gridness score . Cells classified as grid cells had a lower mean firing rate  compared to those classified as other cells  , and higher average gridness  and firing field modulation index values  . We also tested more conservative thresholds of 10 and 20 deciban  , which require more evidence to classify a cell as a grid cell . 0001 , 20 , 9 and 3 cells w . We also identified candidate cells that qualitatively resembled grid cells but which could also be explained by assuming a noisy place like firing field  . There are currently no reports of grid cells in the hippocampus and these neurons can therefore serve as a baseline to determine our empirical false discovery rate . Yet , in the entorhinal cortex  , we find significantly more grid-cells than expected from a FDR of 8 . To this end , we estimated the firing rate of each neuron along the dot’s trajectory and shuffled trajectory segments of 50 ms length  . First , combining spikes generated by different firing fields destroys the spatial structure of the individual firing fields . We therefore pooled all neurons in each recording session and calculated gridness scores and firing field modulation indices . None of these pooled units was classified as having a grid-like firing field  . For each recording session , we pooled all trajectories and computed gridness scores and firing field modulation indices by assuming an equal firing rate at all locations . None of these units was classified as a grid cell  . These controls demonstrate that our results are not due to an inherent grid-like structure in the trajectories . We conclude that the monkeys did not track the dot with small eye movements . Systematic biases in receptive field size and position caused by hemisphere or eccentricity specific processing should show up as systematic biases in firing rate across the visual field . The first quantifies the difference in firing rate between the right and left side of the visual field . While cells classified as grid cells  in both animals showed , on average , increased firing rates on the contralateral side of the visual field relative to the recorded hemisphere , these differences were not consistent across cells  . Second , we computed an index that compares average firing rate within the central five degrees of visual field around the fixation cross with the rest of the visual field . We again found no difference in firing rate  . In each monkey , we recorded from only one hemisphere , making an intra-monkey comparison of left/right visual field responses difficult . An important caveat is that our experimental conditions are most sensitive for firing fields with a size that allows multiple repetitions of the grid on the screen . Larger firing fields might appear like place or homogeneous cells , and firing fields with spacing smaller than the spacing of our trajectories will appear as spatially structured noise . We can therefore make no definitive statements about the percentage of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex , and our results likely represent a conservative estimate . Previous results demonstrated that , in stationary monkeys , grid cells can be activated by eye movements as monkeys visually explore complex scenes  . Here , our findings suggest that even eye movements are not required to activate cells with grid-like firing fields and that firing fields in the entorhinal cortex cells can represent the location of attention . The data presented here demonstrate that entorhinal cells with grid-like firing fields can similarly encode information apart from the animal’s current location . , we found a percentage of grid cells  that is lower than reports from recording in rats  . First , our task design is limited to detecting a subset of grid cells who’s firing fields match the size of the screen and the spacing of the dot’s trajectory , thereby potentially underestimating the true percentage of grid cells in macaque entorhinal cortex . Future experiments examining links between grid cell responses and behavior are critical for advancing our understanding of the function of the entorhinal cortex . Cycles were smoothed Hamiltonian cycles through a 23 × 23 grid with 1°spacing and therefore showed no center bias . Gridness scores were calculated using standard equations  , but we additionally validated that our implementation was highly accurate in distinguishing grid from non-grid cells in simulated data  . We computed a firing field modulation index to separate spatially structured firing fields from homogeneous noise-dominated fields . The firing field modulation index captures how much of the spatial variation in firing rate can be explained by the mean firing rate over space:ffm  = ( ∑igi2−∑iμ  2 ) /∑igi2where g is the two-dimensional rate map which is linearly indexed by i and μ  is the mean firing rate . Significance was established by computing the log10 likelihood ratio between the likelihood that a specific cell’s gridscore and firing field modulation index was produced by a noisy grid-cell or a cell with a noisy homogeneous or noisy place field like firing field  . The task required the monkeys to attend to a dot as it moved across the screen . The monkey's task was to maintain central fixation within a 4 . After the monkey fixated the cross for 300 ms , a moving dot appeared . Monkeys were taught the covert attention task with the following sequence of simpler tasks . First , monkeys were trained in a fixation task in which they were rewarded for keeping fixation for some duration on the central fixation cross . We conceptualized this matrix as a graph where neighboring grid nodes are connected such that the dot can move along the vertices of this graph . We discarded units that did not show stable firing behavior through an entire cycle . In total , we analyzed 69 units from monkey MP  and 72 units from monkey PW  . 2D autocorrelations were computed by shifting the firing rate map relative to itself and computing the coefficient of correlation for the overlapping maps . Our goal was to classify the reconstructed firing fields of recorded units as grid-like or not grid-like . In a second step , we estimated the joint distribution of these measures when the generating cell is either a noisy grid cell , a cell with a noisy homogeneous firing field or a noisy place field like cell . This allowed us to compute a log likelihood ratio that indicates whether or not a firing field is caused by a grid cell or by the other types of simulated cells . We then used the log likelihood ratio for classification of cells as grid cells or other cells . We simulated units by assuming that firing behavior is the result of an inhomogeneous Poisson process  . This process allows to model different firing rates for different positions of the moving dot . The rate function of the IP is determined by a firing field , through which the dot passes , and a noise component . Sampling from the IP defined by this rate function yields artificial spike trains caused by the underlying noisy grid field . We simulated spike trains from noisy grid-like , noisy homogeneous or noisy place field-like firing fields . Grid-like firing fields were created by placingλ  =∑pϵP𝒩 (  ,  , σ ) P=∪∀i∈Z 2D Gaussian distributions at the nodes of a grid that tiles space with equilateral triangles: where λ  is the firing rate of the grid field at location  , D is the distance between peaks , S is a scaling parameter , θ rotates the grid field , o shifts the grid field and σ specifies the size of each grid node . The grid component of the rate function represents the firing rate in the firing field along several randomly drawn dot trajectories . The dot trajectories transform the 2D firing field into a 1D time- and space-varying firing rate . The amount of noise and grid signal in the timeλ  =Rand space varying firing rate is governed by the parameter β signal : λGrid , λNoise are the grid- and noise-dependent components of the firing rate and are scaled to have an expected firing rate of 1 . βsignal , with 0 < βsignal <1 , specifies how much the grid signal contributes to the firing rate . λ  is therefore the firing rate of the IP . Spike trains were then generated by producing a sample from the IP defined by the time- and space-varying firing rate λ  . We simulated 5000 grid cell units for each of nine different βsignal values  . Parameters are given in degrees of visual angle and ranges were chosen to allow broad coverage of potential grid-like firing fields . We discarded all firing fields that had less than three peaks in the area covered by the trajectory; these are a priori not recognizable as grid-like . This resulted in 27 , 450 units whose firing rate was determined by a grid-like firing field . We also simulated units based on spatially structured firing fields that were non grid-like . We used place-like firing fields that had only one peak by setting the spacing parameter of the grid-like firing fields to larger than twice the screen size . This resulted in 37 , 500 simulated units whose firing fields ranged from completely uniform  to spatially structured fields  . To summarize , we simulated a large range of plausible grid fields that can be resolved by our trajectories . In addition , we simulated cells with noisy homogeneous firing fields and cells with a noisy place-like firing field . Computation of the gridness score is analogous to  . This was achieved by predicting for a large space of possible grid fields where the most central peaks and valleys would be in the 2D autocorrelation for this grid field . Grid fields were parameterized by grid spacing , aspect ratio , size of the peaks , rotation of the grid field and shift of the peaks along the ellipse . Ther  =∑αϵPN (  , μ  , σ ) +12∑αϵPN (  , μ  , σ ) P=μ  = ( t  xcosθ−t  ysinθ , t  xsinθ+t  ycosθ ) t  =  prediction r  was computed according to the following equations: where D is the grid spacing , θ is the rotation of the grid field , σ describes the size of the grid peaks , S relates to the aspect ratio of the grid field and L describes the shift of the peaks along the ellipse . The final gridness score was then the maximum of the gridness scores computed for these ellipses . To evaluate the power of the gridscore implementation to separate grid cells from non-grid cells , we computed gridness scores for all simulated units with grid-like firing fields . We then compared how well the gridscore separated units with firing rates determined by noise  from those whose firing rate was at least partly determined by the grid firing field  . To classify cells as grid-like we transform gridness scores and firing field modulation  index combinations into a single likelihood value . This mapping is derived via simulating many different random firing fields , place like firing fields or grid-like firing fields and computing gridness scores and ffm index values . This allows us to differentiate cells based on an estimate of the likelihood that a given gridness score and ffm index is generated by a grid-like firing field or other firing fields . To differentiate grid cells from non-grid cells , we computed the log likelihood ratio that compares the evidence that a gridscore and firing field modulation  combination is generated by a grid cell to the evidence that it is generated by a cell with a homogeneous or place field-like firing field:log10 ( Pgrid  /Pnongrid  ) The probabilities Pgrid and Pnongrid were computed from the simulation results with grid-like , place field-like and homogeneous firing fields . Since the gridness score and ffm index are continuous values , we locally pool simulated gridness scores and ffm indices to compute the likelihood . 15 as simulations of grid cells for the grid density estimate . Smaller βsignal values produced firing fields qualitatively close to those obtained with βsignal = 0 and thereby inflated the likelihood of observing small gridness scores and firing field modulation values from the grid cell simulation . The log likelihood ratio expresses how much evidence we have that a particular gridness score and firing field modulation combination is produced by a grid cell relative to the evidence for place cells or cells with a homogeneous firing field . To evaluate the power of the log likelihood approach to separate grid cells from non-grid cells , we compared how well the log likelihood value separated units with firing rates determined by noise  from those whose firing rate was at least partly determined by the grid firing field  . 
Reproducibility , however , has been a concern in neuroscience , particularly for measurements of mouse behavior . Here , we show that a standardized task to probe decision-making in mice produces reproducible results across multiple laboratories . We adopted a task for head-fixed mice that assays perceptual and value-based decision making , and we standardized training protocol and experimental hardware , software , and procedures . We trained 140 mice across seven laboratories in three countries , and we collected 5 million mouse choices into a publicly available database . Learning speed was variable across mice and laboratories , but once training was complete there were no significant differences in behavior across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories adopted similar reliance on visual stimuli , on past successes and failures , and on estimates of stimulus prior probability to guide their choices . These results reveal that a complex mouse behavior can be reproduced across multiple laboratories . Reproducibility has been a particular concern for measurements of mouse behavior  . Although the methods can be generally reproduced across laboratories , the results can be surprisingly different  . Behavioral assays can be difficult to reproduce across laboratories even when they share a similar apparatus  . This difficulty is not simply due to genetic variation: behavioral variability is as large in inbred mice as in outbred mice  . Difficulties in reproducing mouse behavior across laboratories would hinder the increasing number of studies that investigate decision making in mice . Our collaboration , International Brain Laboratory , 2017 , aims to leverage these approaches by exploring the neural basis of the same mouse behavior in multiple laboratories . The task difficulty is controlled by varying the contrast across trials . The probability of stimulus appearance at the two locations is asymmetric and changes across blocks of trials . Mice thus make decisions by using both their vision and their recent experience . We here present results from a large cohort of mice trained in the task , demonstrating reproducible methods and reproducible results across laboratories . In all laboratories , most mice learned the task , although often at a different pace . After learning they performed the task in a comparable manner , and with no significant difference across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories adopted a comparable reliance on visual stimuli , on past successes and failures , and on estimates of stimulus prior probability . These results reveal that a complex mouse behavior can be successfully reproduced across laboratories , enabling collaborative studies of brain function in behaving mice . We begin by describing training in the basic task , where stimuli on the left vs . This version of the task is purely visual , in that no other information can be used to increase expected reward . Initially , mice experienced only easy trials with highly visible stimuli  . For a typical mouse  , according to this automated schedule , stimuli with 25% contrast were introduced in training day 10 , 12% contrast in Day 12 , and the remaining contrasts in Day 13 . On this day the 50% contrast trials were dropped , to increase the proportion of low-contrast trials . To reduce response biases , incorrect responses on easy trials  were more likely to be followed by a ‘repeat trial’ with the same stimulus contrast and location . On each training day , mice were typically trained in a single uninterrupted session , whose duration depended on performance  . For instance , for the example mouse , session on Day 2 ended when 45 min elapsed with <400 trials; sessions on Days 7 , 10 , and 14 ended when trial duration increased to five times above baseline  . The latter sessions typically continued for an extra 19 ± 16 trials  longer . Once a session had >200 complete trials , the wheel gain was halved to 4 deg/mm and the reward was progressively decreased to 1 . It could be even below 50% because of no-response trials  , systematic response biases , and the bias-correcting procedure that tended to repeat trials following errors on easy trials  . Performance then typically increased over days to weeks until mice made only rare mistakes  on easy trials  . These criteria had to be fulfilled on three consecutive training sessions  . The training procedure , performance criteria , and psychometric parameters are described in detail in IBL Protocol for mice training  . The training procedures succeeded in all laboratories , but the duration of training varied across mice and laboratories  . There was substantial variation among mice , with the fastest learner achieving basic task proficiency in 3 days , and the slowest after 59 days  . These effects were similar across laboratories  . The number of days needed to achieve basic task proficiency was different across laboratories  . These differences in learning rates across laboratories could not be explained by differences in number of trials per session . To account for these possible differences , we measured training proficiency across trials rather than days  . For mice that learned the task , the average training took 10 . 6 thousands of trials  , similar to the 13 thousand trials of the example mouse from Lab 1  . The fastest learner met training criteria in one thousand trials , the slowest 43 thousand trials . To reach 80% on easy trials took on average ~7 . 4 thousand trials . Mice across laboratories were not systematically biased towards a particular side and the absolute bias was similar across laboratories  . 7% on average across institutions . The variability in performance across mice decreased as training progressed , but it did not disappear  . For example , between training days 15 and 40 , when the average performance on easy trials of the mice increased from 80 . 1% , the variation across mice  of performance on easy trials decreased from 19 . Conversely , the chance of misclassifying a fast-learning , top quartile mouse as a slow-learning , bottom quartile mouse , was only 7% . Overall , our procedures succeeded in training tens of mice in each laboratory  . Indeed , there was a 80% probability that mice would learn the task within the 40 days that were usually allotted , and when mice were trained for a longer duration , the success rate rose even further  . There was , however , variability in learning rates across mice and laboratories . We next ask whether the behavior of trained mice was consistent and reproducible across laboratories . Once mice achieved basic task proficiency , multiple measures of performance became indistinguishable across laboratories  . We first examined the psychometric curves for the three sessions leading up to proficiency , which showed a stereotypical shape across mice and laboratories  . The average across mice of these psychometric curves was similar across laboratories  . The lapse rates  were low  with no significant difference across laboratories . The slope of the curves , which measures contrast sensitivity , was also similar across laboratories , at 14 . Indeed , mouse choices were no more consistent within labs than across labs  . Variations across laboratories were also small in terms of trial duration and number of trials per session , even though we had made no specific effort to harmonize these variables . The median time from stimulus onset to feedback  was 468 ± 221 ms , showing some differences across laboratories  . Mice on average performed 719 ± 223 trials per session  . This difference was significant  but only in one laboratory relative to the rest . Variation in performance across laboratories was so low that we were not able to assign a mouse to a laboratory based on performance  . We thus trained a Naive Bayes classifier  , with 2000 random sub-samples of eight mice per laboratory , to predict lab membership from these behavioral variables . Finally , we trained and tested the classifier on the behavioral data , and found that it performed at chance level , failing to identify the laboratory of origin of the mice  . This consistency across laboratories was not confined to the three sessions that led to proficiency , and was observed both in earlier and in later sessions . In these three sessions , which could be earlier but not later than the ones analyzed in Figure 3 , mouse behavior was again consistent across laboratories: a decoder failed to identify the origin of a mouse based on its behavioral performance  . Finally , we repeated our analysis for sessions obtained after the mouse achieved proficiency in the basic task . We selected the first three sessions of the full task , and again found no significant difference across laboratories: mice had similar performance at high contrast , similar contrast threshold , and similar response bias across laboratories  . After training the mice in the purely sensory , basic task , we introduced them to the full task , where optimal performance requires integration of sensory perception with recent experience  . In these blocks , the probability of 0% contrast stimuli was doubled to match the probability of other contrasts . The transition between blocks was not signaled , so the mice had to estimate a prior for stimulus location based on recent task statistics . This task invites the mice to integrate information across trials and to use this prior knowledge in their perceptual decisions . Mice incorporated block priors into their choices already from the first sessions in which they were exposed to this full task  . To assess proficiency in the full task , we used a fixed set of criteria  . We considered performance in the three sessions in which mice reached proficiency on the full task  . For mice that reached full task proficiency , the average training from start to finish took 31 . 1 days , or 20 , 494 ± 10 , 980 trials  . The example mouse from Lab 1  took 19 days . Changes in block type had a similar effect on mice in all laboratories  . This value did not significantly differ across laboratories any more than it differed within laboratories ( one-way ANOVA F  = 1 . Finally , as expected there was a highly consistent change in overall bias , with curves shifting to the left in 20:80 trials and to the right in 80:20 trials  . Just as in the basic task  , a classifier trained on these variables could not predict above chance the origin laboratory of individual mice above chance  . This confirms that mice performed the full task similarly across laboratories . Lastly , we investigated the strategies used by the mice in the basic task and in the full task and asked whether these strategies were similar across mice and laboratories . Mice might incorporate non-sensory information into their decisions , even when such information is not predictive of reward  . Therefore , even when reaching comparable performance levels , different mice might be weighing task variables differently when making a decision . To quantify how different mice form their decisions , we used a generalized linear model  . In the model , the probability of making a right choice is calculated from a logistic function of the linear weighted sum of several predictors: the stimulus contrast , the outcome of the previous trial , and a bias term that represents the overall preference of a mouse for a particular choice across sessions  . In the case of the full task , we added a parameter representing the identity of the block , measuring the weight of the prior stimulus statistics in the mouse decisions  . We fitted the model to the choices of each individual mouse over three sessions by logistic regression . The model fit the mouse choices well and captured the relative importance of sensory and non-sensory information across mice and laboratories  . The model was able to accurately predict the behavior of individual mice , both in the basic task  and in the full task  . Weights for past choices were positive for both rewarded  and unrewarded previous trials  , suggesting that mice were perseverant in their choice behavior  . Indeed , previous choices more strongly influenced behavior in the full task , both after rewarded ( t  = 10 . 736 , p<10−6 ) and unrewarded trials ( t  = 4 . This behavior can arise from insensitivity to the outcome of previous trials and from slow drifts in the decision process across trials , arising from correlations in past choices independently of reward  . To disentangle these two factors , we corrected for slow across-trial drifts in the decision process  . This correction revealed a win-stay/lose-switch strategy in both the basic and full task , which coexists with slow drifts in choice bias across trials  . These effects were generally consistent across laboratories . These results reveal that a complex mouse behavior can be successfully reproduced across laboratories , and more generally suggest a path toward improving reproducibility in neuroscience . To study mouse behavior across laboratories , we developed and implemented identical experimental equipment and a standard set of protocols . Not only did mice learn the task in all laboratories , but critically , after learning they performed the task comparably across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories had similar psychophysical performance in a purely sensory version of the task and adopted similar choice strategies in the full task , where they benefited from tracking the stimulus prior probability . Behavior showed variations across sessions and across mice , but these variations were no larger across laboratories than within laboratories . First , we collected vast amounts of data: 5 million choices from 140 mice . We took great care in standardizing and documenting the behavioral apparatus and the training protocol  , to facilitate implementation across our laboratories and to encourage wider adoption by other laboratories . org , and include all >5 million choices made by the mice . Another element that might have contributed to success is our choice of behavioral task , which places substantial requirements on the mice while not being too complex . Previous failures to reproduce mouse behavior across laboratories typically arose in studies of unconstrained behavior such as responses to pain or stress  . There are of course multiple ways to improve on our results , for example by clarifying , and if desired resolving , the differences in learning rate across mice , both within and across laboratories . If desired , such methods could also be aimed at obtaining uniform numbers of trials and reaction times across laboratories . Through videography  one could classify these movements and perhaps identify behavioral strategies that provide insight in the performance of the task and into the diversity of behavior that we observed across sessions and across mice . These methods and protocols provide a path to training mice in this task and reproducing their behavior across laboratories , but of course we cannot claim that they constitute the optimal path . A reproducible behavioral task can be invaluable to establish the neural basis of behavior . For studying decision-making in primates , these include the tactile flutter comparison task  and the random dots visual discrimination task  . Now that we have developed this task and established its reproducibility across laboratories , the International Brain Laboratory is using it together with neural recordings , which are performed in different laboratories and combined into a single large data set . Video of the mouse was recorded with a USB camera  . On each trial , with the steering wheel locked , mice passively viewed a Gabor stimulus  presented on a small screen  . The stimulus appeared for ~10 s randomly presented at −35°  , +35°  , or 0°  and the mouse received a reward in the latter case  . For each trial , the mouse must use the wheel to move the stimulus from its initial location to the center to receive a reward . Once the mouse completed at least 200 trials within a session , the gain of the wheel for the following sessions was halved , to at 4°/mm . At the beginning of each trial , the mouse was required to not move the wheel for a quiescence period of 200–500 ms  . When the stimulus appeared , the mouse had 60 s to move it . To declare a mouse proficient in the basic task  we used two consecutive sets of criteria . Briefly , the 1a/1b criteria called for the mouse to reach the following targets in three consecutive sessions: 200/400 completed trials; performance on easy trials > 80%/90%; and fitted psychometric curves with absolute bias <16%/10% , contrast threshold <19%/20% , lapse rates < 0 . Additionally , the 1b criteria required for median reaction times across the three sessions for the 0% contrast trials to be <2 s . Once an animal was proficient in the basic task , it proceeded to the full task . Here , the trial structure was identical , except that stimuli were more likely to reappear on the same side for variable blocks of trials , and counterbiasing ‘repeat’ trials were not used . Each session began with 90 trials in which stimuli were equally likely to appear on the left or right  , after which the probability of the stimulus appearing on the left alternated between 0 . To declare a mouse proficient in the full task , its performance was assessed using three successive sessions  . For each of the sessions , the mouse had to perform at least 400 trials , with a performance of at least 90% correct on 100% contrast trials . Also , using a combination of all the trials of the three sessions , the lapses  had to be below 0 . Three different classifiers were used to try to predict in which laboratory a mouse was trained based on behavioral metrics: Naive Bayes , Random Forest , and Logistic Regression . Some labs trained more mice than others resulting in an imbalanced dataset . This imbalance was corrected by taking a random subsample of 8 mice from each laboratory 2000 times . The size of the subsample was chosen because eight mice was the lowest number of mice over all different datasets for which classification was performed . , 2011 used in a similar task . r  is defined as +1 when the previous trial was on the right and rewarded , -1 when on the left and rewarded , and 0 when unrewarded . W0 is a constant representing the overall bias of the mouse . When modelling the full task we also included the term Wbb   , which captures the block identity b  for trial i . 975 quantiles across samples . 
We identified hundreds of genes with intestinal expression undetected by previous approaches . Furthermore , spatial LCM enabled us to uncover previously unappreciated regionalization of gene expression in the planarian intestine along the medio-lateral axis , especially among intestinal goblet cells . Finally , we identified two intestine-enriched transcription factors that specifically regulate regeneration  or maintenance  of goblet cells . Growth and regeneration of intestinal branches require considerable remodeling of pre-existing tissue  . Only three cell types comprise the intestinal epithelium: secretory goblet cells , absorptive phagocytes  , and a recently identified population of basally located ‘outer’ intestinal cells  . Transcription factors expressed by intestinal progenitors  and their progeny have been identified  . The intestine may also play a niche-like role in modulating neoblast dynamics . Knockdown of several intestine-enriched transcription factors  causes reduced blastema formation and/or decreased neoblast proliferation  . Similarly , knockdown of the intestine-enriched HECT E3 ubiquitin ligase wwp1 causes disruption of intestinal integrity , reduced blastema formation , and neoblast loss  . Because these genes are also expressed by neoblasts and their progeny , careful analysis will be required to distinguish their functions in the stem cell compartment from cell non-autonomous roles in the intestine . Addressing these aspects of intestine regeneration and function necessitates development of approaches for purification of intestinal tissue . Previously , we developed a method for purifying intestinal phagocytes from single-cell suspensions derived from planarians fed magnetic beads , enabling characterization of gene expression by this cell type  . More recently , single-cell profiling of whole planarians has distinguished individual intestinal cell types , as well as transitional markers for neoblasts differentiating along endodermal lineages  . Both approaches have advanced our understanding of intestinal biology . However , methods that  avoid the potentially confounding effects of feeding and dissociation on gene expression and  overcome the need to sequence tens of thousands of planarian cells to identify intestinal cells  , would further enhance the experimental accessibility of the intestine . Here , we report the application of LCM for expression profiling of the planarian intestine . We discovered previously unappreciated regionalization and diversity of intestinal cell types and subtypes , especially amongst goblet cells , and hundreds of intestine-enriched transcripts not identified in recent single-cell profiling efforts . In addition , we identified 22 intestine-enriched transcription factors , including several required for production and/or maintenance of goblet cells , setting the stage for further studies of this cell type . The planarian intestinal transcriptome is a foundational resource for investigating numerous aspects of intestine regeneration and physiology . Finally , we assessed RNA integrity from laser-microdissected intestine and non-intestine from magnesium-treated , methacarn-fixed tissue  , stained only with Eosin Y to further minimize processing time  . Using our optimized conditions , we laser microdissected intestinal and non-intestinal tissue from four individual planarians   . For this study , we isolated tissue from the anterior of the animal  , where intestinal tissue is more abundant . We then extracted total RNA , conducted RNA-Seq , and identified transcripts that were preferentially expressed in intestinal vs . non-intestinal tissue  . Altogether , we detected 13 , 136 of 28 , 069 transcripts in the reference transcriptome  in non-intestine , medial intestine , and/or lateral intestine  . Of these , 1844 were upregulated in either medial or lateral intestine , or both  . Specifically , in medial intestine , 1748 transcripts were significantly upregulated  compared to non-intestine  . In lateral intestine , 1627 transcripts were upregulated  . Although most  transcripts were upregulated in both medial and lateral intestine , a small subset of transcripts was significantly upregulated only in medial  or lateral  intestine  , relative to non-intestine . To further define medial and lateral transcript enrichment , we calculated a ‘mediolateral ratio’ of the medial and lateral intestine/non-intestine fold-changes  . Although most transcripts were only modestly enriched  in medial  or lateral  intestine , a small number of transcripts was >1 . 5X enriched in medial  or lateral  intestine  . 143/162 transcripts  had detectable expression in the intestine  . Most transcripts were expressed uniformly throughout the intestine ( e . By contrast , transcripts predicted by RNA-Seq to be most enriched  in medial intestine branches ( e . In summary , using LCM together with RNA-Seq identified >1800 intestine-enriched transcripts , and revealed previously unappreciated regional gene expression domains in the intestine . Previously , we identified genes preferentially expressed by intestinal phagocytes  . To distinguish transcripts expressed by phagocytes and other intestinal cell types , such as goblet cells  , we directly compared log2 fold-change values for 1317 transcripts represented in our sorted phagocyte data  as well as laser-microdissected intestinal tissue   . 900/1 , 317 transcripts were significantly upregulated in both phagocytes and laser-microdissected intestine  . We analyzed expression of 82 of these transcripts using WISH  . As expected , the majority  of these transcripts , which included previously identified intestinal markers hnf-4 and nkx2 . 2  , displayed uniform , ubiquitous expression throughout the intestine , consistent with enrichment in phagocytes  . 358 intestine-enriched transcripts were not significantly up- or down-regulated in phagocytes  . WISH analysis suggested these transcripts are enriched in multiple intestinal cell types  . These transcripts are enriched in goblet cells , since their WISH expression pattern is highly similar to labeling of this subpopulation by lectins  , antibodies  , and other recently identified transcripts  . A third set of transcripts was enriched in basal regions of the intestine ( zgc:172053 , a homolog of human C-type lectin collectin-10 , and calmodulin-3  , Figure 2D ) . Finally , 59 intestine-enriched transcripts were significantly downregulated in phagocytes  . Rather , transcripts in this group were enriched only in goblet cells ( e . Furthermore , some goblet-cell-specific transcripts also appeared to be either medially ( e . Overall , validation by WISH identified 91 transcripts with a ubiquitous intestinal expression pattern; nearly all of these were upregulated in our sorted phagocyte data  . By contrast , most of the 25 validated goblet-cell-enriched transcripts  and 25 basal-cell-enriched transcripts  were not upregulated in sorted phagocytes . To further characterize intestinal cell types and subtypes , we used fluorescence in situ hybridization  to investigate co-expression of intestine-enriched transcripts . First , we verified the existence of three distinct cell types , using highly expressed phagocyte , goblet , and basal-specific markers  . Expression of the most phagocyte-enriched transcript , cathepsin La  , was ubiquitous throughout intestinal branches , but did not overlap with npc2 , a goblet-cell-enriched mRNA  , or with slc22a6 , a basally enriched transcript  . Goblet cell-enriched npc2 was expressed by cells with minimal slc22a6 expression  , further reinforcing that npc2+ goblet cells are distinct from ctsla+ phagocytes as well as slc22a6+ basal cells . Thus , slc22a6+ cells represent a novel cell type in the intestine that is distinct from visceral muscles , phagocytes , and goblet cells , and that has , to our knowledge , not been described by numerous previous histological and ultrastructural studies . Using additional markers , we also characterized previously unappreciated heterogeneity in gene expression amongst both goblet and basal cells . These included a subpopulation of goblet cells restricted to medial regions of the intestine , mainly localized to primary branches  , and a lateral subpopulation within secondary , tertiary , and quaternary branches  . We also identified subpopulations of basal cells in lateral regions of the intestine  . We also compared transcript enrichment in phagocytes/enterocytes , goblet cells , and basal cells/outer intestinal cells reported in three recent single-cell RNA-Seq  analyses of planarian cells  . In addition , phagocyte- , goblet- , and basal-cell-specific transcripts from scRNA-Seq studies mapped to similar quadrants in our phagocyte vs . laser-captured intestine plots  . Similarly , the majority of phagocyte-enriched transcripts detected in our earlier study  were also enriched in laser-captured intestine  . Furthermore , we identified 809 intestine-enriched transcripts that single-cell studies did not find to be enriched in the intestine   . Using WISH , we validated intestine enrichment for 22/28 of these mRNAs  , including transcripts with a uniform/phagocyte-like expression pattern  , and others with expression in goblet and basal cells  . We also note that over 1000 intestine-enriched transcripts in scRNA-Seq studies were not included in our LCM-generated transcriptome  . However , the vast majority  of these were enriched in multiple cell types  , suggesting considerable expression in non-intestinal tissue , consistent with our data . In order to globally characterize functional classes of genes expressed in the planarian intestine , we assigned Gene Ontology  Biological Process  terms to planarian transcripts based on homology to human , mouse , zebrafish , Drosophila , and C . elegans genes , and then identified over-represented terms among intestine-enriched transcripts  . As in our previous study of phagocyte expression  , here we also identified many intestine-enriched genes predicted to regulate cell shape , motility , polarity , and adhesion , including numerous cytoskeletal regulators , regulators of interactions with extracellular matrix , and partitioning defective 6  , which we previously demonstrated was required for planarian intestinal remodeling  . Finally , transcripts predicted to regulate responses to stress , microorganisms , and other stimuli were also intestine enriched  . Notably , 62 intestine-enriched transcripts  were previously found to be upregulated in response to shifting planarians from recirculating to static culture conditions , which causes microbiome dysbiosis  . Further supporting a role for the intestine in innate immunity and/or inflammatory responses , homologs of 99 S . mediterranea intestine-enriched transcripts were also upregulated by ingestion of pathogenic bacteria in Dugesia japonica , a related planarian species  . In order to understand whether putative functional roles above are performed by specific intestinal cell types or domains , we also analyzed GO term over-representation among transcripts enriched in scRNA-Seq data  , and in laser-captured medial and lateral intestinal tissue . Most functional categories predicted by LCM transcript analysis  were also enriched among phagocyte scRNA-Seq transcripts  . Intriguingly , many transcripts with the greatest medial  or lateral  enrichment  in the intestine were expressed by goblet cells  . For example , in support of previous suggestions that goblet cells promote luminal digestion  , we identified several goblet-enriched transcripts predicted to encode secreted regulators of protein catabolism  and triglyceride catabolism   . Kallikreins are expressed by goblet cells in rat , cat , and mouse intestines  , and have been implicated in inflammatory bowel disease and gastrointestinal cancers  , suggesting additional conservation of planarian goblet cell physiology . Consistent with this idea , a second planarian paralog , pgrp-1e  , is upregulated in the intestine  in response to Pseudomonas infection  . Fourth , a homolog of prohormone convertase  is enriched in goblet cells , as well as peripharyngeal cells surrounding the pharynx  . Although another planarian pcsk paralog , Smed-pc2 , processes neuropeptides required for germline development  , to our knowledge , no intestine-enriched prohormones have been reported . Nonetheless , pcsk1 expression suggests goblet cells may play an enteroendocrine-like role , as in other organisms . Finally , we were surprised to find that genes encoding planarian homologs of gel-forming mucins  were expressed not by goblet cells , but by peripharyngeal cells that send projections into the pharynx  . While additional goblet-enriched proteins with mucin-like roles might exist  , these expression patterns suggest that some planarian gel-forming mucin proteins are delivered to the intestinal lumen through the pharynx , and indicate a possible difference between planarian and vertebrate intestinal goblet cells  . Further illustrating the conservation of physiological roles , we found that the intestine expresses numerous homologs of transcripts that are enriched in human GI tissues  . Of these , we then identified 5561 transcripts  with human transcripts represented in the Human Protein Atlas  , in which transcripts whose unique or highly enriched tissue-specific expression defines 32 human tissues or organs  . Next , we calculated the percentage of all  and gut-enriched  RBH transcripts that were enriched in human tissues  , then expressed these percentages as a fold-enrichment ratio  to estimate similarity between the planarian intestine transcriptome and the transcriptomes of human tissues  . Strikingly , four of the five tissues to which the planarian intestine was most similar are involved in digestion  or energy storage/metabolism   . Duodenum- and small intestine-enriched RBH transcripts included predicted regulators of endodermal specification , bile transport , lipid metabolism , and glucose transport  . These observations reinforce the evolutionary conservation of intestinal gene expression and indicate that physiological roles performed by multiple human digestive organs are consolidated in the planarian intestine . Definition of the intestinal transcriptome enables identification of genes required for regeneration and functions of distinct intestinal cell types . Here , to initiate this effort , we focused on goblet cells , which expressed the majority of medially and laterally enriched transcripts we identified  . Ultrastructurally , planarian goblet cells possess numerous large proteinaceous granules and abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum  , resembling mammalian goblet cells that produce a protective mucous barrier and mount innate immune responses  . However , although numerous markers and reagents have been identified that label planarian goblet cells  , to our knowledge , genes required for goblet cell differentiation , maintenance , or physiological roles have not been reported . Initially , we used RNAi to assess the roles of 16 of the most medial and 8 of the most lateral goblet-enriched transcripts  . Alternatively , other intestinal cell types might play overlapping roles with respect to some functions . Reasoning that transcription factors  would regulate goblet cell generation and/or maintenance , we next focused on transcripts encoding 22 intestine-enriched TFs , only 10 of which were previously known to be enriched in intestinal cells  . Using FISH , we validated expression of all but one of these TFs in the intestine  . In a dsRNA-mediated RNA interference screen to specifically assess goblet cell regeneration , we found that knockdown of three TFs dramatically reduced expression of a goblet cell marker in regenerating head , trunk , and tail fragments  . This suggested a non-goblet-cell-specific role , and we did not investigate med21 further . In addition , goblet cells were less abundant in pre-existing regions of the intestine , particularly in lateral intestinal branches  . Regeneration of goblet cells was also reduced in new tail branches of gli-1  head fragments  and in anterior and posterior branches in gli-1  trunk fragments  . These effects on goblet cells were specific , since phagocytes  and basal cells  regenerated normally . Furthermore , in pre-existing intestinal regions  , goblet cell numbers were dramatically reduced or even completely absent . As with gli-1 , phagocytes and basal cells were unaffected  . Together , these results suggest that gli-1 regulates neoblast fate specification and/or differentiation of neoblast progeny into goblet cells in new intestinal branches , while RREB2 may control maintenance or survival of goblet cells after they initially differentiate . In uninjured animals , both gli-1 and RREB2 also reduced goblet cell numbers . Knockdown of gli-1 reduced goblet cell numbers in uninjured animals , especially in anterior , posterior , and lateral intestine branches  , but many goblet cells remained in medial , primary intestinal branches . In RREB2  animals , goblet cells were more dramatically reduced in all regions of the intestine  . Indeed , we found  that almost no lateral goblet cells remained in gli-1  uninjured animals , while again , medial goblet cells were much less affected  . By contrast , in RREB2  uninjured animals , reduction of both medial and lateral goblet cell numbers was pronounced , but nonetheless some lateral goblet cells remained  . Alternatively , as goblet cells fail to renew , remaining goblet cells might somehow migrate to more medial intestinal branches , or survival of goblet cells in primary branches could be prolonged . Conversely , RREB2 seems to be required for maintenance of both medial and lateral goblet cells , although lateral cell numbers are slightly less affected by RREB2 knockdown , compared to gli-1 . Finally , in regenerates , gli-1 and RREB2 knockdown affects medial and lateral goblet cells similarly  . Despite their specific effects on goblet cells , neither gli-1 nor RREB2 mRNAs are specifically enriched in this cell type . In fact , gli-1 , which was previously shown to be expressed by intestine-associated cells  , was most highly enriched in phagocytes , basal cells , and intestine-associated muscle cells  , but was also expressed at lower levels in some goblet cells  . RREB2 was enriched in goblet cells and basal cells , but expression was also observed in some phagocytes and intestine-associated muscle  . mRNAs encoding these TFs are enriched in basal regions of the intestine  . In addition , single-cell transcriptome data suggest PTF1A expression is elevated in differentiating neoblast progeny in the basal cell lineage  , and PTF1A also reduces basal intestinal cell numbers  . Thus , although our data support a role for gli-1 and RREB2 in goblet cells and/or their precursors , they also raise the possibility that basal cells  may non-autonomously influence goblet cell differentiation and/or survival . We asked whether goblet cell depletion affected planarian viability , behavior , or regeneration . In both gli-1  and RREB2  animals , some animals eventually lysed , curled , or died  , suggesting that goblet cells are required for viability . In both gli-1  and RREB2  regenerates , goblet cell depletion was robust  , but neither gene was required more generally for regeneration ( with the infrequent exception of reduced posterior blastemas in gli-1  regenerates , mentioned above ) , as the brain  , pharynx  , other intestinal cell types  , and new intestinal branches  all regenerated without noticeable defects . Together , these results suggest that goblet cells are broadly dispensable for regeneration , and that their primary role may be to regulate appetite or other aspects of intestinal physiology that contribute to viability . We have developed methods for applying laser-capture microdissection to planarian tissue , which we used to define gene expression and cell types in the intestine  . Comparison of gene expression in microdissected tissue to that of intestinal phagocytes  enabled identification of transcripts enriched in two other cell types: goblet cells and basal cells . We also discovered previously unappreciated intestinal cell-type diversity , especially amongst goblet cells , which reside in distinct medial and lateral intestinal domains . Finally , we identified intestine-enriched transcription factors that play distinct roles in goblet cell differentiation and maintenance , and found that depletion of goblet cells reduces planarians' willingness to feed and viability , with only negligible effects on regeneration of other intestinal cell types or non-intestinal tissues . Characterization of the planarian intestinal transcriptome provides a framework for several next steps . First , a detailed description of intestinal cell types will facilitate further studies of digestive cell types . Here , we identified two transcription factors , gli-1 and RREB2 , whose RNAi phenotypes suggest that distinct mechanisms govern differentiation and maintenance of goblet cells . We are unaware of studies in other organisms that have uncovered direct roles for either gli-1 or RREB2 in goblet cells . Similarly , although a second planarian RREB paralog , RREBP1 , is partially required for eye regeneration and may promote differentiation  , implication of RREB2 in goblet cell maintenance/survival suggests that Ras-mediated signaling could also influence cellular composition in the intestine  . Furthermore , although we focused on goblet cells , previous studies suggest that several genes  expressed by cycling neoblast subpopulations  may be required for differentiation of multiple intestinal cell types  . Second , functional analysis of intestine-enriched transcripts will help to resolve the intestine’s role in regulation of the stem cell microenvironment . Knockdowns of the intestine-enriched TFs nkx2 . Numerous intestine-enriched transcripts encode regulators of metabolite processing and transport , as well as putatively secreted proteins , suggesting multiple possible cell non-autonomous influences on neoblast dynamics . 2 and gata4/5/6-1 are also expressed by neoblasts and other cell types  , LCM also provides an efficient approach for clarifying which candidate stem cell regulators are dependent on these or other TFs for their intestine-specific expression . Previously , we developed a method for purification of intestinal phagocytes from planarians that ingested magnetic beads  . For example , because intestinal cells comprise only 1–3% of total planarian cells  , without prior enrichment SCS would potentially require analysis of tens of thousands of cells to reliably detect gene expression changes in the intestine . Development of a robust method for isolating intestinal tissue , and characterization of the intestinal transcriptome , will facilitate mechanistic studies in planarians . To facilitate exploration of the planarian intestinal transcriptome as a resource , we have developed a website , plangut . For LCM , planarians were 6–9 mm in length . For WISH and FISH , planarians were 2–4 mm in length . Planarians were relaxed in 0 . We separately captured medial intestine , lateral intestine , and non-intestine regions from all sections  per slide within 45–50 min . Finally , differentially expressed transcripts in intestinal vs . 01 in either medial or lateral intestine , relative to non-intestinal tissue . phagocyte analysis . 13 , 362 dd_Smed_v6 transcripts hit human sequences  with E-value ≤1×10−3 . Of 1844 intestine-enriched transcripts , 701 had RBHs in the human proteome . 699/701 intestinal transcripts’ RBH homologs were present in the HPA data; of these , 130 were enriched in one or more human tissues . 5 , 561/5 , 583 dd_Smed_v6 transcripts’ RBH homologs were present in the HPA data; of these , 1011 were enriched in one or more human tissues . The number of intestine and non-intestine RBH homologs enriched in each of 32 human tissues was calculated , and expressed as a percentage of total transcripts  with RBH homologs . Finally , ratio of the percentage of intestine-enriched RBH homologs to the percentage of all dd_Smed_v6 RBH homologs was then calculated to determine fold-enrichment for each tissue . 1%  of all dd_Smed_v6 transcripts had RBH homologs enriched in these tissues . 2/dd_2716_0_1  , gata4/5/6/dd_4075_0_1  , apob-1/dd_636_0_1  , apob-2/dd_194_0_1  , slc22a6/dd_1159_0_1  , gli-1/dd_7470_0_1  , and RREB2/dd_10103_0_1  . 9344 of 28 , 069 total transcripts and 1379 of 1844 intestine-enriched transcripts were annotated with GO terms . Enrichment for specific terms among all intestine-enriched transcripts , medially enriched transcripts , or laterally enriched transcripts was then evaluated with BiNGO   . Regional transcript enrichment was calculated as a ratio of fold changes in medial and lateral intestinal tissue: transcripts were considered to be medially enriched if FCmedial/FClateral > 1  , or laterally enriched if FCmedial/FClateral < 1  . We additionally restricted our summarization to terms that were annotated to more than one percent of transcripts that received annotations in each group: 1379/1844 intestine-enriched transcripts , 924/1221 medially enriched transcripts , or 455/623 laterally enriched transcripts . aureus infection  were queried  against 28 , 069 dd_Smed_v6_unique transcripts . 981 dd_smed_v6 transcripts hit with evalues < 1e-03 . 701/783 transcripts were present in the full 13 , 136 LCM dataset; 99/783 were intestine-enriched . 30 , 021 SMED_20140614 transcripts were mapped to 28 , 069 dd_smed_v6_unique transcripts , generating 22 , 889 dd_smed_v6_unique hits with evalues < 1e-03 . After removing duplicates , 19 , 338 transcripts remained . 741/19 , 338 transcripts were up- or down-regulated in planarians shifted to static culture  . 447/741 transcripts were present in the full 13 , 136 LCM dataset , and 62 were intestine-enriched . 01 for logFC in either medial or lateral intestine  , and 1498/2626 had FDR-adjusted p values < 0 . 05 for logFC in sorted phagocytes   . 1317/2626 had logFC >1 in either medial or lateral intestine . For Figure 5B , we identified 1067/1514 phagocyte-enriched transcripts with corresponding dd_Smed_v6 transcripts , including some with logFC 0 . We utilized data from gene expression analysis of single planarian cells from two recent studies  to identify dd_Smed_v6 transcripts enriched in specific intestinal cell types that were also represented in our 1844 intestine-enriched transcripts  and phagocyte expression data  . , we identified 391 phagocyte-enriched transcripts ( subcluster four or ‘enterocytes’ in Table S2  ; Fincher et al . , 2018 ) , 21 goblet-enriched transcripts  , and 30 basal-enriched transcripts  ; transcripts found in other intestinal subclusters were excluded . , we identified 92 phagocyte-enriched  transcripts and 27 goblet cell-enriched  transcripts that were also represented in our 1844 intestine-enriched transcripts and phagocyte expression data . For global comparison of transcripts enriched in laser captured intestine  , we included all transcripts enriched in intestinal cell types  in single cell studies  , without regard to cell type or enrichment in non-intestinal cell types . data , BLASTN was used to identify dd_Smed_v6 transcripts orthologous to ‘SmedASXL’ transcripts  . Smed-gli-1 has been previously studied  . Smed-RREB2 was most homologous to another planarian zinc finger protein , Smed-RREBP1  . 
Mormyrid fishes that can detect subtle variations in electric communication signals encode signal waveform into spike-timing differences between sensory receptors . In contrast , the receptors of species insensitive to waveform variation produce spontaneously oscillating potentials . We found that oscillating receptors respond to electric pulses by resetting their phase , resulting in transient synchrony among receptors that encodes signal timing and location , but not waveform . These receptors were most sensitive to frequencies found only in the collective signals of groups of conspecifics , and this was correlated with increased behavioral responses to these frequencies . These receptors fire a single , time-locked spike in response to an electric stimulus in all species previously studied  . Spiking receptors encode electric pulse duration into spike-timing differences , with some receptors responding to pulse onset and others to pulse offset  . In contrast , species insensitive to waveform variation have receptors that produce spontaneously oscillating potentials at frequencies up to 3 kHz  . These receptors are clustered into three groups , called rosettes , on each side of the head  . How oscillatory receptors encode electric communication signals is unknown . To gain insight into the neural basis of differences in perceptual abilities among species , here we investigate for the first time how oscillating receptors encode electric stimuli . These phase resets did not encode pulse waveform , explaining why species with oscillating receptors cannot behaviorally discriminate EOD waveform variation . To measure baseline activity rates , we recorded extracellular spontaneous activity from the sensory receptors of five species  . This sample included two species with broadly distributed spiking receptors , as well as Petrocephalus microphthalmus , whose receptor physiology was previously unknown . microphthalmus is behaviorally sensitive to EOD waveform variation , but it evolved this ability independently of other species with broadly distributed receptors  . We found that the receptors of P . microphthalmus indeed fire spikes  , just like other mormyrids with broadly distributed receptors and EOD waveform sensitivity . We also recorded spontaneous oscillations from rosette receptors of two species  . Spontaneous interspike intervals and spontaneous oscillation periods varied across species  . The peripheral sensory receptors of some mormyrid species fire spikes , whereas the receptors of other species produce spontaneously oscillating potentials . An extracellular recording of spontaneous spikes from a receptor of Petrocephalus microphthalmus . Box plots of spontaneous interspike intervals in the receptors of three species . An extracellular recording of spontaneously oscillating receptor potentials in Petrocephalus tenuicauda . Box plots of spontaneous oscillation periods in the receptors of two species . tenuicauda , the amplitude of oscillatory activity varied from 0 . We only measured the frequency of spontaneous activity if the oscillation amplitude was at least 2 . 49 of 69  receptors met these criteria . The receptors of Petrocephalus soudanensis had spontaneous oscillation amplitudes of 0 . 003 Oscillating receptors are organized into three rosettes on each side of the head   . Spontaneous oscillatory activity is not synchronized across receptors . Receptor locations on the right side of one P . tenuicauda . Top , simultaneous extracellular recordings from a receptor in the left kehlrosette  and a receptor in the left augenrosette of one P . tenuicauda . The joint probability distribution of instantaneous phases of the first of five recordings from one receptor and the last of five recordings from the other receptor , and vice versa . tenuicauda . 004 To determine whether the oscillations of receptors in different rosettes were synchronized with one another , we collected simultaneous recordings from pairs of receptors , each located in a different rosette  . Next , we constructed probability distributions of the phases for each receptor in pair-wise recordings . To evaluate statistically the possibility of phase coupling between receptors in different rosettes , we determined the circular correlation coefficient  of the instantaneous oscillatory phases between each receptor pair  . Across 14 receptor pairs in one P . Therefore , oscillatory phase was independent across receptors in different rosettes . Therefore , in agreement with a previous report  , oscillatory activity of individual receptors is not correlated within or across rosettes . To understand sensory encoding by these receptors , we recorded responses to focal stimulation with monopolar square pulses  . We delivered both positive- and negative-polarity pulses to mimic the stimulation that receptors at different locations on the fish's body would experience during a natural global stimulus  . As shown previously , spiking receptors responded with a single time-locked spike in response to inward current transients  , which occur at the onset of a positive-polarity pulse and at the offset of a negative-polarity pulse  . Spike probability depended on pulse duration  but was high for stimulus durations within the range of total durations of conspecific EODs  . Spiking receptors encode pulse duration , whereas oscillating receptors do not . Extracellular recordings from a spiking receptor in B . In both cases , the difference in spike times  matches the pulse duration . Spike probability vs square pulse duration for responses to positive-polarity stimuli for spiking receptors of three species . Spike-timing differences between responses to positive- and negative-polarity stimuli vs square pulse duration for the same receptors in C . Extracellular recordings from an oscillating receptor in P . In both cases , the timing difference  between oscillatory peaks elicited by opposite-polarity stimuli does not match the pulse duration . Evoked oscillation amplitudes normalized to prestimulus oscillation amplitudes vs square pulse duration for oscillating receptors . Curves for each receptor are shown in gray , and the averages across receptors are shown in black . Oscillation-timing differences between responses to positive- and negative-polarity stimuli vs square pulse duration for the same receptors shown in G . Extracellular recordings from an oscillating receptor in P . tenuicauda in response to a head-positive  conspecific EOD waveform  and the reverse-polarity waveform  at an intensity of 316 nA  and 32 nA  . Vector strength vs phase difference of oscillatory responses to opposite-polarity conspecific EODs in P . tenuicauda . Each point represents the mean of responses from six receptors . Vector strength was averaged across stimulus polarity within each receptor before averaging across receptors . The stimulus intensities that evoked significantly different phase resets for opposite polarity EODs were 56 , 178 , and 316 nA . Phase differences between responses to positive- and negative-polarity stimuli vs square pulse duration for oscillatory responses to monopolar square electric pulses . 005 Oscillating receptors responded to square pulses with phase resets and amplitude increases  , which occurred both in receptors with high-amplitude spontaneous oscillations as well as in receptors with little to no spontaneous oscillatory activity . At the stimulus duration that elicited the maximum oscillation amplitude in each receptor , there was a positive correlation between spontaneous and stimulus-evoked oscillation amplitudes ( Spearman R = 0 . Spiking receptors encode square pulse duration into differences in spike times between receptors  . For instance , the differences in spike times elicited by each polarity of a square pulse of durations 0 . Across all spiking receptors , this spike-timing difference perfectly matched pulse duration for pulses longer than ∼0 . Such precise coding of stimulus-timing cues mediates the demonstrated ability of species with spiking receptors to detect EOD waveform variation  . In oscillatory receptors , positive- and negative-polarity square pulses elicited phase resets that differed by ∼180°  . To determine whether oscillating receptors could encode pulse duration in a manner similar to the spike-timing differences of spiking receptors , we measured the difference in times of oscillatory peaks evoked by opposite-polarity pulses  . For pulse durations exceeding receptors' intrinsic oscillation periods  , the phase could be reset in response to each stimulus edge . In these instances , we measured the oscillation-timing difference elicited by the onset of a positive-polarity pulse and the offset of a negative-polarity pulse . However , pulses of shorter durations did not elicit phase resets to each stimulus edge , since these durations are shorter than receptors' intrinsic oscillation periods . For these stimulus durations , we measured the oscillation-timing differences after stimulus offset  . This means that oscillatory responses could not encode pulse durations found in conspecific EODs  . However , oscillating receptors would be able to encode the location of the stimulus based on which receptors reset to a peak first , owing to differences in stimulus polarity . To confirm that natural EOD waveforms also elicit oscillatory phase differences of ∼180° , we presented conspecific EODs at varying intensities to oscillating receptors  . Spiking receptors have been reported to be most sensitive to the frequencies occurring in conspecific EOD waveforms  . To confirm this finding in our test species , we compared the frequency sensitivity of individual spiking receptors to the power spectra of conspecific EODs  . We defined a receptor's best frequency as the frequency with the lowest threshold . In general , spiking receptors had best frequencies that were close to the frequencies with the highest power in conspecific EODs  . On average , the best frequencies of spiking receptors were within one octave of the peak power frequencies of conspecific EODs  . Frequency sensitivity of spiking receptors is matched to conspecific EOD power spectra , whereas frequency sensitivity of oscillating receptors is not . Representative EODs from four species with spiking receptors  , and two species with oscillating receptors  , plotted head-positive up with normalized peak-to-peak heights . Average power spectra of EODs from species with spiking receptors  and from species with oscillating receptors  . Frequency tuning curves for representative spiking receptors from four species . Threshold was determined as the lowest intensity stimulus that elicited a spiking response . The frequency with the lowest threshold was taken as the receptor's best frequency . Thresholds were defined as dB relative to the threshold at each receptor's best frequency . Open symbols indicate stimuli for which there was no response from the receptor at the intensity shown , but responses to higher intensities were not recorded . Frequency tuning curves for a representative oscillating receptor from P . Vector strength equals 1 when the phase of the oscillatory reset is the same for each stimulus presentation and 0 when the phase of oscillatory reset is completely random for each stimulus presentation . The frequency that elicited the highest vector strength was taken as each receptor's best frequency . Average receptor best frequency vs average conspecific EOD peak power frequency for all species studied . Best frequencies were averaged across responses to positive- and negative-  polarity stimuli in oscillating receptors . tenuicauda . Closed symbols denote species with spiking receptors and open symbols denote species with oscillating receptors . Vector strength of oscillating responses to positive-polarity single-cycle bipolar sine stimuli at multiples of receptors' spontaneous oscillation periods at three intensities in P . tenuicauda . 006 To determine the frequency sensitivity of oscillating receptors , we also collected frequency tuning curves from oscillating receptors . Due to the oscillatory nature of both stimulus artifact and response , we could not use the same constant-frequency stimuli that we used to characterize frequency tuning in spiking receptors . We defined an oscillating receptor's best frequency as the frequency that elicited the largest vector strength . Oscillating receptors were most sensitive to frequencies well below the peak power frequency in conspecific EODs  . On average , the best frequencies of oscillating receptors were more than two octaves below the peak power frequencies of conspecific EODs  . At the stimulus intensity where tuning was sharpest  , the best frequencies  of oscillating receptors roughly corresponded to their intrinsic oscillation frequencies  , suggesting that their frequency tuning resulted from resonance with their spontaneous oscillations . Oscillatory phase-locking was strongest for stimulus durations matching each receptor's spontaneous oscillation period  . Electric communication signals consist of the EOD produced at variable IPIs . To investigate IPI coding in the three species with spiking receptors included in this study , we presented receptors with a pair of 0 . 2-ms duration monopolar square pulses at a range of IPIs  . Spiking and oscillating receptors encode interpulse intervals into interspike and interoscillation intervals , respectively . Extracellular recording from a spiking receptor in B . 30-ms IPI  . A spike occurred in response to the first pulse only for the 0 . 30-ms IPI . The probability that a receptor fired spikes to both positive-polarity pulses in a pair vs IPI for spiking receptors from three species . Interspike interval vs positive-polarity IPIs for the same spiking receptors shown in C . The receptors of P . microphthalmus did not fire spikes in response to both pulses when IPIs were shorter than 1 ms , so there are no data points at these intervals . Extracellular recordings from an oscillating receptor in P . tenuicauda in response to a single pulse  and to a pair of pulses with 3 . 0-ms IPI  . 30-ms IPI . tenuicauda receptors to positive-polarity stimuli . 007 The probability that a receptor fired a spike in response to both pulses in the pair decreased at the shortest intervals tested  . However , receptors of all species reliably fired spikes at the reported minimum IPIs produced by individual fish   . In agreement with previous studies  , spiking receptors encoded IPIs into interspike intervals within receptors , with the interspike intervals exactly matching the IPI  . Spiking receptors can therefore faithfully encode the IPIs generated by individual signaling fish into interspike intervals within receptors . To understand IPI coding by oscillatory receptors , we analyzed the amplitude and phase of oscillations as a function of the interval between pulse pairs  . At the shortest intervals tested , the stimulus artifact of the second pulse obscured the oscillatory response to the first pulse  . Thus , to investigate how oscillating receptors encode IPIs , we measured interoscillation intervals as the time between the first oscillatory peak following a single-pulse stimulus and the first oscillatory peak following the second pulse in the paired stimulus  . Phase resets in oscillatory receptors serve to transiently synchronize the population in response to a stimulus  . Because oscillation frequency varies across receptors , responses rapidly desynchronize  . For instance , in response to a single square pulse , across-receptor synchrony is greatest for the first poststimulus oscillatory peak  . In response to a pair of pulses , across-receptor synchrony is high immediately following each pulse and rapidly decreases  . To further illustrate this , we recorded responses to a single conspecific EOD of normal and reversed polarities from all 36 receptors in a single rosette of one P . tenuicauda  . Responses from four of these receptors are shown in Figure 6C . Notice that again , across-receptor synchrony is greatest for the first poststimulus oscillation , but then rapidly declines . Summing responses across all 36 receptors resulted in a single , distinct peak immediately following the stimulus  , due to a transient synchronization across receptors followed by increasing asynchrony of receptors oscillating at different frequencies . In this way , the electrosensory system could use synchrony across the population of receptors to distinguish between stimulus-evoked and spontaneous oscillation cycles . Synchrony across receptors is greatest for the first poststimulus oscillation and then rapidly declines . Responses of three oscillating receptors in P . Same as A for responses of the same three receptors to a 3-ms IPI stimulus . Note the transient increase in synchrony across receptors just after both stimulus pulses . tenuicauda in response to a normal-  and reversed-  polarity conspecific EOD . Recording traces were normalized to the amplitude of the first poststimulus oscillation . The sum of the normalized responses of all 36 receptors in the right augenrosette of one P . tenuicauda  to a normal- and reversed-polarity conspecific EOD  . The enhanced synchrony across receptors for the first poststimulus oscillatory peak results in the largest peak in the summed response just after the stimulus . 008 Oscillating receptors also encoded IPI into amplitude changes  . At the highest intensity tested , oscillation amplitudes were attenuated relative to single-pulse responses for IPIs below 1 ms  . 5-ms IPIs  . Phase-locking , as measured by the vector strength of oscillatory responses to the second pulse in the pair , also depended on IPI and stimulus intensity  . 5 ms , which is near the intrinsic oscillation periods  of receptors in this species . This is suggestive of resonance in which stimulating an oscillating receptor with a pair of pulses separated by the receptor's intrinsic oscillation period results in stronger responses . Oscillating receptors produce enhanced oscillation amplitudes at submillisecond IPIs matching their intrinsic oscillation periods . Extracellular recording from an oscillating receptor in P . tenuicauda in response to a pair of monopolar square pulses of 0 . 50-ms IPI  and 5 . 0-ms IPI  . We then averaged amplitudes across all presentations of the same stimulus . Oscillation amplitude evoked by the second pulse in the pair normalized to the amplitude evoked by a single pulse vs IPI for the responses of P . tenuicauda receptors at three stimulus intensities . Same as C for IPIs corresponding to multiples of oscillating receptors' intrinsic oscillation periods . Vector strength vs IPI for oscillating responses to positive-polarity stimuli at three intensities in the same receptors shown in C and D . Same as E for IPIs corresponding to multiples of oscillating receptors' intrinsic oscillation periods for the same receptors shown in C–E . 009 To test this hypothesis , we presented receptors with IPIs equal to multiples of their intrinsic oscillation periods . As stimulus intensity decreased , oscillatory responses became more selective for IPIs equal to the intrinsic oscillation period  . At the lowest intensity tested , the phase-locking was also greatest for IPIs matching receptors' intrinsic oscillation periods  . These results reveal that oscillating receptors produce the largest responses for IPIs matching their intrinsic oscillation periods . Why would some species of mormyrids have receptors that are maximally sensitive to signals too short to be produced by individual fish ? Could the oscillations in rosette receptors be tuned to these shorter IPIs ? To test this hypothesis , we first recorded 20 min of electric signaling from individual fish of a species with spiking receptors   and from individual fish of a congeneric species with oscillating receptors   . Oscillating receptors are most sensitive to submillisecond IPIs occurring in group communication signals . A histogram of the IPIs recorded over 20 min from a single fish with spiking receptors  . We then calculated IPIs as the time between successive EODs . Inset , electrical recording from the same group of fish illustrating submillisecond IPIs . EOD polarity and amplitude depend on fish's orientation and location relative to the recording electrode . microphthalmus receptors  vs IPI superimposed on the IPI histogram from B . Same as in A and B for a congeneric species with oscillating receptors  . tenuicauda receptors  vs IPI superimposed on the IPI histogram from E . 010 To determine whether spiking and oscillating receptors could encode the very short IPIs in group signals , we compared the magnitude of receptor responses with the IPIs recorded from a group of the corresponding species  . The spiking receptors of P . In contrast , oscillating receptors responded most strongly to 0 . Thus , one advantage for species with high-frequency oscillating receptors may be the ability to detect very short IPIs in group communication signals that spiking receptors cannot encode due to refractoriness . If oscillating receptors facilitate detection of communication signals produced by a group of individuals , then species with oscillating receptors should exhibit selective behavioral responses to submillisecond IPIs , and species with spiking receptors should not . Behavioral responses reveal tuning to submillisecond IPIs in a species with oscillating receptors . The EOD rate over time in response to a single conspecific EOD  and a train of 10 conspecific EODs at constant 0 . tenuicauda . Stimuli were delivered at time = 0 s . 2 s before stimulus onset . 2 s before stimulus onset and ending 1 . 2 s after stimulus offset . A normalized measure of EOD rate increases to constant IPI trains of conspecific EODs vs IPI during behavioral playback experiments for a species with oscillating receptors  and a congeneric species with spiking receptors  . Same as C for EOD rate decreases . Increases in EOD rate have been interpreted to be an orienting response to a novel stimulus  . Regardless of an individual's response pattern , we measured the maximum increase and decrease in EOD rate in response to each stimulus and compared the fish's electric signaling activity evoked by IPI stimuli to that evoked by a single conspecific EOD . A species with oscillating receptors produced the strongest EOD rate increases at the shortest and longest IPIs tested  . The shortest IPIs  correspond to those found only in signals recorded from groups of fish . A congeneric species with spiking receptors  responded differently to IPIs than the species with oscillating receptors ( repeated-measures ANOVA , interaction between species and IPI , F  = 3 . The species with spiking receptors produced the greatest EOD rate increases for IPIs in the intermediate range of those tested , which roughly correspond to the minimum IPI produced by individual fish . In general , the species with oscillating receptors tended to produce weaker EOD rate decreases in response to the IPI stimuli than to single pulses  . In contrast , the species with spiking receptors tended to produce stronger EOD rate decreases for IPI stimuli than for single EODs  . These very short IPIs elicit stronger responses in oscillating receptors and greater EOD rate increases in species with oscillatory receptors . Since spiking receptors cannot encode these submillisecond IPIs , we propose that oscillations are an adapation for detecting large groups of conspecifics . Further , oscillating receptors are most sensitive to submillisecond IPIs that match their oscillation period  . First , these submillisecond IPIs are too short for spiking receptors to reliably encode . Indeed , playback experiments demonstrated that a species with oscillating receptors responded strongly to submillisecond IPIs within the range of enhanced receptor sensitivity . Here , we show that electrical oscillations in sensory receptors can act as peripheral filters for temporal patterns . Spiking receptors are most sensitive to stimulus frequencies near those in conspecific EODs  . Spiking receptors thus appear to be matched filters for conspecific EODs . In fact , studies on species with spiking receptors have revealed behavioral sensitivity to individual differences in conspecific EODs  . In contrast , oscillating receptors exhibit matched filters not for EOD waveforms , but for IPI patterns in group signals . A receptor's oscillation frequency is predictive of its frequency tuning . However , oscillating receptors are tuned to much lower frequencies than the peak power frequencies of conspecific EODs . Furthermore , these oscillation frequencies confer enhanced sensitivity to IPIs that can only be produced by groups of fish . Therefore , whereas spiking receptors are specialized for detecting signals from individuals , oscillating receptors appear specialized for detecting signals from a large group . Importantly , the submillisecond IPIs to which oscillating receptors are most sensitive do not necessarily reflect concerted signaling amongst the group . These fish , with spiking receptors and associated sensitivity to EOD waveform variation , form schools both in laboratory and natural settings  . Indeed , damped oscillations in spike probability following an electrical stimulus in mormyrid spiking receptors may reflect subthreshold oscillations related to frequency tuning  . Furthermore , whether the oscillations that can be recorded extracellularly from rosette receptors represent collective spiking activity or non-spiking oscillatory potentials in sensory cells at the base of the receptor pore is also unknown . Importantly , the oscillations in mormyrid rosette receptors are distinct from oscillations in hair cells and other electroreceptors due to their larger amplitudes and higher frequencies , as well as the fact that they respond to stimuli with phase resets . To our knowledge , the phase resets reported here are the first observed in any oscillating sensory receptor . These stimulus-evoked phase resets result in transient synchrony across oscillating receptors . Since receptors have different intrinsic oscillation frequencies , this synchrony will rapidly decrease . Therefore , pooling the responses of multiple receptors could mediate synchrony detection and allow for the disambiguation of stimulus-evoked and spontaneous oscillations . These species' behavioral sensitivity to EOD waveform variation is due in part to the precise encoding of waveform timing cues by spiking receptors . In all three species that have been studied , rosette receptors produce high-frequency oscillations  . Central processing of oscillatory receptor inputs could contribute to distinguishing self-generated stimuli from external stimuli while maximizing sensitivity to external stimuli . In the absence of an electric stimulus , the spontaneous oscillations across receptors are asynchronized . When the fish emits its own EOD , receptors in all rosettes will experience stimuli of identical polarity based on the direction of current flow through the receptors  . This means that oscillations in all receptors will reset to the same phase in synchrony . In this case , subtracting the oscillatory responses of receptors on opposite sides of the body would result in cancellation . In contrast , in the presence of an external electric stimulus , receptors at different locations on the fish's body will experience opposite-polarity stimuli and will reset to opposite phases . Subtraction of these opposite-phase responses would increase oscillation amplitudes relative to single-receptor oscillations , thus potentially increasing sensitivity to external signals . Most mormyrine species have broadly distributed receptors , ELa/ELp , and behavioral sensitivity to EOD waveform variation  . In contrast , most petrocephaline species have receptors organized into rosettes as well as an EL midbrain region , and they are not sensitive to EOD waveform variation  . microphthalmus , which has broadly distributed receptors and ELa/ELp , and it can also detect EOD waveform variation  . Here , we show that the broadly distributed receptors of P . microphthalmus fire spikes and display similar physiological properties to the spiking receptors of all mormyrine species studied  . We used fish of both sexes . EODs and receptor frequency tuning data from B . Extracellular recordings from single receptors were obtained using previously reported methods  . We then placed the fish in a 20 × 12 . After receptor recordings , fish were allowed to recover completely from paralysis before being returned to their home tank . We placed the electrode next to , but not quite touching , individual receptors . Spiking responses and some oscillating responses were also low-pass filtered  during recording . We obtained simultaneous recordings from pairs of oscillating receptors using the same glass electrodes as single-receptor recordings . We selected one spontaneously oscillating receptor in each rosette , for a total of 14 possible pairs across six rosettes . To study how receptors encode electric pulse waveform , we recorded responses to 10 or 25 repetitions of monopolar square pulses of durations ranging from 0 . We also delivered previously recorded conspecific EOD waveforms . For each receptor , we randomly selected an EOD stimulus from a library of 10 conspecific EOD waveforms . To measure frequency tuning in spiking receptors , we presented 15 repetitions of 90-ms duration sinusoidal stimuli of frequencies ranging from 0 . Because we could not separate a continuously oscillating response from a continuously oscillating stimulus artifact , we had to use different stimuli to measure frequency tuning in oscillating receptors . 2 to 84 kHz to measure frequency tuning of oscillating receptors . We also delivered single-cycle bipolar sine wave stimuli at durations equal to multiples  of each receptor's spontaneous oscillation period . tenuicauda . To study how spiking and oscillating receptors encode IPIs in communication signals , we presented 10 repetitions of a pair of monopolar square pulses , with each pulse 0 . We used IPIs ranging from 0 . For oscillatory receptors , we also used IPIs equal to multiples  of each oscillating receptor's intrinsic oscillation period . We used both positive and negative polarities at an intensity that reliably elicited responses in each receptor  . To quantify the responses of spiking receptors , we detected spikes by finding the peak voltage that crossed a manually set threshold specific to each receptor . To measure the responses of oscillating receptors , we first median filtered the recordings using a filter width of 0 . Next , we detected the first seven oscillatory peaks after stimulus offset on each stimulus sweep , which allowed us to measure the first six poststimulus oscillation periods . The time between the first and second poststimulus peaks represented the poststimulus oscillation period . We recorded spontaneous activity of each receptor five times for 1 s each . For a given spiking receptor , we measured the interspike intervals on each repetition and then averaged across recordings . For oscillating receptors , we averaged the fast Fourier transform  of the oscillatory activity across five repetitions , and then used the peak of the averaged FFT as the receptor's spontaneous oscillation frequency . We used the inverse of the spontaneous oscillation frequency as the spontaneous oscillation period . We measured the spontaneous oscillation amplitude of each receptor by subtracting the voltage at each oscillatory trough from the voltage of the preceding oscillatory peak , and then averaging these amplitude values across the spontaneous recordings . If spontaneous activity was recorded more than once from the same receptor , we averaged measurements across all recordings . To determine whether the oscillatory activity of different receptors was correlated , we obtained the instantaneous phase of oscillations of two receptors recorded simultaneously using a Hilbert transform in Matlab . The first data set consisted of the first 1-s recording from one receptor and the fifth 1-s recording from the other receptor . The second data set consisted of the fifth 1-s recording from one receptor and the first 1-s recording from the other receptor . We measured frequency tuning in spiking receptors following previously described methods  . We determined a receptor's threshold by finding the lowest intensity at which the receptor responded to a given frequency . The frequency with the lowest threshold was defined as the receptor's best frequency . For oscillating receptors , we generated tuning curves by plotting vector strength vs stimulus frequency . In three of eight oscillating receptors , the best frequencies in response to positive- and negative-polarity stimuli differed slightly . In these cases , we determined the receptor's best frequency by averaging the best frequencies to each stimulus polarity . To study how spiking receptors encode electric pulse waveform , we averaged the time of the first spike that occurred after stimulus onset  or stimulus offset  . For shorter stimulus durations  , we measured the difference in the times of the first oscillatory peaks that occurred after stimulus offset for each stimulus polarity . This procedure is equivalent to measuring the difference in oscillatory peak times between receptors on opposite sides of the body evoked by the same stimulus . To quantify the degree of oscillation amplitude enhancement , we first measured all prestimulus oscillation amplitudes on each recording trace , and then averaged across all repetitions of the same stimulus . Next , we measured the poststimulus oscillation amplitude on each recording trace and averaged across all repetitions of the same stimulus . Lastly , we divided the mean poststimulus oscillation amplitude by the mean prestimulus oscillation amplitude for each pulse duration . We measured the difference in the phases of oscillatory resets evoked by opposite-polarity stimuli by first averaging the recorded potential across stimulus repetitions , and then measuring the first poststimulus period and the latency of the first poststimulus peak . To measure spiking responses to paired pulses , we measured the interspike intervals between the spikes elicited by the onset  or offset  of each pulse . If no spikes occurred in response to the second pulse , no interspike intervals were recorded . In oscillating receptors , the stimulus artfact at the shortest IPIs tested obscured responses to the first pulse in the pair . To circumvent this issue , we first averaged oscillatory responses across stimulus presentations . We normalized mean poststimulus oscillation amplitudes by dividing by the mean poststimulus oscillation amplitude following a single pulse of 0 . To measure the IPIs generated by single fish and groups of fish , we recorded 20 min of electrical activity from a species with spiking receptors  and a congeneric species with oscillating receptors  . To test whether species with different receptor physiologies exhibited different behavioral responses to IPIs , we recorded fish's EOD output in response to a train of 10 conspecific EODs at a constant IPI  using previously described methods  . For each fish , we randomly selected a conspecific EOD waveform stimulus from a library . If the duration of the EOD was longer than the IPI , we truncated the EOD at the IPI . We presented only normal-polarity  stimuli . We collected a fish's responses to 20 repetitions of each IPI train and to a single EOD stimulus , with 1 min between trials to reduce habituation . We randomized stimulus order . We then averaged the SDF across stimulus repetitions . 2 s before stimulus onset . 2 s before stimulus onset and 1 . 2 s following stimulus offset . To compare responses across individuals , we subtracted the single-pulse response from the response to the IPI stimulus , and then we divided by the sum of the single-pulse and IPI response . of phase modulations of oscillatory receptor responses  . 1 to compare spontaneous oscillation amplitudes and frequencies , as well as spontaneous and stimulus-evoked oscillation amplitudes in response to square pulses in oscillatory receptors . 
Bacteriophage BPP-1 infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough . Here , we report a cryo electron microscopy structure of the BPP-1 head at 3 . Our atomic model shows two of the three protein folds representing major viral lineages: jellyroll for its cement protein  and HK97-like  for its major capsid protein  . Strikingly , the fold topology of MCP is permuted non-circularly from the Johnson fold topology previously seen in viral and cellular proteins . We illustrate that the new topology is likely the only feasible alternative of the old topology . β-sheet augmentation and electrostatic interactions contribute to the formation of non-covalent chainmail in BPP-1 , unlike covalent inter-protein linkages of the HK97 chainmail . Despite these complex interactions , the termini of both CP and MCP are ideally positioned for DGR-based phage-display engineering . Capsid proteins of non-enveloped viruses fall , so far , into three major structural classes: the β-jellyroll , the HK97 fold , and the fold of dsRNA-virus shell proteins  . The HK97 fold is present not only in a large number of dsDNA bacteriophage capsids , including the T-phages , lambdoid phages , etc , but also in the major capsid protein of eukaryotic herpesviruses  . In HK97 itself , the intersubunit contacts are reinforced by a post-assembly covalent linkage—an isopeptide bond between adjacent gp5 subunits , so positioned that the entire capsid is topologically interlinked in a ‘chainmail’ arrangement  . In other cases , such as bacteriophage λ , the non-covalent interactions between the subunits are reinforced by an additional ‘cement’ protein , which binds on the outer surface of the capsid at positions close to those of the isopeptide bonds in HK97  . Bacteriophage BPP-1 is a short-tailed , dsDNA virus and a member of the Podoviridae family . It has a T = 7l icosahedral capsid , ∼670 Å in diameter . A 7 Å resolution cryoEM structure of BPP-1 showed that its capsid protein has an HK97-like fold , but the shell has an additional protein component  . From a biotechnology standpoint , BPP-1 has emerged as an attractive phage-display system thanks to its unique and well characterized diversity-generating retro-element  . As such , BPP-1 is a naturally occurring diversity-generating system and can be engineered to display foreign proteins with adaptive heterologous sequences . An atomic description of the BPP-1 head will enhance bioengineering efforts , reveal non-covalent molecular interactions conducive of stable bacteriophage capsid formation , and clarify evolutionary relationships of BPP-1 MCP and CP with proteins in other viruses . In this study , we report the three-dimensional  structure of the BPP-1 head at ∼3 . 5 Å resolution determined by single-particle cryoEM and derived an atomic model . Both our structural and structure-based mutagenesis studies reveal major novelties in the BPP-1 MCP and CP structures and their interactions . We also show that the C-termini of both MCP and CP are ideally positioned to display DGR-diversified peptide libraries for protein engineering applications . 5 kb BPP-1 genome encodes up to 50 viral proteins  . To identify the genes coding for MCP and CP , we first carried out SDS-PAGE analysis and showed that the two most abundant protein bands have molecular masses of 36 . Mass spectrometry analysis confirmed that the bands correspond to Bbp17 and Bbp16 , respectively  . The theoretical molecular masses of Bbp17 and Bbp16  match their apparent molecular masses by SDS-PAGE , suggesting that the two capsid proteins in the mature bacteriophage particles are not cleaved  . Finally , to verify that genes bbp16 and bbp17 encode components essential for forming infectious phage particles , we constructed in-frame deletions of the bbp16 and bbp17 genes . As expected , no infectious phage particles were produced from BPP-1Δbrt lysogens carrying deletions in bbp16 or bbp17 , confirming that both MCP  and CP  are required for phage production . For the sake of clarity and ease of comparison with structural homologs of other viruses , we will continue to use CP and MCP to refer to Bbp16 and Bbp17 of BPP-1 , respectively . Identification of BPP-1 capsid proteins . SDS-PAGE of BPP-1 virion proteins stained with Coomassie blue; lane 1: molecular mass standards; lane 2: BPP-1 virion proteins . The two most abundant proteins of the BPP-1 virion are identified by mass spectrometry  to be Bbp17  and Bbp16   . Mass spectrometry result of Bbp16  . CryoEM reconstruction of the BPP-1 head at 3 . Representative cryoEM image  of the BPP-1 . CryoEM density of the BPP-1 head shown as radially-colored surface representation . Close-up view of a local region of MCP , with densities of many amino acid side chains clearly resolved in both the helix and the loop . The atomic model is shown as ribbons and sticks with amino acid residues labeled . 004 We reconstructed the 3D structure of the BPP-1 icosahedral head by single-particle cryoEM  . The quality of MCP and CP densities was further improved by additional averaging of seven CP or six hexameric MCP subunits  in the asymmetric unit  . Based on the reference-based Fourier shell correlation criterion  , the resolution of the capsid is 3 . Therefore , the resolution of the capsid and averaged densities were estimated to be ∼3 . Shaded surface view of the cryoEM density of the BPP-1 capsid at 3 . Statistics of atomic model refinement with PhenixDOI: http://dx . 006CP  MCP  Asymmetric unit  Residues resolved1–1407–3311–140  ; 5–331  Resolution  3 . 7*R-factors of the interchanged model by forcing the BPP-1 MCP to trace the HK97 topology . Shaded surface view of the cryoEM density of the averaged CP at 3 . 4 Å resolution  superimposed with the atomic model CP  . Shaded surface view of the cryoEM density of the averaged MCP at 3 . The three structural elements are color coded  according to the structural elements of the Johnson fold as illustrated in Figure 4 . CryoEM density of MCP around the positions of permutation . The three structural elements are color coded  according to the structural elements of the Johnson fold as illustrated in Figure 4 . 009 Arranged on a T = 7 icosahedral shell , MCP and CP each have seven copies or conformers in each asymmetric unit . MCP alone forms a complete icosahedral shell without any noticeable gaps . CP forms dimers bound to the underlying MCP shell at local and icosahedral twofold axes , making the maximum diameter of the BPP-1  bigger than that of the HK97 capsid  . When CP dimers are computationally removed , the overall size and architecture of the BPP-1 capsid is almost identical to that of the HK97 capsid , and the backbone model of the HK97 capsid is nearly super-imposable with the BPP-1 density map with minor mismatches . Based on the averaged density maps of CP and MCP , we built initial atomic models of CP and MCP with Coot  , and refined them with Phenix  . Models of the seven MCP and CP monomers within the asymmetric unit were subsequently obtained by adjusting the initial MCP and CP models with Coot and refined with Phenix , with overall R/R-free factors of 0 . We traced 139  of the 140 amino acid residues of the cement protein Bbp16 in the cryoEM density map . The backbones of the seven CP subunits in the asymmetric unit , including their C-terminal extensions , are nearly identical , with an RMSD of 0 . Structure of CP . CryoEM density map of CP  . Ribbon model of CP , showing its jellyroll fold . Eight β-strands  fold into the two characteristic β-sheets  , forming a ‘jellyroll’  . The two F strands  of two neighboring CP monomers form hydrogen bonds in an antiparallel fashion , creating an augmented , 8-stranded β-sheet and a CP dimer . Ribbon diagrams of the atomic models of the seven CP conformers of BPP-1 . 010 The topological organization of strands in the two β sheets  of CP is identical to that of the jellyroll motif . Unlike its role as the major capsid protein in the above-mentioned viruses , the jellyroll motif in BPP-1 forms an auxiliary protein to stabilize the viral capsid made by proteins of another fold . In BPP-1 , CP subunits form a dimer through β-sheet augmentation between the F-strands of two CHEF sheets , forming an 8 stranded β-sheet visible on the external surface  . Although the BIDG sheet of the jellyroll motif faces but do not interact with the underneath MCP shell , instead , as described in detail below , CP interacts with the MCP shell mainly through its N- and C-termini as well as a linking loop between its β-strands B and C . We traced 327 amino acid residues  of the total 331 residues of the major capsid protein Bbp17 in the cryoEM density map  . Although little sequence identity  was detected between BPP-1 MCP and HK97 gp5 proteins with ClustalW  , the overall architecture of the MCP resembles that of HK97 gp5   , with an axial  domain , a peripheral  domain and an extended loop   . Both the subunit organization and domain orientations of the seven MCPs in the BPP-1 capsid are also identical to those of the corresponding gp5 subunits in the HK97 capsid . The A-domain contains a 5-stranded β sheet flanked by two helices on one side and a C-terminal loop on the other . Notably , both N- and C-termini of MCP are exposed on the external surface of the capsid , thus are accessible for tethering peptides in phage-display applications . Structure of MCP . Sequence and secondary structure assignment of MCP . The three structural elements of the Johnson fold , including N- , β- and α-elements , are shown in cyan , purple and green , respectively . CryoEM density map of MCP  shown as shaded surface using the same color coding of  . Ribbon diagram of the MCP atomic model with the three structural elements of the Johnson fold colored as in  . BPP-1 MCP density within the dash-box drawn in  , showing the positions of the permutation  through which the N-element  is connected to the β-element  , instead of to helix α5  , as in HK97 gp5 . CryoEM density  of the βG strand in  superimposed with its atomic model  . CryoEM density  of the α5 helix in  superimposed with its atomic model  . Structural comparisons between one hexameric MCP of BPP-1 and gp5 of HK97 . Superposition of the structure of HK97 gp5  with that of BPP-1 MCP  . Ribbon diagrams of the atomic models of the seven MCP conformers in each asymmetric unit of BPP-1 . Differences between BPP-1 pentameric MCP and HK97 gp5 . The central pore in a MCP pentamer of BPP-1 . The loop A295-V309 in BPP-1 MCP is disordered while the counterpart in HK97 gp5  is ordered . The same as  with the addition of a pentameric gp5 of HK97  and a hexameric MCP of BPP-1  superimposed on one of the green pentameric MCP , showing the ordered loops of the pentameric gp5 and the hexameric BPP-1 MCP . Superposition of the pentameric MCP of BPP-1  and the pentameric gp5 of HK97  . Incorrect MCP model obtained by enforcing the HK97 topology into the BPP-1 MCP cryoEM density , followed by five cycles of model refinement  . Superposition of the cryoEM density and the interchanged model for the region shown in Figure 4D . The two linking loops  do not have matching cryoEM density . Superposition of the cryoEM density  and the interchanged model  for two regions indicated in  : the βG strand  and α5 helix  . 014 The structures of the seven MCP conformers in the asymmetric unit are nearly identical with some minor differences  , and RMSDs of their backbones  are 0 . 98 Å among six hexameric MCPs and 1 . 8 Å between the pentameric and the hexameric MCPs . The minor differences among the different MCP conformers include:  Each N-terminal portion  of the seven MCPs adopts a slightly different conformation , and backbone RMSDs of this segment are 1 . 0 Å among seven MCP copies;  The E-loops of the seven MCPs have backbone RMSDs of 0 . 3 Å , larger than other portions of MCPs , possibly resulting from different local shell curvatures at the regions of the E-loops  ;  Although the C-terminal proximal loop  of every hexameric MCP is well resolved , the corresponding segment in the pentameric MCP is not resolved , suggesting disordered conformation of this segment in pentons possibly due to steric hindrance at the central channel of the MCP pentamer  . Despite the similarities in the architectural appearances of BPP-1 MCP and HK97 gp5 , their atomic structures differ in four significant ways . Firstly , the conformations of the N-terminal loops are different  . In BPP-1 MCP , the N-terminal peptide extends radially to interact with a CP by augmenting its CHEF β-sheet . In HK97 gp5 , the N-terminus extends circumferentially and interacts with three adjacent gp5 subunits , augmenting a β-sheet in one of them . Secondly , a C-terminal loop  of the pentameric MCP in BPP-1 is disordered while the corresponding loop  in the HK97 pentameric gp5 is ordered   . Finally , and perhaps most interestingly , the folding topologies of BPP-1 MCP and HK97 gp5 are different , which , as described below , provides the first opportunity to explore possible alternative ways to build the highly conserved HK97-like folds  . Two different topologies of the Johnson fold and structure-based mutagenesis of MCP . Diagram of the BPP topology of the Johnson fold: N- , β- , α-elements . Diagram of the HK97 topology of the Johnson fold: N- , α- , β-elements . Diagram of the three structural elements of the Johnson fold with free N- and C-ends . Expression of BPP-1 MCP mutants with the β- and α-elements swapped , thus adopting the HK97 topology . Wild type  and mutant  BPP-1 MCPs with a 6xhistidine tag at the C-terminus were induced for expression from an fhaB promoter in RB50 cells for 3  and 6  hr , respectively . Diagram of non-circular permutation of the three structural elements of the Johnson fold in BPP-1 MCP and HK97 gp5 . Folding topology of the three elements in the BPP-1 MCP . Fold topology of the three corresponding elements in the HK97 gp5 . Illustration of the two BPP-1 MCP non-circular permutation mutations , PM1 and PM2 , obtained by swapping the order of the β-element and the α-element to that of HK97 gp5 . Johnson fold in HK97-like proteins . BPP-1 MCP . HK97 gp55 . gp24 of T4 phage35 . Spatial organization of the three structural elements of the Johnson fold . Topologies of HK97 gp5  , BPP-1 MCP  and the mis-interpreted Epsilon15 gp7   , showing the conservation of the structural elements and the topology difference among the known HK97-like proteins . The three structural elements are marked with cyan , purple and green as in the Figure 4A–D . 017 As remarked above , despite of the similar architectural appearance  of BPP-1 Bbp17 and HK97 gp5 , the peptide traces of these two proteins follow different folding topologies  . A careful comparison of the two structures has led us to identify three structural elements of the canonical HK97-like , or ‘Johnson’ fold: N- , β- and α-elements  . The β-element  consists of two anti-parallel  β-strands forming a hairpin located at the middle of the Johnson fold . The α-element  contains two parallel  β-strands and the two short helices . The N-element  contributes the last  β-strand to the Johnson fold and also contains the two other characteristic secondary structures of the Johnson fold: a long , kinked ‘spine’ α-helix and the extended loop  . In BPP-1 MCP , the N- , β- , and α-elements consist of residues 1–168 , 169–241 , and 242–331 , respectively  . The orders of these three structural elements in BPP-1 and HK97 are N-β-α  , N-α-β  , respectively . To verify this , we swapped the α and β structural elements in our de novo BPP-1 MCP model to create an ‘interchanged model’ that matches the HK97 topology . Despite this refinement effort , the final ‘interchanged model’ does not agree with our experimental cryoEM density  . In particular , many side chains in the ‘interchanged model’ do not match those resolved in the cryoEM density map  . This verification provides additional support to the BPP topology established by our de novo modeling approach . Interchange of two of the structural elements can lead to proteins with different topologies of the Johnson fold  . Remarkably , the newly discovered BPP topology presented here is therefore the second topology predicted from the above rule  , the first being the topology discovered in HK97 gp5   and subsequently seen in many other viruses , as well as in bacteria and archaea cells  . Insertions into any of the three structural elements can give rise to more complex architectures without increasing the number of folding topologies of the Johnson fold , as would be expected for larger viral particles such as the herpesvirus capsid . To test whether a functional protein can be produced from BPP-1 MCP by permuting it to the HK97 topology without introducing other changes , we genetically interchanged the primary order of the β- and α-elements in the BPP-1 MCP gene bbp17  , and made two slightly different constructs   . However , no plaque formation was detected for the PM1 and PM2 lysates on RB50 cells transformed with either the wt bbp17 , the PM1 or the PM2 construct  , suggesting that the PM1 and PM2 gene products are not functional . The BPP-1 capsid has a chainmail structure similar to that of HK97 capsid  . Instead of covalent bonding as in HK97 , the BPP-1 chainmail is stabilized by non-covalent interactions , such as:  strong electrostatic interactions between adjacent MCPs  , and  additional CP-MCP interactions contributed by CPs  . Non-covalent chainmail of the BPP-1 head . Chainmail network formed by BPP-1 MCPs . The P-domain and E-loop of MCP in neighboring capsomers join head to tail to form rings  , which concatenate to form non-covalent chainmail . Other domains of MCP are dimmed . Same view as in  but with CP dimers  also shown . Inter-capsomeric MCP-MCP interactions . The close-up view of all MCPs within the region within the cyan box in  illustrates the interaction interfaces  between the overlying E-loops of three MCP monomers and the underlying domains of other MCPs . These MCP monomers are shown as ribbons in different colors and belong to different hexon  capsomers . Complementary electrostatic potentials are evident at the interaction interfaces , shown separately to reveal the surfaces of the underlying MCPs  and the 180°-rotated overlying E-loops  , respectively . Intra-capsomeric MCP–MCP interactions . The region within the blue box of  contains a hexon with its six MCP monomers shown either as ribbons in different colors  or as electrostatic potential surfaces  . Adjacent MCP subunits within the hexon share one interaction interface  and their complementary electrostatic potential surfaces are evident in their rotated views  . Inter-capsomer interactions in HK97 capsid . Electrostatic potential surface of the underlying HK97 gp5 . Overlying molecules , including the E-loops of three gp5  . The surface of MCP at this region has mainly positive charge  . The C-terminal loop  of gp5 occupied a different region of the MCP shell and interacts with CP in BPP-1 . Electrostatic potential surface of the E-loops of the three overlying gp5 monomers , exhibiting mostly negative charge  . The interacting surface of the three gp5 molecules has more positive charge , in contrast to the mostly negative charge as in BPP-1 MCP . The interacting surface of the gp5 E-loops has mostly negative charge , in contrast to the mostly positive charge as in BPP-1 . Interactions within a gp5 hexon of HK97 . A region of HK97 capsid containing a single hexon with six gp5 monomers was displayed as electrostatic potential surfaces  . Adjacent gp5 subunits within the hexon share one interaction interface  and their complementary electrostatic potential surfaces are evident in their rotated views  . The interacting interfaces are slightly different from those in BPP-1 , but nonetheless , are also complementary to other another . Non-covalent chainmail formed by MCPs on the BPP-1 capsid . For clarity , only the P domain and the E-loop of MCP subunit are shown . Ball-and-stick models are produced from our atomic model of BPP-1 and those in the same ring are rendered in the same color . Interactions between CP and MCP . The same views as Figure 6C , D are shown in  and  , respectively , except for the addition of a green outline depicting the interaction interface between a CP dimer and its underlying MCPs . At the interaction interface with MCPs , the electrostatic potential surface of the CP dimer  is complementary to that of its underlying MCPs  . Details of the interactions  between CP and MCP . The two monomers in the CP dimer are shown as pink and grey ribbons and the five underlying MCPs as yellow , orange , cyan , blue , and green ribbons . Side chains involved in interactions with the pink CP are shown displayed as sticks . Note the extensive interactions between the CP C-terminal extension and three different MCP monomers . The same as  but without the overlying CP dimer and sticks of interacting side chains to better reveal MCP segments involved in the interactions  . The bottom view of the pink CP monomer to better reveal its segments  involved in CP–MCP interactions , which include its N-terminal loop , C-terminal loop , and the loop connecting strands C and D in the jellyroll . 021 Electrostatic interactions between MCPs of BPP-1 are stronger than those between gp5 subunits in the HK97 capsid  for two reasons . Firstly , in the MCP hexamer , the electrostatic interactions between adjacent MCPs that appears to be stronger than those between HK97 hexameric gp5 proteins  . Secondly , the interface between the MCP E-loop and an adjacent MCP protein at each local threefold region contains complementary electrostatic interactions  . Specifically , the E-loop is mainly positive charged and its MCP interface is mainly negative charged , and the interaction at this interface appears to be stronger than that of HK97 gp5 in the same interface . Interestingly , the electrostatic properties of BPP-1 MCP and Hk97 gp5 are opposite in this interface  . The stronger electrostatic interaction between the E-loops and the local threefold region of the BPP-1 MCP may be the reason for the absence  of the salt bridge found between HK97 gp5 proteins at the local threefold interface that is critical for the assembly , stability and maturation of the HK97 capsid  . Salt bridges between adjacent HK97 gp5 molecules and lack of them in the corresponding positions in BPP-1 MCP molecules . Close-up view of two adjacent HK97 gp5 subunits , showing salt bridges between Arg194 , Arg347 and Glu363 and Glu344 . There are no such salt bridges in the corresponding regions in the BPP-1 MCP molecules . 022 In addition , the BPP-1 head is further stabilized by interactions between CP and MCP . Complementary electrostatic potential surfaces were also identified at the interface between CP and MCP  . Each CP interacts extensively with five MCP subunits underneath , mainly involving three loops:  N-terminal loop ,  C-terminal loop , and  the linking loop between strands C and D of the jellyroll motif  . Firstly , the N-terminal loop of CP interacts with two MCPs: the N-terminal loop of first MCP  and the E-loop of the second MCP   , Secondly , the C-terminal loop of CP interacts with two MCPs: a β-strand of the β-element of the first MCP  and both N- and C-terminal loops of a second MCP   . Thirdly , the linking loop of CP interacts with three MCPs: two β-strands of the β-element of the first MCP  , the N-terminal loop of a second MCP  and a short loop  of the third MCP   . Fourthly , β-strand C of CP jellyroll interacts with the N-terminal loop of an MCP , augmenting the CHEF β-sheet of CP  . Finally , two CP monomers form a dimer through anti-parallel interaction between their F-strands of jellyrolls , forming an augmented , 10-stranded β sheet and further stabilizing the capsid  . Interactions between CP and MCPs . Ribbon models of two adjacent HK97 gp5 subunits , showing the interaction of the N-terminal loop  with an adjacent gp5  . BPP-1 regions corresponding to that in  showing the lack of the HK97 type of interactions between the MCP N-terminal loop  and adjacent MCP molecules  . The same region in  but with the CP dimer  , showing that the N-terminal loop of MCP hydrogen-bonds to β-strand C of CP  to form an augmented 10-stranded β sheet , and that the C-terminal loop  of each CP has extensive interactions with nearby MCP molecules . 023 We found that BPP-1 CP and MCP adopt two of the three characteristic folds of major virus lineages , jellyroll , and HK-97/Johnson . Moreover , the topology of the Johnson fold in BPP-1 MCP is non-circularly permuted as compared to the previously known topology of the Johnson fold . Until now , the Johnson fold has been observed at atomic detail in the Siphoviridae and Myoviridae families of the three tailed-bacteriophage families , exemplified by gp5 of HK97   and gp24 of T4   . Our atomic model derived from the 3 . 5 Å cryoEM map of BPP-1 represents the first atomic model for a virus in the third tailed-bacteriophage family , the Podoviridae . Indeed , BPP-1 represents the first among all viruses shown to contain both the jellyroll and HK97-like folds . Three major lineages have been proposed based on three highly distinctive structures: jellyroll-like  , HK97-like  and BTV-like  , and members of each lineage contain MCPs with conserved folds originating from a common ancestor  . Our result suggests that BPP-1 is likely a hybrid virus that has adopted the characteristic structures from both the jellyroll and HK97 lineages . The head of bacteriophage Epsilon15 also contains two capsid proteins  located at similar positions as CP  and MCP  in BPP-1 . In particular , BPP-1 Bbp17  shares ∼46% sequence identity with gp7 of Epsilon15 phage , indicating that the two proteins are likely to have nearly identical structures at least at the level of protein backbones . 5 Å resolution map  to bear the same BPP topology as we initially reported  and detailed further in this study . As described in the results above , the BPP topology and HK97 topology represent the only two feasible topologies of the Johnson fold  . To date , all other known atomic structures of proteins with the Johnson fold adopt the HK97 topology , including gp5 of HK97 in Siphoviridae  , gp24 of T4 in Myoviridae  , a 39kD spherical particle-forming protein in archaea  and an encapsulin protein in bacteria   . This , combined with the fact that no recognizable sequence similarity can be identified between the BPP-1 MCP and other HK97-like MCPs  , obscures the origin of the BPP topology . From an engineering stand point , it is fortunate that both termini of MCP and the C-terminus of CP are exposed on the external surface of the capsid , ideally positioned for peptide display . Indeed , we observed infectious phage particle formation when either CP or MCP was fused to a peptide of 22 amino acids at their C-terminus  . As BPP-1 DGRs diversify DNA sequences in vivo , this suggests they may be engineered to display heterologous sequences on the phage capsid by fusion to the termini of CP or MCP . The atomic model of the BPP-1 head presented in this study provides a road map forward to harness the great potentials afforded by the unique properties of BPP-1 for phage-display engineering . 500 ml of LB medium was inoculated with a single colony of BPP-1 lysogen . The final concentration of BPP-1 was ∼1014 pfu/ml . To identify capsid proteins using SDS−PAGE and mass spectrometry , purified BPP-1 particles were incubated in 1× SDS sample buffer  at 95°C for 5 min before loading onto the gel . To further improve signal/noise ratio , local averaging of seven CP or six hexameric MCP subunits  in the asymmetric unit was performed as previously described  . 143  and the final atomic model calculated by Phenix  . 4 Å for the capsid density and the averaged CP and MCP densities , respectively  . Based on the averaged density maps of CP and MCP , we first built initial Cα and full atom models for CP and MCP with Coot  without referring to any existing models of other proteins . For MCP , the N- and C-termini were distinguished based on the ‘Christmas tree’ polarity of α helices and confirmed by landmark , bulky side chain densities . Atomic model of an asymmetric unit including seven MCPs and seven CPs was subsequently obtained by adjusting the refined MCP and CP models according to the density maps of different conformers . The final atomic model of the full capsid was obtained after 14 cycles of refinement . Because our BPP-1 MCP chain trace differs from that of the HK97 gp5 in the order of the α and β structural elements  , we made an extra cautious effort to verify our trace by swapping the α and β structural elements in our model to create an interchanged model that matches the HK97 topology . Most of the side chains of the refined interchanged model do not match those in the cryoEM density , further confirming our de novo model  . To engineer BPP-1 MCP to match the topology of HK97 gp5 , we swapped the order of the β- and α-elements in BPP-1 MCP  . In construct PM1 , the β-element  was cut from wt bbp17 gene and then pasted to the C-terminal end of α-element . Plasmids expressing either wt bbp17 , PM1 or PM2 genes B . The protein expressing levels of the wt bbp17 , PM1 and PM2 genes  in these RB50 cells were determined by Western blot . To obtain phage lysates for plaque assays , we generated a lysogen  that has the bbp17 gene deleted . Then , we transformed plasmids expressing either the wt bbp17 gene , the PM1 or PM2 genes into the BPP-1ΔbrtΔbbp17 lysogens . bronchiseptica RB50 cells transformed with plasmids expressing either wt bbp17 , PM1 or PM2 gene . CryoEM density maps , atomic models and surface charge properties were visualized with Chimera  . The cryoEM density map and the atomic model of BPP-1 have been deposited to databanks with accession numbers EMD  and PDB  , respectively . 
Dengue virus  cycles between mosquito and mammalian hosts . To examine how DENV populations adapt to these different host environments , we used serial passage in human and mosquito cell lines and estimated fitness effects for all single-nucleotide variants in these populations using ultra-deep sequencing . This allowed us to determine the contributions of beneficial and deleterious mutations to the collective fitness of the population . Our analysis revealed that the continuous influx of a large burden of deleterious mutations counterbalances the effect of rare , host-specific beneficial mutations to shape the path of adaptation . Beneficial mutations preferentially map to intrinsically disordered domains in the viral proteome and cluster to defined regions in the genome . These phenotypically redundant adaptive alleles may facilitate host-specific DENV adaptation . Quantifying the evolutionary dynamics of virus populations in controlled experimental systems can reveal biological constraints on the viral genome , molecular mechanisms of viral adaptation , and fundamental biophysical and population genetic principles governing molecular evolution in general . Several studies have addressed these alternative landscapes experimentally in vitro and in vivo , identifying mutations that confer increased fitness in each host  . Comparing the evolutionary dynamics of viral populations across different host environments could highlight key points of host-specific selection and define the patterns of evolutionary constraint that define the landscape in each host . It is becoming increasingly clear that the distribution and dynamics of minor alleles play important roles in population fitness , adaptation , and disease  ; furthermore , the neighborhood of connected genotypes is thought to be important to population fitness  . The genomes of viruses that alternate between hosts , such as arboviruses , are subject to selection in distinct environments , raising the question of how these viruses maintain fitness over alternating hosts . DMS can quantify the fitness effects of individual mutations in viral genomes through intentional diversification of protein sequences  . Thus , the ability to globally trace the evolutionary dynamics of individual alleles in viral populations from their genesis at the mutation rate to their eventual fate in a given experiment allows us to describe the viral fitness landscapes that shape adapting populations in unprecedented detail . This permits quantification of the contribution of genetic constraint on the viral adaptation process . We here use CirSeq to characterize the fitness landscapes of DENV populations adapting to the distinct environments and cellular machineries of human and mosquito cells by tracing individual allele trajectories for almost all possible single nucleotide variants across the DENV genome . Analysis of the allele repertoire reveals how fitness of the viral population represents a balance between the dynamics of rare beneficial mutations and the significant and constantly replenished load of deleterious alleles during adaptation . We find that adaptation relies on host-specific beneficial mutations that are clustered in specific regions of the DENV genome and enriched in regions of the proteome that exhibit structural flexibility . First , the viral genome could have overlapping host-specific fitness landscapes; in this case , transmission would not involve significant trade-offs . Alternatively , the virus may have distinct host-specific landscapes with offset fitness maxima . To characterize the relative topography of the adaptive landscapes of DENV in vertebrate and invertebrate hosts  , we experimentally evolved DENV in human and mosquito cell lines  . aegypti is the primary mosquito vector of DENV , Ae . 1 , using a viral inoculum of 5 × 105 focus forming units  from the previous passage . We estimate the virus undergoes 1–3 rounds of replication in each passage . The fitness gains associated with adaptation were assessed phenotypically by measurements of virus titer  , intracellular vRNA content  , and focus size and morphology  for each viral population in the passaged host cell . All of these fitness measures increased over time for the passaged host , indicating significant adaptive evolution throughout the experiment . We quantified fitness trade-offs in parallel by carrying out the same measurements in the alternative  host cell . In agreement with previous studies  , passaging on one host cell line was accompanied by a concurrent loss of fitness in the alternative host cell line  . In contrast , mosquito-adapted populations formed fewer foci in human cells  . We further assessed the evolutionary trade-offs during host adaptation by comparing the relative titers of all the passaged populations in both the original and the alternative host cells , Huh7 and C6/36 . To examine if the fitness effects were specific to the Huh7 cell line used or reflected a broader  adaptation to the mammalian cell environment , we also measure fitness in two additional human cell lines , Huh7 . For each passage , viral titers were normalized to that obtained in the adapted  host cell line , to yield the efficiency of plating   . Huh7 . Intriguingly , viral populations exhibit an intermediate phenotype in Huh7 . In the future , it will be interesting to extend these analyses to intact infected hosts to clarify how innate and organismal immunity contribute to host-specific adaptation and host tropism . To determine the genotypic changes associated with host cell adaptation , we subjected all viral populations to CirSeq RNA sequencing  . We next examined the allele frequencies in each passage for each position of the DENV genome  . Most alleles are present at low frequencies , between 1 in 1000 and 1 in 100 , 000 . Comparing the allele frequencies in the two independent passage series A and B revealed that , as passage number increased , the replicate populations  shared numerous high-frequency mutations  while populations passaged in different hosts shared no high frequency mutations  . As evident in Video 1 , cell-adaptation increased the frequency of alleles in specific regions of the DENV genome , such as NS2A and NS4B in human-adapted lineages and in E , NS3 , and the 3′ UTR in mosquito-adapted replicates  . These analyses revealed the contribution of host-specific and replicate-specific changes in the viral population . MDS also revealed the orthogonal , host-specific evolutionary paths of the populations  . The finding that reproducible population structures emerge during DENV adaptation to each host resonates with theoretical predictions that large viral populations will develop genetic structures , often called quasispecies , deterministically based on the selective environment  . The concept of fitness links the frequency dynamics of individual alleles in a population with their phenotypic outcome , that is , beneficial , deleterious , lethal , or neutral . Lethal and deleterious alleles are held to low frequencies by negative selection , while beneficial mutations increase in frequency due to positive selection  . Observing the frequency trajectory of a given allele over time relative to its mutation rate enables the estimation of its fitness effect . The genomic mutation rate , substitutions per genome per replication   , was calculated by taking the sum of the ML mutation rate estimates of all single-nucleotide mutations across the genome , yielding ⎧g estimates of 0 . 73 s/g/r for mosquito populations and 0 . Using a model derived from classical population genetics  , we next generated point estimates and 95% confidence intervals of relative fitness  for each possible allele in the DENV genome  . The distribution of mutational fitness effects , or DMFE , is commonly used to describe the mutational robustness of a given genome  . Importantly , describing the full DMFE requires resolving the fitness effects of the large fraction of alleles with deleterious fitness effects . Due to its low error rate , CirSeq enables the analysis of low-frequency alleles illuminating the contribution of deleterious and neutral mutations to the topography of the fitness landscape  . The DMFEs of DENV exhibited bimodal distributions with peaks at lethality  and neutrality  , and a long tail of rare beneficial mutations  , similar to what is observed for other RNA viruses  . The 95% CIs of these w^ fitness estimates were used to classify individual alleles as beneficial  , deleterious  , lethal  , or neutral   . Alleles with fitness 95% CI maxima equal to 0 were classified as lethal alleles; these never accumulate above their mutation rate due to rapid removal by negative selection  . 0 were considered deleterious  . 0 were classified as beneficial; these accumulate at a rate greater than their mutation rate due to positive selection  . 5% significantly beneficial  . The genomic mutation rate represents the rate at which novel mutations enter the population  . To understand the expected fitness of new mutations , we used fitness classifications for all 32 , 166 possible single-nucleotide variant alleles  to estimate the genomic beneficial , deleterious , and lethal mutation rates  . These estimates indicate that the virus maintains a substantial deleterious genetic load due to the high rate at which deleterious and lethal mutations flow into the population . We estimate DENV genomes have a 40–50% probability to acquire a deleterious mutation but only a 0 . 3% probability to acquire a beneficial mutation per replication cycle  . We next determined the proportion of mutations in each fitness class mapping to structural and non-structural regions of the viral polyprotein . A high confidence set of 13–14 , 000 alleles in each population was chosen based on sequencing depth and quality of the fit in the w^ fitness estimates across passages . There were striking differences in the distribution of lethal and deleterious mutations in distinct regions of the genome  . Non-structural proteins were significantly enriched in deleterious and lethal mutations compared to structural proteins . We also find the viral UTRs exhibit host-specific patterns of constraint , consistent with their host-specific roles in the viral life cycle  . In human cells , the DENV UTRs were more brittle but also contained more beneficial alleles than in mosquito adapted populations , suggesting strong selection . In contrast to beneficial mutations , which were largely host and replicate specific , deleterious and lethal mutations exhibited significant overlap between the two hosts  . This indicates viral protein and RNA structures and functions share common constraints in the two host environments . These constraints were further examined by evaluating how specific mutation types contribute to the viral fitness landscape  . As expected , synonymous mutations tended to be more neutral than non-synonymous mutations , which exhibited a bimodal distribution of fitness effects  . As expected , lethal alleles were enriched in nonsense mutations  as well as nonsynonymous substitutions  . These findings reveal the structural biophysical constraints shaping the DENV adaptive landscape and constraining viral diversity . Examining allele frequency in the populations over passage revealed a shift in the distribution of allele fitness over the adaptation experiment , which reflects the rate at which new mutations flow into the population and the strength of selection acting on those mutations  . In early passages , the population is dominated by neutral and deleterious alleles that arise continuously in each replication cycle  . In later passages , when rare beneficial mutations begin to accumulate under positive selection , we observe a concurrent loss of deleterious and neutral mutations , likely driven out by negative selection in a soft selective sweep . However , because most mutations arising during replication are deleterious or neutral  , the deleterious genetic load is never fully purged from the viral populations . The Fundamental Theorem of Natural Selection dictates that the mean relative fitness of a population should increase during adaptation  . Given the low probability of acquiring multiple mutations per genome per replication cycle  , individual alleles were treated as independent of each other in our previous analysis of fitness . However , linking the fitness of individual alleles to the dynamics of genomes , and estimating the aggregate effect of individual mutations , requires the estimation of haplotypes . To this end , we used the estimates of mutational fitness effects and frequency trajectories of individual alleles to estimate the aggregate changes in fitness in the populations over the course of passage  . We then estimated the corresponding genomic fitness values , W , as the product of the fitness effects across all sites in the reconstructed genome  . Next , we compared the genotype-based median fitness of the population  with the experimental phenotype observed in the corresponding viral population  . We chose mean absolute viral titers  as a gross measure of population replicative fitness and adaptation to the host cell . We next estimated the contribution of beneficial , lethal , and deleterious mutations to mean population fitness . To this end , we calculated the genome fitness , W , for each experimental lineage as described above , but taking into account only those sites with beneficial , deleterious , or lethal alleles . We compared these class-specific trajectories to the overall mean population fitness  to understand how the aggregate fitness of the population reflects the balance of beneficial and deleterious mutations  . Beneficial mutations , although occurring relatively rarely , rapidly accumulate and drive the increase in the mean relative fitness  . The result is mean fitness of the population is less than 1 . 0  early in passage , when the deleterious load overwhelms rare beneficial mutations . Only after 4–5 passages do beneficial mutations drive the mean fitness above 1 . Although beneficial mutations sweep in , they do not completely drive out the deleterious load . Instead , deleterious alleles reduce the mean fitness by approximately 50% across all passages  . Together , these analyses reveal how the phenotypes of large viral populations , characterized by high mutation rates , reflect the balance of beneficial and deleterious mutations  . In the future , using population sequencing to characterize mutational burden in different viral species will allow us to better understand how mutational tolerance and constraint on viral genomes relates to viral emergence , transmission , and long- and short-term evolution of viral populations . Analysis of the regions of the viral genome under positive and negative selection in each host provided insights into the molecular determinants of DENV adaptation . We calculated the mean fitness effect of non-synonymous and noncoding mutations in 21 nucleotide windows and mapped them onto the genome  . Regions of evolutionary constraint , denoted by deleterious  and lethal  mean fitness effects , were found throughout the genome , distributed similarly between the two hosts . In contrast , the patterns of positive selection along the genome were different between the two hosts  . Notably , many beneficial mutations were clustered at a few specific locations in the genome  , suggesting adaptation relies on hotspots of host-specific selection . The clusters of adaptive mutations identified in mosquito cells were under negative selection in human-adapted populations  . Our analyses reveal point mutations disrupting the structure of these loops are also beneficial in mosquitoes , highlighting the diversity of stem-loop altering mutations available to increase fitness in specific environments . Recently , a study reporting passage of DENV1 in Ae . These examples illustrate our ability to recapitulate and identify subtle shifts in the DMFE to uncover molecular mechanisms of selection and adaptation operating on DENV populations in cells and in host populations . The clusters of adaptive mutations in specific regions of the dengue genome suggest discrete elements targeted by selection in each host . We next examined the structural and functional properties of these elements to better understand the biophysical properties that influence DENV host adaptation . We found that transmembrane domains were depleted of beneficial mutations and enriched in lethal mutations  . Thus , despite differences in lipid composition of human and insect membranes  , the transmembrane regions of DENV disfavor changes during host cell adaptation . Beneficial mutations were highly enriched in IDRs , but not in structured regions  . Strikingly , when compared to the fitness classes derived in our study , the occurrence of lethal , detrimental , and beneficial mutations mirrored the evolutionary conservation and variance across DENV serotypes  . For instance , beneficial mutations in our study were strongly enriched in the regions of highest variation across DENV serotypes , while lethal mutations were enriched in residues that are invariant during evolution . These conclusions were supported when extending this analysis to include conservation between DENV and Zika virus  . In contrast , regions of higher variation between viral species have fewer lethal mutations and a higher level of beneficial mutations . Together , these analyses begin to map the topography of DENV sequence space and suggest how the genomes of flaviviruses are positioned within this space to facilitate access to fitness peaks in its alternative host cell environments  . We find that a large fraction of the DENV genome sequence space does not respond to host-specific pressures . Transmembrane and structured domains are not subject to optimization through host-specific beneficial mutations , indicating these regions reside at a trade-off point for efficient replication in both hosts . Here , we used high-resolution sequencing to quantify the contribution of beneficial and deleterious mutation in shaping the evolutionary paths of DENV populations responding to host cell-specific selective pressures . Our analysis shows that DENV populations acquire host-specific population structures defined by distinct genotype-fitness landscapes  , which collectively shift the population in sequence space and result in a concurrent increase in phenotypic fitness , as assessed by focus morphology and absolute titers  . Strikingly , we find that simple models of mean population fitness derived from allele frequency measurements alone can predict phenotypic adaptation  . This suggests the phenotype and evolutionary dynamics of a virus can be described by the fitness contributions of all alleles in the population . An insight of these analyses is that viral populations carry a large burden of detrimental mutations that imposes a significant fitness cost on the population that persists across passage . Previous studies showed that the high mutation load of RNA viruses is a key determinant on viral evolution and emergence  . Our findings quantify the cost of deleterious mutation across the dengue genome , highlighting how negative selection shapes diversity in viral populations . It will be interesting to understand how specific functional and structural features shape these patterns and contribute to overall population fitness . We find that adaptive mutations , including changes in coding and noncoding regions , cluster in specific regions across the DENV genome . For instance , mutations that cluster in the 3′ UTR and disrupt the structure of stem-loop II , and mutations along loop 150–160 in DENV E protein that disrupt glycosylation in mosquito cells , both sites for gate-keeper mutations for mosquito transmission  . Our study highlights the crucial role of structural constraints in shaping DENV evolution . Adaptive mutations are largely excluded from transmembrane domains and structured regions in DENV proteins . Of note , our identification of highly constrained DENV regions , where most mutations are lethal , may uncover attractive targets for antivirals . Beneficial mutations are enriched in flexible loops and intrinsically disordered regions of the DENV polyprotein  . Such plasticity may allow viral IDRs to rewire viral protein interactions with host factors , thereby driving adaptation to changing environments  . Notably , the link between structural properties and fitness effects measured in our study mirrors sequence conservation and variation across natural isolates of DENV and ZIKV  . Huh7  , Huh7 . These two human and mosquito ‘passage 0’ populations were used to inoculate each replicate lineage on the same host cell . This model requires only two consecutive passages to estimate a relative fitness parameter . To estimate the effect of the observed evolutionary dynamics on the fitness of individual viral genomes in the population in the absence of haplotypic information , we generated a population of reconstructed viral genomes sampled from our empirical allele frequencies . For each reconstructed genome , we select a sequence identity , and corresponding fitness effect estimate , w^ , at each position with a probability equal to its empirical frequency from the corresponding sequenced population . Estimates of fitness effects , w^ , for the selected alleles along the genome are used to compute the fitness of the reconstructed genome , W , as the product of the fitness estimates across all positions:  W=∏i=1nw^i A total of 50 , 000 genomes were reconstructed for each sequenced population to estimate the distribution of expected genome fitness values in the population; similar results were obtained with independent samples . To estimate the contribution of the individual classes of mutation to the aggregate population fitness  , a similar collection of genomes was reconstructed as described above , however , the estimated genome fitness , W , is computed as the product of variants of a given fitness class  , treating others as neutral  to mask their effect . The resulting estimate of genome fitness reflects the isolated influence of these variants in the population . Fitness values for non-synonymous mutations were displayed on available dengue pdb structures using pyMol2  . For each of these regions  , we have computed the fraction of non-synonymous mutations that belongs to each mutation category  . We have aligned and compared the conservation of each residue in the polyprotein of the dengue serotype we used  with DENV1 , 3 , and 4 serotypes using CLUSTALW  . 
Membrane nanodomains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . Here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy  and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domains dictate KRasG12D  diffusion and trafficking in U2OS cells . KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains , each embedded in a larger domain  that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion . Moreover , KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling . In consequence , while the studies consistently reported two diffusion states – a ‘free’ diffusion state and another ‘immobile’ state , it remains to be seen whether a two-state model adequately recapitulates Ras membrane dynamics  . Thus , the nature of the membrane domains occupied by each of these states and how Ras molecules transition between the states in connection with multimer formation and signaling remain unclear . With spt-PALM , it is routine to acquire thousands of diffusion trajectories from a single cell . For example , variational Bayes SPT  allows construction of a detailed diffusion model from spt-PALM data with parameters such as the number of states , the diffusion coefficient and the occupancy of each state , as well as the state transition rates even when the individual trajectories are short  . Additional methods have also been introduced to quantitate various aspects of diffusion dynamics from SPT trajectories  . Here , we report our efforts on combining spt-PALM with detailed trajectory analysis to reveal previously unknown aspects of Ras diffusion on the cell membrane . With carefully controlled expression levels and photoactivation rate , spt-PALM trajectories of PAmCherry1-tagged KRasG12D  consistently reported three diffusion states , including a fast diffusion state , an immobile state , and a previously unidentified diffusion state with intermediate mobility . Leveraging the large number of trajectories , we were able to spatially map the diffusion states to distinctive membrane domains , estimate the size and lifetime of each domain , and define the spatial relationship between the domains . Moreover , in analyzing how KRasG12D transitions from one diffusion state to another , we discovered that KRasG12D diffusion follows a non-equilibrium steady state  model with net mass flow from the fast state to the immobile state , potentially coupled to the endocytic trafficking and membrane recycling of KRasG12D . Based on these results , we propose a new model to describe the membrane dynamics of KRasG12D , where nested membrane nanodomains dictate the diffusion and trafficking , with implications in Ras multimer formation and signaling . To investigate the lateral diffusion properties of KRasG12D under controlled expression levels , we established isogenic U2OS cells stably expressing PAmCherry1-KRasG12D under doxycycline  regulation  . Similar observations were reported for both HRas and KRas in previous low throughput SPT experiments , where two diffusion states – a ‘fast’ state and an ‘immobile’ diffusion state – were detected  . Since spt-PALM offers a much larger number of trajectories , we first asked whether KRasG12D diffusion on the cell membrane could indeed be described by a simple two-state model . To this end , we used two methods to analyze the Ras diffusion trajectories . The first approach fits cumulative distribution function  for Brownian motion to the squared displacements of Ras trajectories to extract diffusion coefficients and the respective occupancies of the diffusion states  . The second method , vbSPT , treats particle diffusion and the associated state transitions with a Hidden Markov Model and performs model selection through variational inference  . Thus , for diffusion model construction , we chose to use a high frame rate  and a low particle density  to eliminate misconnected trajectories while maintaining a sufficient number of trajectories . Using trajectories acquired and analyzed with the above precautions , both CDF fitting and vbSPT yielded similar three-state models for KRasG12D diffusion on the membrane of live U2OS cells . To rule out the possibility of imprecise single-molecule localizations causing vbSPT to misinterpret two-state spt-PALM data as three states , we performed vbSPT analysis on simulated trajectories based on a two-state model with varying localizations errors  added . The diffusion coefficient and the occupancy for each of the diffusion states were in good agreement between the two analysis methods and within each method when applied to different cells under the same conditions , as evidenced by the small errors  . Thus , we concluded that the membrane diffusion of KRasG12D under our experimental conditions is best described by a three-state model , demonstrating the existence of an intermediate state not detected in previous studies . The diffusion coefficient of the slowest state in Figure 1F is comparable to that expected from single-molecule localization error  , which implied that the actual diffusion of KRasG12D in this state may be even slower than it appeared . This result suggests that the slowest diffusion state of KRasG12D is essentially an immobile state , consistent with previous reports  . The diffusion model presented in Figure 2A summarizes the results from the spt-PALM trajectory analyses using vbSPT . Each circle represents one of the diffusion states with arrows indicating the transition probabilities between pairs of states . A notable feature of this model is that there appears to be a defined state transition path: KRasG12D molecules always transition between the fast  and the immobile  states by going through the intermediate  state , and direct transitions between the fast and the immobile states almost never occur . Consistent with the state transition path observed in Figure 2A , the histogram of step sizes immediately adjacent to the immobile steps corresponded to the intermediate diffusion state  while the distribution of the remaining steps had a broader peak implying a mixture of both fast and intermediate diffusion steps  . As expected , the step sizes assigned to the immobile states  are even smaller compared to that of the other two states . Thus , the intermediate state is not merely a state with intermediate mobility but effectively an obligatory link between the immobile and the fast states of KRasG12D . In the first scenario , fast diffusing KRasG12D may transition into the intermediate then the immobile state through spontaneous conformational changes unrelated to slow or static membrane structures . Alternatively , the immobile states could be caused by KRasG12D transiently binding to stationary molecules or structures  residing in membrane regions  that confer intermediate mobility to KRasG12D . Consequently , these intermediate domains would act as transition zones between membrane regions where KRasG12D exhibits fast diffusion and the sites of KRasG12D immobilization , yielding the observed state transition path . In either case , the intermediate and the immobile states of KRasG12D would be temporally and spatially correlated . Of note , even in the second scenario , KRasG12D targeting to the intermediate or the immobilization domains may be accompanied by changes in conformation . To distinguish between the two scenarios , we performed auto- and cross-correlation analysis on the locations of KRasG12D exhibiting a certain diffusion state  . Each diffusion trajectory typically contributes only a few points to the plots as limited by its short duration , and the points from multiple trajectories accumulate over time  to ‘paint’ a map of the membrane regions associated with each diffusion state . Despite yielding relatively short trajectories , the rapid turn-over of PAmCherry1 allowed more efficient sampling  of the membrane domains by KRasG12D in the field of view . As shown in Figure 2C , the intermediate state locations and the immobile state locations not only co-clustered , but also each appeared to self-cluster . Thus , spatial mapping of the KRasG12D state coordinates provided visual evidence for the physical presence of nested , nanoscopic domains conferring the distinct KRasG12D diffusion states . We next used pair correlation function ( g  ) to quantitate the spatial relationship between the KRasG12D diffusion states  . Here , the g  could be calculated for particles in the same diffusion state  or between two different diffusion states  ; in either case , amplitudes of g  significantly greater than that expected for a random distribution indicate spatial clustering . When multiple KRasG12D molecules visit the same domain , each at a different time point but exhibiting the same diffusion state , g  would detect spatial auto-correlation for the given state . Furthermore , g  based on spatial cross-correlation analysis clearly indicated co-clustering between the immobile and the intermediate state positions but not with the fast diffusion state  . We also estimated the lower-bound size of the domains associated with the immobile and the intermediate states of KRasG12D by calculating the maximum distance a molecule traveled while in a domain  . To gain insight into how KRasG12D interacts with the different membrane domains , we also analyzed the frame-to-frame deflection angle for the molecules within each domain . Thus , despite the finite localization precision at our frame rates , we expect that the measured step angles to reflect the interactions between KRasG12D and the membrane domains . Between the two domains , the enrichment of acute angles was more significant for the immobile state because the associated domains were smaller , such that KRasG12D molecules had a higher chance of hitting the domain boundaries . In comparison , KRasG12D molecules in the fast state exhibit  equal probabilities of moving in all directions , consistent with Brownian motion . The small variance in the estimated model parameters from data taken on different cells , be it from the same or different samples  , led us to hypothesize that KRasG12D membrane diffusion is in a steady state . To verify this , we divided each spt-PALM dataset with a minimum of 40 , 000 trajectories into four quarters  and computed the diffusion model for each quarter using vbSPT . As Figure 4A shows , the model parameters for all four quarters were essentially identical , which is the case for all qualifying datasets , confirming that KRasG12D diffusion is indeed in a steady state , at least in U2OS cells and at the investigated time scales  . In contradiction to KRasG12D diffusion being in a steady state , however , we found that the diffusion model as presented in Figure 2A cannot self-sustain . In the new , ‘equilibrated’ system configuration , KRasG12D spends as much as ~50% of its time in the immobile state , significantly more than the observed steady state occupancy of ~11% . The fast state is the opposite: the population residing in this state is significantly reduced from ~58% to ~25% . By contrast , the intermediate state changes only slightly  . To further characterize the NESS , we calculated the mass flow for each of the three KRasG12D diffusion states as the change in state occupancy per time interval . As shown in Figure 5A and B , within the NESS there is a net influx of KRasG12D molecules to the immobile state and a net outflux of molecules from the fast state , whereas the in- and out-fluxes for the intermediate state are comparable . We also calculated the mass flow for each of the three arms in the diffusion model in Figure 2A – in the clockwise direction , it would be the flow from the fast state to the intermediate state  , intermediate to immobile  , and immobile to fast  . Consistent with results in Figure 5A and B , the dominant net mass flow through the NESS is unidirectional – from the fast state to the intermediate to the immobile state  – with minimal ‘leakage’ from the fast to the immobile state . These results are consistent with the simulated system relaxation to equilibrium shown in Figure 4B , where the immobile and the fast diffusion states changed occupancies the most . For the KRasG12D NESS system to be sustained over time as we observed experimentally , KRasG12D would need to be replenished into the fast diffusion state and removed from the immobile state . Indeed , KRasG12D has previously been shown to undergo a constant exchange between the plasma membrane and the cytosol , and internalized KRasG12D is collected at recycling endosomes and transported back to the plasma membrane  . Our analyses suggest that the loss of KRasG12D from the membrane could be through the immobile state , and the replenishment through the fast state . Accordingly , the membrane trafficking of KRasG12D should follow the model presented in Figure 5D , where the arrows indicate the net mass flow between the connected states as well as between the states  and the environment  . Next , we sought to investigate whether experimental conditions such as expression level would alter the diffusion properties of KRasG12D . We reasoned that , if KRasG12D multimers form in membrane nanodomains – for example the intermediate and/or the immobilization domains in this case – then the observed fraction  of KRasG12D in either or both the intermediate and the immobile states should also be independent of expression level , as for the fraction of Ras molecules in multimers  . To address this question , we induced PAmCherry1-KRasG12D at a range of expression levels using different Dox concentrations  . By comparing estimated model parameters using spt-PALM data of PAmCherry1-KRasG12D at different Dox concentrations , we found that KRasG12D diffusion properties remained essentially the same across the range of expression levels investigated  . This model invariance is reflected across all conditions: not only was a three-state model optimal for describing the diffusion of KRasG12D as judged with vbSPT  and with CDF  , but the diffusion coefficients of each state , the state occupancies , as well as the transition probabilities between each pair of states , were indistinguishable within the error bars . Thus , we concluded that KRasG12D diffusion and trafficking on the membrane remains constant over the range of tested KRasG12D expression levels . Equivalently , the partitioning of KRasG12D in each of the three diffusive states – and the corresponding membrane domains – is stable and independent of KRasG12D protein density on the membrane . Using spt-PALM and detailed trajectory analysis , we were able to uncover rich details of how KRasG12D localizes and interacts with the membrane . Our results suggest that KRasG12D diffusion on the membrane is best recapitulated with a model that comprises three states – a fast state , an immobile state , and a previously unknown intermediate state . Leveraging the large number of diffusion trajectories , we were able to map the locations where KRasG12D exhibits specific diffusion states . These maps revealed membrane nanodomains corresponding to the intermediate and the immobile states of KRasG12D . The intermediate nanodomains encompass the immobilization sites in a nested configuration , such that KRasG12D almost always transitions between the fast and the immobile states through the intermediate state . We also found that KRasG12D membrane diffusion is in a non-equilibrium steady state , with KRasG12D constitutively removed from the membrane through the immobile sites and replenished as fast diffusing molecules , potentially coupled to KRasG12D trafficking via endocytosis and recycling . Importantly , partitioning of KRasG12D into the three states remains invariant over a wide range of KRasG12D expression levels , demonstrating that KRasG12D diffusion and trafficking through the three mobility states and associated nanodomains is in a maintained , homeostatic condition . Based on these findings , we propose a new model for Ras membrane diffusion and trafficking as shown in Figure 7 . During entrapment , a fraction of the trapped KRasG12D molecules leaves the plasma membrane to enter the cycle of KRasG12D trafficking . The three-state diffusion model proposed in this study refines existing models of KRasG12D membrane diffusion by introducing a previously unresolved intermediate state and capturing the role of membrane nanodomains in KRasG12D diffusion . While heterogeneous diffusion properties of KRasG12D and other Ras isoforms have been reported , the prior studies lacked the throughput or spatiotemporal resolutions to determine whether two states , namely a fast diffusion state and an immobile state , are adequate to recapitulate KRasG12D diffusion on the membrane . With the diffusion model defined , we were able to subsequently demonstrate that the intermediate and immobile states of KRasG12D are each associated with a distinct membrane domain . The measured sizes of the immobilization and the intermediate domains of KRasG12D were ~70 nm and ~200 nm , respectively , consistent with previous beliefs that nanoscopic membrane domains regulate Ras organization on the membrane . An important feature of the model in Figure 7 is that the membrane nanodomains associated with the immobile state of KRasG12D are surrounded by those associated with the intermediate state , creating a nested configuration between the two nanodomains . In this scenario , KRasG12D would have to travel through the intermediate zone to access the immobilization structures , explaining the state transition pathway in Figure 2A . Aside from the steady state partitioning of KRasG12D in the different membrane domains , our data also offered important insight into the membrane dynamics of KRasG12D . We measured a constant flow of KRasG12D from the fast state to the immobile state . Without exchanging KRasG12D with the cytosol , this directional flow would have caused net loss of KRasG12D from the fast state and accumulation in the immobile state as described in Figure 4B–C , yet the experimentally observed state configuration  remained stable over time  . We therefore reasoned that KRasG12D needs to be constantly removed from the immobile state  and replenished via the fast state  , potentially coupled to membrane trafficking such as endocytosis and recycling  , since previous studies have shown that endocytosis is a primary mechanism for KRasG12D removal from the plasma membrane  . The exact mechanism of KRasG12D internalization , however , remains incompletely understood at present . It is noteworthy that the spatial partitioning of KRasG12D and more generally the diffusion model were invariant over a broad range of KRasG12D expression levels , which coincides with previous observations where the clustered fraction of KRas or HRas was independent of the protein expression level  . Both mechanisms assumed the different states of the protein on the plasma membrane to be in equilibrium . 1 per µm2 , which is typical for single-molecule localization microscopy , yielded varying estimated model parameters in our early attempts to track KRasG12D with spt-PALM  . The PAmCherry1-KRasG12D coding sequence is placed under a CMV promoter regulated by the TetOn operon . Thus , for diffusion model construction , we chose to use a high frame rate  and a low particle density  to eliminate misconnected trajectory segments while maintaining a sufficient number of trajectories . We constructed single-molecule diffusion trajectories of PAmCherry1-KRasG12D by connecting the centroid positions of the same particles in successive frames . The step size histogram from PAmCherry1-KRasG12D typically consists of two segments; signal and noise . The inputs to the simulations were experimentally derived diffusion parameters: number of trajectories , diffusion coefficients , occupancies , transition matrix , frame rate , and the trajectory density . Once a state is assigned , particles are assigned new coordinates by drawing displacements for each dimension from the corresponding X ~ N  , where each state has a different diffusion coefficient . States for each trajectory segment were assigned using vbSPT  . The state assignment is based on trajectory displacements , not the coordinates  . Spt-PALM datasets with insufficient number of trajectories to fully fit up to a 10-state model  using vbSPT were discarded . 
The prevailing view in vertebrates for BMP gradient formation is through a counter-gradient of BMP antagonists , often along with ligand shuttling to generate peak signaling levels . Our analysis ruled out a BMP shuttling mechanism and a bmp transcriptionally-informed gradient mechanism . Surprisingly , rather than supporting a counter-gradient mechanism , our analyses support a fourth model , a source-sink mechanism , which relies on a restricted BMP antagonist distribution acting as a sink that drives BMP flux dorsally and gradient formation . We measured Bmp2 diffusion and found that it supports the source-sink model , suggesting a new mechanism to shape BMP gradients during development . BMP morphogen systems are established by a network of extracellular regulators  . A crucial class of these regulators is the BMP antagonists , defined by their ability to bind BMP ligand with high affinity , thereby blocking ligand-receptor interaction  . These antagonists bind to the BMP ligand , preventing BMP from binding its receptors  . Chordin is expressed in a larger domain than Noggin and Follistatin  . Unlike Noggin and Follistatin , Chordin can be cleaved by the metalloprotease Tolloid , releasing bound BMP ligand and allowing it to signal  . Previous studies in Drosophila show that the Drosophila ortholog of Chordin , Sog , can act as both a BMP agonist and as an antagonist during DV patterning . Tolloid then cleaves Sog , which releases BMP thus increasing peak BMP levels , a process altogether known as shuttling   . The shuttling mechanism is essential to Drosophila DV patterning , where Sog shuttles BMP ligand from lateral regions to dorsal regions   . This shuttling mechanism is required to steepen the BMP signaling gradient and specify the dorsal-most cell fates in the Drosophila embryo  . The shuttling of BMP ligand by Chordin has also been suggested to play a role in DV patterning in Echinoderms  and Nematostella  . It is unclear whether Chordin shuttles BMP in patterning vertebrate tissues . In Xenopus , the shuttling of a particular BMP ligand , ADMP , by Chordin was reported to play a role in DV axial patterning in the scaling of embryos  . In the mouse , Chordin has been suggested to shuttle BMP ligand from where it is expressed in the intervertebral disc to its site of signaling in the vertebral body  . Mathematical models of zebrafish and Xenopus DV patterning have predicted that Chordin could shuttle BMP ligand  . The transcriptional profiles of zebrafish BMP components at the onset of gastrulation resemble that of the Drosophila embryo  . In Drosophila , sog is expressed ventral-laterally while the BMP ligand dpp is expressed dorsally  . Vertebrates have undergone a DV axis inversion with respect to arthropods  , thus chordin is expressed dorsally while bmp ligands are expressed ventrally  . However , whether Chordin acts as a BMP agonist by shuttling BMP ligand during DV patterning in zebrafish or other vertebrates has not been determined  . In vertebrates , the mechanism by which the BMP ligands and antagonists shape this gradient is unclear . Several potential mechanisms have been proposed: 1 ) an inverse gradient of BMP antagonists imparts the shape of the BMP signaling gradient   , 2 ) BMP antagonists generate the peak BMP signaling levels by shuttling BMP ligand to these regions   , 3 ) the gradient shape mirrors the shape of the bmp expression domain   , and 4 ) the gradient is generated by BMP diffusing from its ventral source to a dorsal sink of BMP antagonists  . To identify the mechanism of BMP signaling gradient formation in the zebrafish embryo , we established a robust quantitative imaging method to directly measure the BMP signaling gradient . The modeling then provided information on key parameters to measure to identify the mechanism by which the BMP signaling gradient is formed . We used phosphorylated Smad5 protein as a direct read-out for BMP signaling in both wild type  , chordin mutant , and chordin heterozygous embryos . Combining the P-Smad5 data with a computational screen of mathematical models showed that shuttling of BMP during DV patterning does not shape the gradient , and that a gradient of bmp transcription cannot account for the gradient of BMP signaling activity . Through quantification and modeling , we present a new view of the mechanism that the BMP antagonists and ligand use to establish the BMP signaling gradient patterning the DV axis in zebrafish . To measure the BMP signaling gradient , we quantified the levels of the BMP signal transducer P-Smad5 across the entire embryo at single cell resolution . Smad5 is directly phosphorylated by the BMP type I receptor in response to BMP signaling , and P-Smad5 concentration has been shown to linearly correlate with the concentration of BMP ligand in the Drosophila wing disc and S2 cells  . Our quantitative analysis revealed that the BMP gradient during DV patterning is quite dynamic . We quantified the BMP signaling gradient at 30 min intervals across this period . To do so , we first needed to determine the expression domains of bmp , chordin , noggin , and tolloid to use for the mathematical model . We based the domain sizes on our own measurements  , as well as published in situ hybridizations for bmp  , chordin  , tolloid  , and noggin  . We estimated the size of the bmp expression domain via wholemount in situ hybridizations  , however , bmp2b expression appeared graded and not as easily measured as chordin and noggin . We instead measured the bmp2b expression gradient at 5 . We quantified the relative intensity of the fluorescent bmp2b in situ  and used it to estimate the BMP production domain in our model  . We then developed a system of partial differential equations to model the interactions of BMP , Chordin , Noggin , and Tolloid  . BMP , Chordin , Noggin , BMP-Chordin , and BMP-Noggin were modeled as diffusible species , while Tolloid was treated parametrically according to its domain of expression  . Domains of production of BMP , Chordin , and Noggin were estimated as described  . The dissociation constants for BMP-Chordin and BMP-Noggin were set to 1 and 0 . 7 hpf , since bmp and chordin are first expressed shortly after the mid-blastula-transition at 3 hpf  . Each parameter combination was then re-simulated without Chordin or Noggin to predict the BMP signaling gradient in a chordin or noggin loss-of-function  scenario . We then selected simulations that generated BMP profiles that fit our measured P-Smad5 gradient at 5 . If 80% of the BMP ligand was degraded where it was produced or accumulated there , the simulation was classified as transcriptional  . If the majority of BMP diffused away from its site of production rather than being bound by Chordin , the simulation was considered a source-sink mechanism  . Conversely , if the majority of BMP was bound at its site of production by Chordin , the simulation was classified as a Chordin counter-gradient mechanism  . We classified a simulation as shuttling if the ventral-most point in the predicted chordin-/- BMP profile was at least 20% lower than in WT , as shuttling by the antagonist leads to a net accumulation of ligand in the ventral-most region  . Notably , no transcriptional simulations were found , because our measured bmp expression profile  did not match our measured WT BMP signaling gradient  , and therefore BMP must diffuse from its site of production or be bound by Chordin to fit our measured signaling gradient . The mean of our bmp2b expression profile did not reflect the P-Smad5 gradient at 5 . 7 hpf  , however , the bmp2b expression profile displayed variability from embryo to embryo . To account for the possibility that the bmp expression profile reflects the WT P-Smad5 gradient , which fell within one standard deviation of the mean  , we simulated the mathematical model 250 , 000 additional times with a bmp expression input matching the WT P-Smad5 gradient  . Surprisingly , no counter-gradient solutions were found when bmp expression matched P-Smad5 . This is because Chordin binding to BMP would interfere with the shape of the BMP protein gradient , causing it to no longer match the measured BMP signaling gradient . The source-sink mechanism required BMP to have a high diffusion rate , so BMP could diffuse to a dorsally-localized sink of antagonists  . The counter-gradient mechanism required Chordin to have a high diffusion rate , so Chordin could diffuse ventrally to generate an antagonist gradient  . When either BMP or Chordin had moderately high diffusion rates  , decay rates were low to allow each more time to diffuse dorsally or ventrally , respectively . When BMP and Chordin range are plotted on the same axis , the segregation of the source-sink and counter-gradient mechanisms based on range is readily apparent  . The shuttling mechanism required that BMP-Chordin have a high diffusion rate and low decay rate in order to diffuse ventrally where Tolloid cleaves Chordin , which then releases BMP  . For the simulations performed where the bmp expression domain matched the signaling gradient , distinct biophysical requirements were also observed for each mechanism . The source-sink mechanism required BMP to have a high range , while the transcriptional mechanism required BMP to have a lower range  . Neither of these mechanisms constrained Chordin range  . Although only four shuttling mechanism solutions were identified , they required both BMP-Chordin range to be high and its decay rate to be low  . The shuttling solutions also required BMP range to be high  , because if Chordin moved ventrally to bind BMP in this scenario , it would interfere with the bmp expression gradient matching the BMP signaling gradient . In these simulations BMP moves dorsally to form the BMP-Chordin species that ultimately is shuttled back ventrally . To determine whether Chordin shuttling of BMP ligand plays a functionally relevant role in generating the ventral P-Smad5 peak in zebrafish , as it does in Drosophila , we quantified the P-Smad5 gradient of chordin mutant embryos over a developmental time series  . These results indicate that , unlike the Drosophila homolog Sog , Chordin plays no significant BMP shuttling role during zebrafish DV patterning . The P-Smad5 gradient in chordin mutants shows that this is minimal in zebrafish . Interestingly , the loss of chordin did not cause an increase in the ventral-most P-Smad5 peak level either  , suggesting that Chordin does not actively block BMP signaling there . To investigate this possibility , we overexpressed Bmp2/7 ligand in WT embryos at a level that fully ventralizes  them at 24 hpf  . These results indicate that BMP signaling in ventral regions is not saturated in WT embryos and that Chordin does not regulate the peak P-Smad5 levels by promoting or inhibiting signaling at these stages . We next tested whether the P-Smad5 gradient is robust to heterozygosity of chordin . In zebrafish chordin heterozygotes do not show any DV patterning phenotype at 24 hpf  . Consistent with this , we found that the chordin heterozygous and WT BMP signaling gradients were indistinguishable at 5 . Therefore , the BMP signaling gradient in zebrafish is robust to chordin heterozygosity and to a potential 50% decrease in Chordin levels , but not to the complete loss of Chordin . 7 hpf , assuming that heterozygotes have half the Chordin level of WT . We eliminated simulations that deviated by more than 8% from the chordin heterozygous or homozygous P-Smad5 gradients  . Many mathematical model simulations that fit the WT BMP signaling gradient no longer fit our chordin heterozygous and homozygous mutant data . Of the 15 , 142 simulations that fit the WT gradient alone , only 4059 fit the WT , chordin +/- , and chordin mutant gradients  . All simulations classified as shuttling had chordin LOF BMP distributions that deviated from the measured chordin mutant P-Smad5 gradient by more than 17%  . Many , but not all , simulations classified as counter-gradient deviated by more than 8% in their BMP distributions from the measured chordin heterozygous P-Smad5 gradient  . The source-sink solutions required a high BMP range of 60+ µm with a diffusivity above 1 µm2/s  . The counter-gradient mechanism required a lower BMP range , less than 60 µm , a high Chordin range above 40 µm with a diffusivity above 2 µm2/s  . Consistent with this , very high rates of Chordin cleavage by Tolloid restricted Chordin range and therefore was not compatible with the counter-gradient mechanism  . While BMP diffusivity needed to be high in source-sink solutions , BMP-Chd diffusivity was not restricted in either the source-sink or counter-gradient solutions  . We used the simulation in which the bmp expression profile matched the WT P-Smad5 gradient  . Of the 148 , 646 simulations that fit the WT data alone , 227 fit the WT , chordin heterozygous , and chordin mutant gradients , all of which were source-sink  . These source-sink simulations required a high BMP diffusivity and range  , similar to what was observed in the simulation with the measured bmp expression profile  . However , while 83 , 747 simulations fit a transcriptional mechanism with the WT data alone , none fit the WT , chordin heterozygous , and chordin mutant gradients  . This is because only a change in the bmp expression domain in the chordin mutant allows a transcriptional mechanism to fit both the WT and chordin mutant data . The bmp expression domain is known to become responsive to BMP signaling , creating a positive feedback loop during gastrulation  . While the initial bmp expression domains are established independently of BMP feedback , a BMP feedback loop becomes active with reported onset times ranging from ~5 . To test whether the bmp expression domain changes in chordin mutants at 4 . 7 hpf , we compared the bmp2b domain size in sibling chordin-/- and chordin +/- embryos  . There was no discernable difference in the bmp2b domain size at 4 . 7 hpf  , indicating that bmp transcriptional feedback is not active before 5 . Therefore , the increase in BMP signaling activity observed already at 4 . 7 hpf in chordin mutants  precedes a change in bmp expression , showing that the transcriptional mechanism cannot account for the P-Smad5 gradient profiles prior to 5 . We observed a change in bmp2b expression by 7 hpf , consistent with previous findings that bmp transcriptional feedback activates after gastrulation begins   . To test the source-sink mechanism further , we investigated BMP ligand diffusivity , a biophysical parameter that must be high in this mechanism  . To test if BMP diffusivity excludes or supports the source-sink mechanism , we measured the effective diffusivity of the Bmp2b ligand using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching  . We tagged Bmp2b by inserting the coding sequence of the fluorescent protein Venus between the pro- and mature coding domains of bmp2b . When mRNA of bmp2b-venus was injected into 1-cell stage zebrafish embryos , we detected both the pro- and mature domains of Bmp2b-Venus protein on a western blot  . We did not detect protein with a molecular weight equal to Venus alone in the embryos injected with bmp2b-venus , indicating that the Venus tag was not cleaved from Bmp2b during post-translational processing  . To further assess the activity and range of the Bmp2b-Venus chimera , we tested if Bmp2b-Venus could rescue embryos deficient in Bmp2b . As previously reported for bmp2b RNA  , we could rescue Bmp2b deficient embryos to a WT phenotype by injecting bmp2b-venus RNA  . 3 hpf embryos  . To ensure we only recorded extracellular Bmp2b-Venus , we photobleached a region away from the cells producing Bmp2b-Venus . To ensure that we were only measuring the diffusivity of Bmp2b-Venus alone and not Bmp2b-Venus bound to Chordin , we repeated the FRAP experiment in Chordin deficient embryos  . To determine the extent to which Venus limited Bmp2b diffusion , we measured the diffusivity of Venus alone . This faster rate of Venus diffusion indicates that it per se does not reduce BMP2 diffusion . A measured BMP diffusivity of ~4 µm2/s fits a large portion of the source-sink modeling simulations . In contrast , only 31 counter-gradient simulations were within 2 µm2/s of our measured diffusivity , and these simulations have very high BMP decay rates   . We can infer the BMP lifetime in the embryo based on our previous studies . We found previously that a pulse of injected BMP ligand protein in a bmp deficient embryo sustains P-Smad5 for at least 1 . In another study , we found that P-Smad5 can persist for a maximum of 40–60 min in the absence of BMP signaling  . A BMP ligand lifetime of 30 to 50 min is inconsistent with the low BMP half-lives required for the counter-gradient simulations , but consistent with the BMP half-lives of source-sink simulations  , suggesting that the source-sink mechanism much more likely establishes the BMP signaling gradient patterning the zebrafish DV axis . Uniformly expressing chordin by mRNA injection into one-cell stage chordin mutant embryos has been used to rescue chordin mutant embryos to adulthood  , including in our study here . We simulated the system with ubiquitous Chordin production and determined that 426 of the 1452 solutions that fit our WT , chordin-/- , and chordin +/- data with a BMP diffusivity within 2 um2/s of our measured 4 . 4 um2/s retain a WT BMP gradient when Chordin is uniformly produced . The zebrafish BMP signaling gradient is broad , reaching half of its maximum at ~40% of the total DV axis length  . Similarly , the loss of the main BMP antagonist in either organism , Chordin or Sog , causes markedly different effects on the BMP signaling gradient   . We found 251 simulations that fit the Drosophila-like WT and chordin mutant signaling gradients . We also excluded simulations with excessive BMP-Noggin interaction , as Drosophila does not possess noggin homologs  . The Drosophila-like simulations required a very mobile Chordin and BMP-Chordin species . Drosophila-like simulations required Chordin to have a high range to move to encounter the BMP in the ventral region  . Similarly , BMP-Chordin needed to have a high range so it could be shuttled a sufficient distance towards the ventral-most region of the embryo  . The cleavage of free Chordin by Tolloid needed to be low to allow Chordin range to remain high  . Conversely , the cleavage of bound Chordin needed to be high to release the BMP from Chordin  . Conversely , BMP range was relatively unrestricted in Drosophila-like simulations , as the shuttling mechanism relies more on BMP-Chordin mobility than BMP mobility  . The shape of the BMP signaling gradient differs greatly between Drosophila and zebrafish DV patterning  . The parameters that drive the most significant difference between the Drosophila-like and zebrafish simulations are the mobility and processing rates of BMP-Chordin  . For shuttling to be possible in a system with a broad peak of signaling , as it is in zebrafish , the BMP-Chordin cleavage rate needed to be low enough to allow BMP-Chordin to move farther and distribute BMP over a larger region  . For shuttling to be possible in a system with a tight peak of signaling as it is in Drosophila , BMP-Chordin cleavage needed to be rapid to release BMP-Chordin over a smaller region  . We show that a shuttling mechanism is not functioning in zebrafish , indicating that this delicate balance of BMP-Chordin mobility and Tolloid cleavage has been lost or did not emerge in vertebrate DV patterning . Sog and its vertebrate homolog Chordin differ in how they are processed by the metalloprotease Tolloid depending on whether it is bound to BMP ligand . Chordin can be cleaved by Tolloid whether bound to BMP ligand or not  , while Sog is only cleaved when bound to BMP  . Interestingly , when Sog is mutated to allow it to be processed by Tolloid regardless of BMP binding , the shuttling of BMP-Sog complexes in flies is greatly reduced  , suggesting that this attribute of Sog is necessary for effective shuttling . However , surprisingly , we found numerous shuttling simulations in our zebrafish modeling-based screen with the opposite properties , high Chordin cleavage rates and low BMP-Chordin cleavage rates  . The requirement for preferential cleavage of BMP-Chordin by Tolloid only emerged when we screened for Drosophila-like simulations , in which shuttling was generating a tight peak of BMP signal  . In Drosophila DV patterning , the BMP signaling gradient is so steep that its base falls well within the region of bmp expression , far from the sog/chordin expression domain   . To suppress lateral BMP signaling and form the Drosophila-like simulations seen in our mathematical model-based screen  , Sog/Chordin needed to have a high range to diffuse far from its site of expression to inhibit BMP signaling over most of the bmp expression domain  . However , to generate a narrow peak of BMP signaling  , BMP-Chordin cleavage by Tolloid needed to be high  . Therefore , the requirement to preserve the range of action of free Chordin , combined with the requirement to rapidly cleave BMP-Chordin to generate a steep peak of signaling may explain why the preferential cleavage of BMP-Sog by Tolloid is needed for shuttling in Drosophila . While the shuttling mechanism relies on the movement of the bound BMP-Chordin complex , the source-sink and counter-gradient mechanisms rely on the movement of unbound BMP and Chordin . The source-sink mechanism relies on BMP diffusing dorsally to bind Chordin . Conversely , the counter-gradient mechanism relies on Chordin diffusing ventrally to bind BMP . Consistent with this , we found that the majority of simulations consistent with the source-sink mechanism require a high BMP range and a high BMP diffusivity  , while the counter-gradient mechanism requires a high Chordin range and high Chordin diffusivity   . To illustrate the distinct manners by which a source-sink and counter-gradient mechanism would generate the zebrafish BMP signaling gradients observed , we graphically display in Figure 10 the relative contributions of BMP and Chordin diffusion and BMP-Chordin binding to gradient formation for the median simulations that fit our WT , chordin mutant , chordin +/- , and Bmp2b-Venus FRAP data . The primary differences between the source-sink and counter-gradient mechanisms manifest in the relative amount of Chordin protein that diffuses ventrally into the bmp expression domain and the primary role of Chordin in forming the BMP gradient . A counter-gradient mechanism leads to higher levels of Chordin that extend over a greater region of the ventral bmp expression domain compared to a source-sink mechanism  . Counter-gradient and source-sink mechanisms also differ significantly in where Chordin binds and inhibits BMP ligand activity along the DV axis , which is consistent with the distinct Chordin protein distributions  . In a counter-gradient mechanism Chordin binds BMP in a broader domain , extending over a much greater extent of the DV axis than in a source-sink mechanism  . In a source-sink mechanism , Chordin binds BMP largely in dorsal regions and extends little ventrally , effectively generating a driving force for the movement of BMP  . This dorsal sink of Chordin leads to a diffusive flux of BMP ligand down its concentration gradient  that largely shapes the BMP signaling profile in a source-sink mechanism  . We measured BMP diffusivity for the first time in vertebrates . Using FRAP , we show that BMP can diffuse relatively freely with a diffusivity of 4 . This high BMP diffusivity is consistent with previous BMP heterodimer protein injections into the extracellular space of BMP-deficient embryos , which could extend throughout the embryo and restore the WT P-Smad5 gradient within 1 . 5 hr , suggesting the BMP ligand can move rapidly  . Our computational screen found hundreds of simulations with a BMP diffusivity near 4 . The recent observation that bmp2b and bmp7a are expressed in a graded manner in WT embryos has lead to the hypothesis that the BMP signaling gradient may largely reflect the bmp expression gradient  . We sought to determine if the BMP signaling gradient in zebrafish is predominantly established by matching the bmp expression gradient . First , the relative shape of the bmp2b expression domain  did not precisely match the P-Smad5 gradient  . When we performed a mathematical model-based computational screen using a bmp expression profile that reflected the P-Smad5 WT gradient , no tested parameter combination fit both our measured WT and chordin LOF P-Smad5 gradients . For the transcriptional mechanism to work , the bmp expression domain would have to change in the chordin mutant condition to fit the mutant gradient profile . Finally , we showed that feedback by BMP signaling on bmp expression does not begin until after 5 . FGF  and Nodal signaling also repress bmp expression dorsally  . Importantly , BMP signaling does not play a role in the initial establishment of the bmp and chordin expression domains at 4 hpf , as both are unchanged prior to ~6 hpf in BMP pathway mutants  . At or after ~6 hpf , the bmp expression domain begins to respond to changes in BMP signaling levels , as bmp expression decreases in BMP pathway mutants and increases in BMP antagonist mutants  . We show that the bmp2b expression domain does not begin to shift in response to the loss of chordin until after 5 . Four-fold more individual solutions fit the WT , chd +/- , and chd -/- P-Smad5 profiles when the bmp expression input matched our measured bmp2b level  than when bmp expression was set to match the P-Smad5 profile   . Counter-gradient solutions only appeared when the bmp expression input was broader than the P-Smad5 profile  . More source-sink solutions were present when the bmp expression input was broader because BMP did not need to travel as far or fast  to reach the dorsal sink . Together , these effects show that the shape of the bmp expression domain contributes to BMP gradient formation even if it does not entirely account for it , similar to that found for the bicoid transcript and protein gradients that pattern the Drosophila AP axis  . While the source-sink gradient mechanism is also modulated by Chordin , Chordin instead acts in a distinct manner as a sink , binding BMP ligand predominantly in dorsal regions , thus allowing a BMP diffusive gradient to form throughout most of the ventral half of the embryo . By narrowing the compatible simulations successively with the WT , chordin +/- , and then chordin mutant P-Smad5 profiles , 15-fold more source-sink simulations than counter-gradient simulations perdured  . Furthermore , the computational modeling also illuminated the BMP diffusivity parameter as one to further test the source-sink mechanism . Significantly , our measured Bmp2 diffusivity further supports the source-sink mechanism of gradient formation . Future studies will be required to definitively determine the mechanism and further test the source-sink and counter gradient models of BMP gradient formation . bmp2b and bmp7a RNA were made using the SP6 MMessage Machine kit  . bmp2b or bmp7a cDNA in a pBluescript II KS-construct was linearized with NotI . To overexpress BMP , 6 pg of bmp7a RNA and 12 pg of bmp2b RNA were injected . A custom C2 probe was designed for bmp2b  . bmp2b probe was used at 1:10 dilution . Averaged bmp2b mRNA levels in 2 . 5 hpf embyros and the dorsal bmp2b signal in Wt 5 . 7 hpf embryo suggesting limited to zero bmp2b expression in the dorsal region . Cell types unresponsive to Bmp signaling were removed . These cell types are not patterned along the DV axis by BMP , and were eliminated from our analysis . chordin mutant embryos that was much larger than our observed embryo-to-embryo variability  . For each set of parameters defined in the parameter vector , we solved the five non-linear partial differential equations  for BMP ligand , Chordin , Noggin , and the complexes of BMP-Chordin , BMP-Noggin in MATLAB  . The production regions of BMP ligand , Chordin , Noggin , are specified along the nodes by mapping the spatial position to subsequent node position  . This approximation is valid considering that  BMP ligands are not saturating receptors and  Smad5 activity is not saturated  . This fusion construct was modified from pCS2  -HA-Bmp2b  . mRNA encoding the Bmp2b-Venus or secreted-Venus , was injected into one- or eight-cell stage embryos . For rescue experiments , 1 ng of bmp2b MO2  was injected along with 9 pg of bmp2b-venus RNA from a different needle  . To perform FRAP in the absence of Chordin , we injected embryos at the 1 cell stage with 1 ng of chordin MO1   . Next , bmp2b-venus RNA was injected into a single blastomere at the 8-cell stage . 
A number of these lysosomal transporters , however , remain enigmatic . We present a detailed analysis of MFSD1 , a hitherto uncharacterized lysosomal family member of the major facilitator superfamily . MFSD1 is not N-glycosylated . Mfsd1 knockout mice develop splenomegaly and severe liver disease . Proteomics of isolated lysosomes from Mfsd1 knockout mice revealed GLMP as a critical accessory subunit for MFSD1 . MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact . GLMP is essential for the maintenance of normal levels of MFSD1 in lysosomes and vice versa . Glmp knockout mice mimic the phenotype of Mfsd1 knockout mice . Our data reveal a tightly linked MFSD1/GLMP lysosomal membrane protein transporter complex . While the highly abundant transmembrane proteins like LAMP1 or LAMP2 are known since decades , there is still a major gap of knowledge about polytopic transporter proteins , mediating the transport of metabolites between the lysosomal lumen and the cytosol , but also the import of metabolites from the cytosol to lysosomes  . MFSD1 is a poorly characterized protein . MFSD1 is co-expressed in the transcription factor EB  -mediated gene network regulating lysosomal biogenesis and lysosomal gene expression and was thus identified as a direct TFEB-target gene  . Overexpression of epitope-tagged MFSD1 indicated co-localization with LAMP-proteins , demonstrating that it is indeed a resident lysosomal protein  . However , there are also reports showing non-lysosomal localization of MFSD1 at the plasma membrane of neurons and the Golgi-apparatus  . In this study , we provide a detailed biochemical characterization of MFSD1 . Endogenous MFSD1 is localized in lysosomes . In order to decipher the physiological function of MFSD1 , we generated and analyzed Mfsd1 knockout  mice . MFSD1-deficient mice develop a severe liver disease characterized by extravasation of erythrocytes , sinusoidal damage , loss of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells  and finally signs of fibrosis . By means of differential proteomics of isolated liver lysosomes from wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice , we identified GLMP as an essential accessory protein for MFSD1 . GLMP is a highly glycosylated lysosomal protein of so far unknown function . Deficiency of Mfsd1 leads to drastically reduced levels of GLMP and vice versa . MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact and Glmp-deficient mice resemble a phenocopy of Mfsd1 KO mice suggesting the MFSD1/GLMP complex to be a stable and functional relevant lysosomal transporter complex . We and others have identified MFSD1 previously in proteomic analyses of isolated liver lysosomes  . For validation of its lysosomal localization and the newly generated MFSD1-specific antibodies , we ectopically expressed N- and C-terminally hemagglutinin  -tagged MFSD1 in HeLa cells  . Co-immunofluorescence staining with antibodies against HA , LAMP2 and MFSD1 confirmed the co-localization of MFSD1  with LAMP2 and the specificity of our MFSD1 antibody . In addition to lysosomal localization , staining of the Golgi-apparatus was observed frequently  . By immunoblot , both HA- and MFSD1-antibodies detected a major band of ~35 kDa for N- or C-terminally tagged MFSD1 in transfected cells , differing from the predicted molecular weight of ~51 kDa  . Untagged MFSD1 was exclusively detected with the MFSD1 antibody  . Co-immunofluorescence staining of mouse embryonic fibroblasts  for endogenous MFSD1 with LAMP1 validated the lysosomal localization at the endogenous level  and notably MFSD1 was absent from Golgi-apparatus structures . These data were corroborated by analyzing magnetite-bead isolated lysosomes compared to the postnuclear supernatant from MEFs , showing a pronounced enrichment of endogenous MFSD1 in the lysosome-enriched fraction similar to the striking enrichment of the lysosome-marker LAMP1  . We next investigated the tissue-specific expression of MFSD1 using our antibody  . MFSD1 was detected ubiquitously in murine organs and highest levels were observed in kidney and spleen . Bioinformatics analysis of the primary sequence of MFSD1 by different online analysis tools predicted variable numbers of transmembrane domains  . We , therefore , analyzed if MFSD1 has an even or uneven number of TMDs by selective permeabilization of the PM with digitonin or of the PM and lysosomal membrane with saponin and antibody accessibility of N- or C-terminally HA-tagged MFSD1 ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1A  -  ) . These experiments clearly revealed that MFSD1 presents with an even number of TMDs and likely a 12 TMD spanning topology  . We identified a dileucine-based lysosomal sorting motif close to the cytosolic N-terminus of murine MFSD1  that is highly conserved among different species and bears similarity to motifs found in MFSD8 and SLC17A5/Sialin , structurally related lysosomal transporters  . Mutation of the two critical leucine residues to alanine  and transfection of the mutant cDNA in HeLa cells followed by immunofluorescence staining showed a striking missorting of MFSD1 to the plasma membrane   . For a quantitative readout by fluorescence-activated cell scanning  , we inserted an HA-tag in the first luminal loop between TMD1 and TMD2  to detect MFSD1 at the PM ( Figure 1J  ) . While only subtle amounts of wildtype-MFSD1 with the internal HA-tag were detectable at the PM after transfection of Hela cells and staining for HA  , a considerably higher number of MFSD1-positive cells was observed after transfection with MFSD1LL/AA  ( Figure 1J  ) . Biotinylation of cell-surface proteins followed by streptavidin pull-down of HA-tagged wildtype or MFSD1LL/AA transfected HeLa cells and detection with an HA-antibody showed a similar trend toward higher surface levels of MFSD1LL/AA compared to the wildtype  . Mutating this residue did not show any differences in the localization of MFSD1 as determined by immunofluorescence  or surface biotinylation  . These data show that the dileucine motif in the cytosolic N-terminus is critical for the sorting of MFSD1 to lysosomes . We wondered if MFSD1 , similar to the great majority of lysosomal membrane proteins  , is N-glycosylated . MFSD1 contains two putative N-glycosylation sites  . Protein extracts from HeLa cells transfected with HA-tagged MFSD1 were treated with the endoglycosidases Peptide-N-Glycosidase F  and Endoglycosidase H  . However , none of the two endoglycosidases altered the apparent molecular weight of MFSD1 , indicating a lack of N-glycosylation . Again , no shift in the apparent molecular weight was observed , demonstrating that MFSD1 is , unusual for a lysosomal membrane protein , not N-glycosylated . In summary , MFSD1 is endogenously localized in lysosomes under steady state conditions , is not N-glycosylated , is ubiquitously expressed in murine tissues and its transport to lysosomes is mediated by a dileucine-based sorting motif in the N-terminus . In order to determine the physiological functions of MFSD1 , we generated Mfsd1 knockout  mice . The expression of Mfsd1 is abrogated in this strain due to an artificial splice acceptor  site and translation of a LacZ fusion transcript . No residual Mfsd1-transcript or -protein was detectable as determined by qPCR , immunoblot , immunohistochemistry in liver lysates or liver sections using our MFSD1 antibody or Mfsd1-specific primers  , implicating that the tm1a allele leads to a complete loss of MFSD1 in this mouse strain  . Mfsd1 homozygous and heterozygous mice were born according to the expected Mendelian frequency  and no differences in weight gain were observed in a longitudinal study in male or female mice between wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice until 13 weeks-of-age  . However , both male and female Mfsd1 KO animals had a reduced body weight with 12 months-of-age compared to wildtype animals  . While young  Mfsd1 KO animals were unremarkable , the liver of Mfsd1 KO animals > 12 weeks-of-age revealed a striking pathology characterized by tuberous appearance with uneven surface  . Cre-mediated germline deletion of exon 3 in Mfsd1 yielding the tm1d allele after consecutive breeding of the tm1a mice with constitutively expressing Flp- and Cre-deleter mice  showed the same macroscopic phenotype , corroborating the finding that tm1a mice are functional knockouts  . Alanine aminotransferase  , aspartate aminotransferase  and glutamate dehydrogenase  values in serum of Mfsd1 KOs were significantly elevated , but lactate dehydrogenase  and albumin levels were in the normal range , demonstrating established but generally mild damage of the liver parenchyma  . No signs of lysosomal storage or abnormal lysosomes  were observed at the ultrastructural level in hepatocytes  . The specific activity of the three lysosomal enzymes β-hexosaminidase , β-galactosidase and β-glucuronidase was not significantly different between wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice at 13 weeks  , further strengthening the finding that lysosomes are not obviously altered . Hematoxylin and eosin and toluidine blue staining of liver sections of Mfsd1 KO animals of 12 weeks-of-age revealed local foci with hepatocyte atrophy or loss . The normally wide sinusoids , which in Mfsd1 wildtype mice were lined by a special fenestrated endothelium  , were in Mfsd1 KO mice replaced by ordinary narrow non-fenestrated capillaries . In Mfsd1 KO mice , LSECs were partially absent in spots of focal damage and hepatocytes had direct contact with their microvilli to the blood . A quantitative TMT-based proteomics experiment from total liver lysates of wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice  additionally supported our results of endothelial remodeling , platelet aggregation and pro-fibrotic conditions obtained by qPCR and histology . We wondered if the LSEC degeneration is due to a LSEC-cell-intrinsic trigger or caused for example as a secondary alteration due to dysfunctional hepatocytes , and therefore conditionally deleted Mfsd1 in endothelial cells by crossing floxed Mfsd1 mice  with Tie2-cre deleter mice  . Tie2-conditional mice  lacked expression of MFSD1 in LSECs but not in hepatocytes  , and notably had the same tuberous liver appearance as the full germline Mfsd1 KO , strengthening a pivotal role of MFSD1 in LSECS  . It should be noted , however , that Tie2 cre is also expressed in Kupffer cells , and additionally deleted Mfsd1 in Kupffer cells . In summary , the knockout of Mfsd1 leads to a focal damage of sinusoids characterized by loss of LSECs and new capillarization . Most Mfsd1 KO mice reach a normal life span , and the liver phenotype does not show a major deterioration . In a first effort aiming to identify MFSD1 substrates and assuming that a toxic metabolite might be increased in the circulation , we analyzed the blood and urine from Mfsd1 KO mice for different amino acids  . MFSD1 shows a relatively high homology to members of the proteobacterial intraphagosomal amino acid transporter  family , transporters found in Legionella pneumophila transporting valine and threonine  . However , no major difference for any of the analyzed amino acids was detectable between wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice in either serum or urine . A direct uptake of a radioactively 3H-labeled amino acid mixture , 3H threonine or 3H valine from acidified cell culture medium in HEK-cells overexpressing the MFSD1LL/AA construct was also undetectable  . These data indicate that MFSD1 is likely not a transporter for any of the tested amino acids at least under the tested conditions . We next investigated how the deficiency of MFSD1 affects the composition of the lysosomal proteome . Lysosomes from three wildtype and three Mfsd1 KO mice were isolated from the liver by differential centrifugation followed by sucrose-gradient centrifugation after injection of the mice with Tyloxapol . A number of proteins showed slight but significant differences between wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice  but only the levels of two proteins showed outstanding differences: MFSD1 was strikingly decreased as expected , but additionally another protein showed prominently reduced levels in all three replicates: GLMP , formerly known as NCU-G1 and later renamed to ‘Glycosylated Lysosomal Membrane Protein’  . GLMP is a highly glycosylated type I transmembrane protein previously shown to be a component of the lysosomal membrane  . In order to validate our proteomics-based findings , we detected GLMP by immunoblot with an antibody raised against its luminal domain  . In confirmation with our proteomics data , GLMP was undetectable in isolated liver lysosomes from Mfsd1 KO mice . We next investigated if GLMP levels are likewise reduced in total liver membranes and moreover also in other tissues of Mfsd1 KO mice . GLMP levels were strongly diminished in all tested tissues including kidney , liver , lung and spleen  . Notably , qPCR of total liver cDNA revealed comparable levels of the Glmp transcript between wildtype and Mfsd1 KO animals  , indicating a posttranscriptional mechanism leading to GLMP reduction . In summary , Mfsd1 KO leads to a specific and almost complete absence of GLMP . The apparent lack of GLMP in tissues of Mfsd1 KO mice implicates that both proteins directly interact , depend on each other or regulate each other . We therefore tested , if the absence of GLMP conversely leads to altered MFSD1 levels . Immunoblotting of membrane fractions from Glmp KO mice  revealed an almost complete absence of MFSD1 in all analyzed tissues  comparable to the reduction of GLMP in Mfsd1 KO mice  . Immunofluorescence staining of liver and kidney sections additionally confirmed the absence of any immunoreactive MFSD1 in Glmp KO tissue  . Similar to the Glmp transcript levels in Mfsd1 KO mice , Mfsd1 transcript levels were unchanged in Glmp KO mice , again pointing towards posttranscriptional regulatory mechanism  . Interestingly , the liver of Glmp KO mice has , like Mfsd1 KO mice , a tuberous appearance with uneven surface and fibrosis  . We therefore analyzed the liver of Glmp KO mice in more detail to directly compare the phenotype with that of Mfsd1 KO mice . Similar to Mfsd1 KO mice , Glmp KO mice showed local foci where hepatocytes were lost and LSEC were replaced by ordinary capillary endothelium  . Similar to Mfsd1 KO mice , the sites of liver injury in Glmp KO mice showed increased staining for CD31 and vWF at sites of liver injury  . Finally , we determined the same set of transcripts as we did for Mfsd1 KO mice . With the exception of Factor VIII , all evaluated transcripts showed the same differential regulation as in Mfsd1 KO mice  . It should be noted that Glmp KO mice , similar to Mfsd1 KO mice , suffer from splenomegaly  . In conclusion , GLMP deficiency leads to a drastic decrease of MFSD1 and vice versa , and both Glmp- and Mfsd1 KO mice present a phenocopy as a result of ‘co-deficiency’ of both proteins . The genetic data from Mfsd1 KO and Glmp KO mice provide strong evidence for a direct dependence of both proteins on each other . MFSD1 could be efficiently immunoprecipitated from HeLa cells transfected with HA-tagged GLMP and untagged MFSD1 with the MFSD1-specific antibody and GLMP-HA was co-immunoprecipitated . Vice versa , GLMP-HA was efficiently precipitated with the HA antibody and MFSD1 was co-precipitated . Isotype-matched control-antibodies neither precipitated GLMP-HA nor MFSD1 . LAMP1-HA , although expressed with lower efficiency compared to GLMP-HA , included as a negative control , was not co-immunoprecipitated with MFSD1 and not detected even after longer exposure . We additionally repeated the co-immunoprecipitation experiments with GFP-tagged MFSD1 and HA-tagged GLMP and included additional controls: C-terminally GFP-tagged MFSD1 was efficiently precipitated using the GFP antibody , and HA-tagged GLMP was efficiently co-immunoprecipitated , but not HA-tagged LAMP1 included as a negative control  . Just like the wildtype proteins , PM localized MFSD1LL/AA-GFP and GLMPY400A where co-immunoprecipitated though with lower efficiency , indicating that the two mutants used for the amino-acid uptake experiments  still interact and form the complex which might be necessary for transporter activity  . In summary , these experiments suggest a direct physical interaction of GLMP and MFSD1 and support our genetic data . In an independent experimental setup , we validated the physical interaction between MFSD1 and GLMP by FACS-based fluorescence resonance energy transfer   . Both , MFSD1 and GLMP were fused either to eGFP or mKate2 and the constructs were transfected in HeLa cells . As negative controls the polytopic lysosomal transporter MFSD8 and the single-transmembrane protein LAMP1 were included in the experimental setup . However , notably only the combination of MFSD1 and GLMP , independent of which tag was used , yielded efficient FRET comparable to the positive control of the eGFP-mKATE2 fusion protein , but not any of the negative controls , indicating close proximity of the two proteins and thereby their physical interaction . In order to decipher the interplay between MFSD1 and GLMP mechanistically , we established a cell-based model . MEFs from both KO mouse lines were generated . We analyzed GLMP and MFSD1 expression levels in membrane extracts by immunoblot  . GLMP levels were below the limit of detection in Mfsd1 KO MEFs . MFSD1 on the other hand was strongly reduced in Glmp KO MEFs , but not completely absent as observed before in most murine Glmp KO tissues  . qPCR of MEFs revealed an increase of the transcripts of Mfsd1 in Glmp KO MEFs and an increase of the Glmp transcript in Mfsd1 KO MEFs  , suggesting a transcriptional upregulation as a compensation for the reduced protein levels . We next analyzed the localization of the remaining MFSD1 in Glmp KO MEFs  . Mfsd1 KO MEFs were used as a specificity control for the MFSD1-antibody . While MFSD1 shows extensive co-localization with LAMP1 in lysosomes of wildtype MEFs , MFSD1 staining was absent in Mfsd1 KO MEFs validating the specificity of the staining . The remaining amounts of MFSD1 in Glmp KO MEFs notably did not co-localize with LAMP1 , but with the Golgi marker GM130 . A rescue experiment using transfection of HA-tagged GLMP fully restored the co-localization of MFSD1 with LAMP1 in Glmp KO MEFs , while HA-tagged LAMP1 , used as a negative control , did not rescue MFSD1 , indicating a critical interdependence of GLMP and MFSD1 . This experiment excludes the possibility of clonal differences of the cell lines as an explanation for the Golgi-localization of MFSD1 in Glmp KO cells  . These data also implicate that the interaction of MFSD1 and GLMP is essential for the stability of both proteins , but might additionally affect post-Golgi-sorting . We therefore analyzed if either MFSD1 or GLMP are properly transported to lysosomes in MEFs with a KO of the other interaction partner . Transfection of HA-tagged MFSD1 in Glmp KO MEFs followed by immunofluorescence staining for HA and LAMP1 revealed predominantly co-localization between MFSD1 and LAMP1 , indicating proper sorting to lysosomes  . Vice versa , expression of HA-tagged GLMP in Mfsd1 KO MEFs similarly showed predominantly lysosomal localization . These data suggest that the interaction between MFSD1 and GLMP is not entirely essential for their trafficking to lysosomes and both proteins can still reach lysosomes in the absence of the other interaction partner . Finally we evaluated if a blockage of lysosomal proteolysis can rescue MFSD1 levels in Glmp KO MEFs  . Treatment of GLMP wildtype and Glmp KO MEFs with Bafilomycin A  , E64D or Leupeptin  partially restored the levels of MFSD1 as determined by immunoblot , indicating that accelerated lysosomal proteolysis causes the decrease in MFSD1 levels in the absence of GLMP . These data were supported by transfection of HA-tagged MFSD1 in HeLa cells alone , or co-transfection with GLMP or LAMP1 followed by immunoblot for HA and MFSD1  . Expression of MFSD1-HA alone and co-transfection with LAMP1 leads to the generation of N- and C-terminal proteolytic fragments  . Treatment of cells with different inhibitors for lysosomal proteolysis  significantly reduced the formation of these fragments  , indicating that they are generated by lysosomal proteases . Notably , co-transfection of MFSD1-HA with GLMP , but not LAMP1 , significantly reduced the formation of these proteolytic fragments , indicating that specifically GLMP is able to protect MFSD1 from proteolysis  . In line with these experiments , immunoblot analysis of cells transfected with the wildtype MFSD1-HA cDNA , but not the PM-localized MFSD1LL/AA–HA mutant showed the proteolytic fragments  , indicating that they are not due to misfolding or destabilization of MFSD1 in pre-lysosomal compartments , but occur specifically in lysosomes if GLMP is limiting . In conclusion , MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact , their transport to lysosomes does not essentially depend on each other and the stability MFSD1 against lysosomal proteolysis depends on GLMP . However , there is still a major gap of knowledge about the nature of polytopic transporter proteins , mediating the transport of metabolites between the lysosomal lumen and the cytosol . Previous proteomic studies identified a large number of novel putative lysosomal transporters  , and in this study , we characterized one of those candidate transporters , MFSD1 in detail . We identified GLMP as an essential accessory subunit of MFSD1 and establish an essential role of GLMP and MFSD1 in the homeostasis of the liver and particularly LSECs . The major goal of this study was to identify the substrate  of MFSD1 by analyzing KO mice , assuming that a substrate accumulates in lysosomes . The phenotype of Mfsd1 KO mice is complex and the liver phenotype did not resemble that observed in mouse models of lysosomal storage diseases . We failed to detect any signs of typical lysosomal storage like aberrant storage material or enlarged lysosomes in the liver or MEFs . By comparing the liver and spleen pathology with other pathological situations , especially involving the liver sinusoids , we found some similarities of the phenotype observed in Mfsd1 KO mice  with ‘sinusoidal obstruction syndrome’  , a pathology observed in humans and mouse models treated with oxaliplatin  or patients taking pyrrolizidine alkaloid-containing herbal remedies  . Since the LSECs are in extensive exchange with the blood , it is worthwhile speculating that a toxic metabolite present in trace amounts , possibly transported under normal conditions by MFSD1 , is circulating in the bloodstream and causing LSEC cell death . However , while it is reasonable to assume that the accumulation of a toxic substrate or dysfunction of lysosomes due to the loss of the transporter function of MFSD1 is the underlying cause for the observed severe phenotype in Mfsd1 and Glmp KO mouse strains , we cannot provide final certainty for this hypothesis . We cannot finally exclude that GLMP might also interact with other  proteins or provides general stability for the lysosomal membrane like LAMP proteins do . MFSD1 might be important for indirectly transporter-related functions like nutrient sensing or even transporter-unrelated processes . MFSD1 shows a relatively high homology to members of the proteobacterial intraphagosomal amino acid transporter  family , transporters found in Legionella pneumophila transporting valine and threonine  . However , we did not observe any major difference in the serum of Mfsd1 KO mice for any of the analyzed amino acids and failed to show a valine- or threonine transport in a cell-based assay . While these results do not exclude amino acids as substrates , other metabolites are more likely transported by MFSD1 . Overexpressed human and mouse MFSD1 was previously shown to co-localize with LAMP1 or LAMP2 , respectively , indicating that it is a resident lysosomal protein  . However , other reports revealed a non-lysosomal localization of MFSD1 at the PM of neurons and the in Golgi-apparatus  . Our experiments , detecting endogenous MFSD1 in mouse cells and tissues with perfect co-localization with lysosomal markers leave no doubt on its localization in lysosomes . However , interestingly we also observed Golgi-localized MFSD1 upon overexpression in HeLa cells , but not at the endogenous level in MEF cells . A likely explanation for this discrepancy is that GLMP is a limiting factor under these overexpression conditions . MFSD1 , together with other MFS transporters , belongs to the atypical SLCs . Extensive glycosylation is a typical feature of the great majority of lysosomal proteins including the integral membrane proteins . The abundant presence of N-glycans results in a tight glycocalyx which is thought to protect lysosomal membrane proteins from degradation by luminal lysosomal proteases . According to our data , MFSD1 is not N-glycosylated . MFSD1 is therefore one of the very few known non-glycosylated multi-transmembrane spanning integral lysosomal membrane proteins together with few rare exceptions: The chloride channel/Cl  /H  -exchanger CLC-7 , similarly lacks N-glycosylation . However , the interaction between MFSD1 and GLMP differs at least in one regard: GLMP and MFSD1 can reach lysosomes independent from each other , as shown by expression of both proteins in the corresponding KO MEFs . If the interaction is also critical for the transporter activity of MFSD1 remains to be determined . In regard to the dependence on an accessory subunit , MFSD1 and CLC-7 closely resemble a number of plasma-membrane localized transporter proteins which contain β-subunits . One of those SLCs is the monocarboxylate transporter-1  . A secondary structure prediction of the luminal domain of GLMP using the ‘Phyre2’-web portal  predicts similarity with the immunoglobulin-fold , and it can be speculated that the interaction of SLC transporters and immunoglobuline-like proteins have developed co-evolutionary . Very recently , another lysosomal SLC-transporter was shown to critically depend on an accessory subunit: the nitrogen-containing-bisphosphonate transporter SLC37A3 forms a complex with the type I single-transmembrane spanning protein ATRAID   . Very much like in the situation of MFSD1 and GLMP , the knockout of ATRAID leads to highly reduced stability of the transporter SLC37A3 , implicating that ATRAID confers protection to SLC37A3 . Notably , similar to OSTM1 and GLMP , ATRAID has a highly glycosylated luminal N-terminus and a short cytosolic C-terminus . SLC37A3 itself is glycosylated . Although the intracellular sorting of ATRAID in SLC37A3 KO cells and the sorting of SLC37A3 in ATRAID KO cells was not investigated , SLC37A3 is hypoglycosylated upon ectopic expression in ATRAID KO cells , implicating at least in part an important role of the ATRAID in intracellular sorting  . Our data show that the sorting of ectopically expressed GLMP in Mfsd1 KO cells or MFSD1 in Glmp KO cells to lysosomes is not critically altered , but that instead the stability against lysosomal proteolysis of MFSD1 is altered in Glmp KO cells . While we cannot exclude subtle alterations in the sorting , the protection of MFSD1 against proteolysis seems to be more critical . On the other hand , while this explanation sounds reasonable for MFSD1 , the levels of GLMP in Mfsd1 KO cells are also strikingly reduced , and the stability of GLMP apparently also critically depends on the non-glycosylated MFSD1 , a counter-intuitive finding that implicates that not only glycosylation matters , but also the protein-protein interaction is essential to maintain a stable protease-resistant complex . It would be of great interest to determine the interaction in more detail , and which protein domains/loops of GLMP and MFSD1 convey this interaction . Additionally GLMP might be important for promoting a more stable conformation of MFSD1 , and it would be interesting to figure out if the two proteins already interact in the ER . Once a natural substrate for MFSD1 is identified , a major question is of course if the interaction with GLMP is also essential for the transport , for example by mediating substrate recognition or increase substrate supply . An MFSD1-specific polyclonal antibody was generated by immunizing rabbits with the peptide ‘EDEDGEDRALLGGRREADC’ corresponding to the N-terminus of mouse MFSD1 . A GLMP-specific polyclonal antibody was generated by immunizing rabbits with the peptide ‘CQAFSRSGRPAQPPRLLH’ within the luminal domain of mouse GLMP . MFSD1 and GLMP antibodies were produced by Pineda Antikörper Service  . In the resulting mouse line ( tm1a , Knockout-first , Mfsd1tm1a  Wtsi ) , expression of Mfsd1 is disrupted by a splice acceptor  site in the intronic sequence between exons 2 and 3 . A β-galactosidase reporter  is expressed under the control of the endogenous Mfsd1 promotor . To generate conditional mice ( Mfsd1tm1c  Wtsi ) and cre-deleted mice in the germline ( Mfsd1tm1d  Wtsi ) , mice were crossed with the corresponding cre-deleter mice  . The presence of Mfsd1 WT , tm1a , tm1c , tm1d , flp and cre alleles in the mice genome was analyzed by PCR . The following primers were used: CSD-MFSD1-F 5’-TATGGACTCTGCCCACAGTGTTACG-3’ , CSD-MFSD1-ttR 5’ACTCAGCCCTTTTCTGTCTCCTACG , CSD-MFSD1-R 5’-AATGGCCAAAGACAGGCAGAAATGG-3’ , CSD-neoF 5’-GGGATCTCATGCTGGAGTTCTTCG-3’ , Cre Fw 5-ATGCGCTGGGCTCTATGGCTTCTG-3’ , Cre Rv 5’-TGCACACCTCCCTCTGCATGCACG-3’ , Flp Fw 5’-GTCACTGCAGTTTAAATACAAGACG-3’ , Flp Rv 5’-GTTGCGCTAAAGAAGTATATGTGCC-3’ . Human hLAMP1 and mouse mLAMP1 constructs were cloned using cDNA from HeLa cells or mouse liver as a template , respectively . For the MFSD1-HAint construct with an internal HA-tag between transmembrane domains 1 and 2 , the HA tag was inserted between amino acids 76 and 77 with the following primers: MFSD1  Rv agcgtagtctgggacgtcgtatgggtagtcccgtttcacctgagtct and MFSD1  Fw tacccatacgacgtcccagactacgctatgcaagtgaacaccacgaa . HA coding sequence was introduced in MFSD1-HAint by overlap extension-PCR . The mutations MFSD1 11 , 12LL_AA and 195-198Y_A were introduced in the cloning primer and by site-directed mutagenesis , respectively . HeLa cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts  were cultivated in DMEM containing 4 . Wild type and Mfsd1tm1a/tm1a embryos from female mice sacrificed 13 . MEFs were treated with the inhibitors of lysosomal proteolysis Bafilomycin A1  , E64D  or leupeptin  for 24 hr . Lysosomes were isolated from the mouse liver as described previously  . Lysosomes were isolated from MEFs as described previously  . In brief , 100 μg of tritosome fractions isolated from three wildtype and Mfsd1 KO livers were digested by in-solution digest onto centrifugal filter units . The cell lysates were denatured in 0 . HA-tagged constructs were detected with a peroxidase conjugated monoclonal antibody against HA  . For immunoprecipitation of GFP-tagged proteins , a monoclonal mouse anti-GFP antibody  was used . Mice were perfused transcardially with 0 . For mouse experiments , age-matched wildtype mice from the same colony were used as controls . 
Microtubule-based transport by the kinesin motors , powered by ATP hydrolysis , is essential for a wide range of vital processes in eukaryotes . We obtained insight into this process by developing atomic models for no-nucleotide and ATP states of the monomeric kinesin motor domain on microtubules from cryo-EM reconstructions at 5–6 Å resolution . By comparing these models with existing X-ray structures of ADP-bound kinesin , we infer a mechanistic scheme in which microtubule attachment , mediated by a universally conserved ‘linchpin’ residue in kinesin  , triggers a clamshell opening of the nucleotide cleft and accompanying release of ADP . Binding of ATP re-closes the cleft in a manner that tightly couples to translocation of cargo , via kinesin's ‘neck linker’ element . These structural transitions are reminiscent of the analogous nucleotide-exchange steps in the myosin and F1-ATPase motors and inform how the two heads of a kinesin dimer ‘gate’ each other to promote coordinated stepping along microtubules . Conventional kinesin is the founding member of a superfamily of molecular motors that use the energy of ATP hydrolysis to transport cargo along microtubules , serving essential roles in a wide variety of cellular processes , most notably mitosis and neuronal transport . More than 20 different members of the kinesin superfamily are identified with mitosis alone , underscoring the motor's fundamental importance in the cellular life cycle  . Underlying this behavior , each motor domain cycles between conformations that are strongly attached to the microtubule  and ones that are weakly attached  . Additionally , binding of ATP during the microtubule-attached phase of the motor domain causes a structural element called the neck linker  to dock along the side of the motor domain in the plus end direction  . Kinesin-microtubule complex at 5–6 Å resolution . Schematic of a stepping kinesin dimer on a microtubule protofilament . Cross-sections of the reconstructed co-complexes of no-nucleotide kinesin  and ADP•Al•Fx  with the microtubule , running parallel to a tubulin protofilament . Statistics and diagnostic images related to image processing and 3D reconstruction of the kinesin-microtubule complex . ,  FSC curves for our 3D reconstructions of microtubules decorated by no-nucleotide and ADP•Al•Fx bound kinesin  . Representative image of the ADP•Al•Fx sample , after motion correction . Post-processed diagnostic image for a 14-protofilament microtubule similar to that shown in  , depicting the filament in a longitudinally compressed form . 004 The key structural transitions that underlie kinesin's stepping behavior remain uncertain . Kinesin possesses a Walker-type active site architecture , in which one important structural element  coordinates the nucleotide alpha- and beta-phosphates , while two ‘switch’ loops serve as nucleotide response elements  . It has long been suspected that these switch loops act as ‘gamma phosphate sensors’ , transitioning from ‘open’ to ‘closed’ conformations in response to ATP . In this type of scheme , closure of the switch loops would propagate across the motor domain via a series of linked allosteric rearrangements in order to dock the neck linker to the motor domain . Moreover , because the switch II loop is N-terminally adjacent to one of kinesin's microtubule-interacting subdomains , sometimes called the switch II cluster , it was further proposed that kinesin could use the same gamma phosphate-sensing mechanism in order to control its microtubule affinity  . A major barrier to further progress in elucidating kinesin's mechanism has been the inability of cryo-EM methods to much exceed nanometer resolution with kinesin-microtubule complexes  , making it difficult or impossible to determine which crystal structures of kinesin  correspond to the motor's functionally relevant , microtubule-attached states . Recently , a series of X-ray crystal structures of kinesin have been solved in the presence of ATP analogs that are thought to closely resemble kinesin's ATP state on microtubules; these include not only two structures of kinesin solved in the absence of protein co-factors  , but also a structure of kinesin co-complexed with a dimer of tubulin  . However , it has remained unclear how closely these structures resemble the corresponding state of kinesin when bound to its physiological substrate  , and structure models for other nucleotide states of microtubule-attached kinesin have remained elusive . Of particular importance is whether switch loop closure is triggered by ATP binding  or by some other event , which would allow ATP binding to have a distinct function . The coordination that occurs between two heads in a kinesin dimer is even more challenging to explain with existing structural models . Recent single-molecule optical trapping studies of kinesin dimers are most consistent with a model in which the leading head of a stepping dimer has substantially reduced nucleotide affinity compared with the trailing head  . Related to this observation , it was also shown that the nucleotide affinity of the kinesin motor domain depends on the direction of a load externally applied to the neck linker  . These lines of evidence indicate that kinesin's neck linker may serve as a control lever , ‘gating’ the affinity for nucleotide depending on whether it points forward  or backward   . To address these questions , we exploited recent advances in cryo-EM methodology to obtain structure models of the kinesin motor domain complexed with microtubules in the absence of nucleotide and following binding of the non-hydrolyzable transition state analog , ADP•Al•Fx . Analysis of these structures leads us to infer that kinesin's switch loops , controlled by microtubules , serve as a nucleotide exchange factor while ATP binding docks the neck linker via a clamshell distortion of the active-site nucleotide cleft . The corresponding allosteric pathways deduced from our structures are distinct from prior proposals that originated from X-ray structures of free kinesin or from lower-resolution cryo-EM reconstructions , including a very recent study where the reported resolution was in the ∼6–7 Å range  . Moreover , the resulting mechanistic model for the kinesin monomer can be used to explain key aspects of ‘gating’ between heads of a stepping kinesin dimer and provides a paradigm for future study of other motor proteins such as dynein and myosin , where atomic structures of the motor-filament complex have not yet been determined . In order to clarify the mechanism of kinesin's microtubule-attached cycle , we solved high-resolution cryo-EM reconstructions of the human monomeric kinesin motor domain  attached to the microtubule in two different chemical states  , representing the motor before and after ATP binding ( no-nucleotide and in the presence of ADP•aluminum fluoride  ) . Features in the kinesin region of the map , however , appear to be limited to ∼6 Å resolution , probably due to distortions of the helical lattice that could not be corrected by our image-processing algorithms . Even after this filtering , both of our cryo-EM maps resolved all beta sheets , alpha helices , and many loops in both kinesin and tubulin as discrete entities . In particular , the paths of the motor's three principal microtubule-binding loops  were directly resolved  , which substantially aided further analysis . Clamshell-like closure of kinesin's nucleotide cleft triggered by ATP binding on microtubules , as revealed by cryo-EM density maps of no-nucleotide kinesin  and the ADP•Al•Fx state  . Nucleotide cleft closure is coupled , via rotation of the N-terminal subdomain , to opening of a ‘docking cleft’ on the opposite side of the motor domain and accompanying docking of the neck linker  ,  ,  ,  two different slices of density perpendicular to the microtubule axis , detailing the N-terminal and upper domains  . Microtubule contacts are denoted by colored arrowheads . ,  Side view of motor domain facing the nucleotide active site . , Backbone RMSD values as a function of time , measured separately for tubulin and kinesin against the starting model , for MDFF simulations of the no-nucleotide and ATP states of kinesin  . , Backbone RMSD values in follow-up simulations starting with the selected structures in  and  , respectively , where the cryo-EM potential was turned off but the coordinates of tubulin were restrained in the ‘straight’ conformation  . Improved interactions at the kinesin-tubulin interface following initial equilibration of the 4HNA starting model  . Overview of the kinesin-microtubule complex , highlighting the region selected for the close-ups in panels  –  . Four charged residues from kinesin's microtubule binding regions are labeled . In both the no-nucleotide and ATP simulations  , these residues stably interact with complementary charge partners in tubulin and/or adjacent residues of kinesin . Mobility of loop L9  increases in simulations of unrestrained , no-nucleotide kinesin bound to microtubules , compared with simulations of the ATP state . These loop motions account for differences in cryo-EM density features for this loop seen in Figure 2C , F . These simulations were restarted from the endpoint of the corresponding MDFF simulations , but with the cryo-EM energy term turned off  . The kinesin structure in these simulations exhibits substantially larger conformational fluctuations when compared to the MDFF simulations  , indicating that addition of the cryo-EM energy term substantially restricts breathing movements that ordinarily occur at the simulated temperature  . Four representative conformations in the trajectory of unrestrained no-nucleotide kinesin , revealing that loop L9 can flap away from the nucleotide pocket when the gamma phosphate is absent . Four representative conformations from the ATP-bound kinesin trajectory , reflecting the fact that L9 is stably engaged with the gamma-phosphate and is unable to fluctuate greatly . 008 Comparison of our no-nucleotide and ATP-state maps reveals that binding of the ATP analog causes an articulated conformational change in the kinesin domain that involves the concerted motion of three relatively well-defined subdomains  . Two of these subdomains result from dividing the central beta sheet at the junction between the beta strands anchoring the P-loop and the switch II loop  . The third subdomain , sometimes called the switch II cluster , contains kinesin's principle microtubule interaction elements including the switch II helix and C-terminally adjacent loop L12  . Consistent with earlier cryo-EM observations  , the lower subdomain remains largely fixed on the microtubule surface in our maps  . Correspondingly , in the ATP analog state , we observed density consistent with a docked conformation of the neck linker , extending towards the microtubule plus end  , while in the no-nucleotide state the neck linker was evidently disordered  , consistent with previous observations  . Thus , seesaw movement by the N-terminal subdomain couples ATP binding to docking of the neck linker , in agreement with the conclusions of several previous cryo-EM studies that visualized nucleotide-induced transitions of kinesin at lower resolution  . In contrast to previous analyses of these structural states of kinesin , however , our data reveal that the seesaw movement identified for the N-terminal subdomain does not extend to the other half of the beta sheet  . Rigid-body fitting experiments using fragments of kinesin X-ray structures indicate that the upper subdomain rotates by much less  than the N-terminal subdomain  . Related to this observation , we discovered a striking resemblance in the conformation of the switch II loop before and after binding of the ATP analog  . Both of our maps exhibit a contact between the switch II loop and switch II helix , coinciding with a pair of hydrogen bonds formed between the backbone of E236 and the side chain of N255  in X-ray structures of kinesin's ATP analog-bound state   . Proximal to this contact , our maps resolve another contact between the switch II helix and the microtubule surface , corresponding to a hydrogen bond between N255 and M413 of alpha tubulin in the kinesin–tubulin co-complex structure  . Thus , our maps indicate that the upper and lower domains are pinned down against the microtubule surface by a three-way interaction between the switch II loop , the switch II helix and alpha tubulin during the ATP binding transition . The effect of nucleotide state and microtubule attachment on kinesin’s ‘nucleotide’ and ‘polymer’ clefts . Density features that define the nucleotide cleft , corresponding to the switch II loop and the P-loop , are indicated by ‘SwII’ and ‘P’  in panel A . Hollow and solid wedges denote open and closed states  of the nucleotide and polymer clefts . Panels A–B show isosurface renderings our cryo-EM maps , while panels C–D show synthetic density maps generated from X-ray structures of our identical kinesin construct in its ADP-bound state , filtered to a similar resolution  as the experimental maps in panels A–B . Figure 3—figure supplemental 1 shows the corresponding features for synthetic 6 Å-resolution maps generated from our atomic models , as well as for two additional ADP-bound crystal structures of kinesin . Visualizing nucleotide and polymer clefts in synthetically rendered maps of kinesin at 6 Å resolution . 010 A striking difference between our cryo-EM maps , however , is a distinct upward displacement of the P-loop away from the switch II loop in our no-nucleotide map . This movement appears to be a direct consequence of the 22° rotation made by the N-terminal subdomain , to which the P-loop is anchored; the rotation translates the P-loop site ∼4 Å away from the microtubule surface . Consistent with this interpretation , while the P-loop forms a visible contact with the switch II loop in our ATP analog map  , a gap appears between these elements in the no-nucleotide map  . In contrast , the P-loop and switch II loop maintain very close contact in ADP-bound X-ray structures of kinesin  . At the same time , however , the switch II loop fails to make close contact with the switch II helix in the ADP-bound X-ray structures  . Thus , kinesin's tightly microtubule-attached states  are distinguished from the weakly attaching , ADP-bound states  by the presence of a gap between the switch II helix and the switch II loop; correspondingly , we will refer to this feature as the ‘polymer cleft’ . Similarly , the presence of a gap between the P-loop and the switch II loop correlates with the absence of bound nucleotide; we will therefore refer to this latter feature as the ‘nucleotide cleft’ . In the microtubule-attached states captured by our cryo-EM maps , the closed polymer cleft holds the upper and lower subdomains together while ATP binding initiates a clamshell-like action between the N-terminal domain and upper/lower subdomain assembly to close the nucleotide cleft . We used the MDFF package  to develop an atomic model for our ATP analog map , starting with the crystal structure of the same chemical state of the same kinesin construct co-complexed with a tubulin dimer  . In the resulting structure model , the principle conformational change observed is a straightening of the tubulin subunits from the conformation seen in 4HNA in order to accommodate the microtubule lattice  . Despite this change in tubulin , the conformation of kinesin is well conserved  . Some differences with the 4HNA structure are evident at the kinesin-microtubule interface of our simulations  , but these involve non-conserved side chains that re-orient to form more favorable contacts during the equilibration phase of the simulation  . The MDFF calculation thus indicates that the conformation of kinesin visualized in the 4HNA structure is largely conserved when tubulin is incorporated into the microtubule lattice . Animation depicting the conformational transition observed in our MDFF simulation of the ATP bound kinesin–microtubule complex . The video runs from the beginning of the MDFF simulation up to t = 1 . 011 We repeated the above MDFF procedure to obtain a structure model for the no-nucleotide cryo-EM map . In effect , this simulation protocol is designed to reverse the isomerization induced by ATP binding in microtubule-attached kinesin , yielding a detailed prediction for the conformation of kinesin in the absence of nucleotide  . Animation depicting our MDFF simulation for no-nucleotide kinesin , up to t = 1 . Remarkably , the switch loops remain ‘closed’ in an identical hydrogen-bonding network in our structural models for both nucleotide states . Atomic models capturing open and closed states of kinesin's nucleotide and polymer clefts for principle structural intermediates in the kinesin cycle . No-nucleotide and ATP-bound models of the kinesin-microtubule complex  are depicted in panels A , D , G and B , E , H  . A pair of X-ray crystal structures of the ADP-bound kinesin K349 construct  are superposed in C , F and I . Panels G–I show rotated views of the structures , presenting the view from the microtubule interior looking outward at the kinesin interface . Hollow and solid wedges denote open and closed states  of the nucleotide cleft and the polymer cleft , while the star in panels F and I indicates the site of predicted steric clashes between the switch II helix and alpha tubulin . For comparison , views of the active sites of the F1-ATPase and myosin motors in no-nucleotide and ATP analog-bound states , corresponding to panels A and B , are shown in Figure 4—figure supplement 1 . Nucleotide cleft closure induced by ATP analogs in the myosin and F1-ATPase motor proteins  . Changes in the hydrogen-bonding pattern between P-loop and switch II residues between in these motors closely match the changes predicted by our molecular dynamics models of kinesin's no-nucleotide and ATP states . Both of these other motors also undergo substantial distortions in the supporting beta-sheet conformation that accompany the P-loop movement . Active site of the subunit of bovine mitochondrial F1-ATPase in no-nucleotide and ADP•Al•Fx states , respectively , from a crystal structure of the inhibited  3-γ co-complex  c-d . Active site of the myosin V motor domain from X-ray structures solved in the absence and presence of ADP•Al•Bex  . 014 While switch loops are thus stably maintained in a closed arrangement in these structure models , we observed a functionally significant rearrangement of the P-loop that accompanies opening of the nucleotide cleft , for the nucleotide-free model . As the P-loop pulls away from the switch loops , a bifurcated hydrogen bond breaks up between T92 at the base of the P-loop and S202/D231 in switches I and II  . A second residue in the P-loop affected by its translation away from the switch loops is K91 , which normally coordinates the nucleotide alpha- and beta-phosphate groups . In doing so , K91 loses its ability to coordinate the nucleotide alpha- and beta-phosphates . The resulting side chain configuration within the active site of our nucleotide-free kinesin model is strikingly similar to what is seen in X-ray structures of nucleotide-free F1-ATPase and myosin motors , which possess homologous active-site architectures  . Thus , opening of the nucleotide cleft in our no-nucleotide model specifically disrupts the coordination of both nucleotide phosphate and magnesium within the P-loop . Alternative depiction of the transition presented in Video 2 , detailing the side chains and hydrogen bonds that compose the closed switch loop network  , as well as residues P-loop residues K91 , T92 , and their interacting partner D231 from the switch II loop  . 015 In order to identify the basis for microtubule-affinity regulation of kinesin by ADP and vice versa , we compared our structures of microtubule-attached kinesin with two X-ray structures  of the same construct in an ADP-bound , weakly attaching state  . The relative arrangements of the upper and lower domains in the 1BG2 and 1MKJ structures , corresponding to undocked and docked states of the neck linker , closely align with our no-nucleotide and ATP state kinesin models  . We discovered , however , that both the 1BG2 and 1MKJ structures are prohibited from assuming favorable binding orientations on the microtubule surface due to the conformation of residue N255 . As illustrated in Figure 4D–F , the N-terminal coils of the switch II helix are unwound in both ADP-bound structures . Thus , the 1BG2 and 1MKJ conformations appear incapable of strong microtubule attachment , consistent with the weak experimentally observed microtubule affinity of kinesin's ADP state  . Further comparison of our structure models to other atomic structures of ADP-bound kinesin  consistently demonstrates a clash between alpha tubulin and residue N255  , for the ADP-state structures . While ADP-state crystal structures of kinesin are largely similar in their active-site features to the 1BG2 and 1MKJ structures , some of these exhibit an alpha-helical conformation for N255 and adjacent residues that N-terminally extends the switch II helix . However , as illustrated in Figure 5B , when these latter conformations of kinesin are placed in a tight-binding orientation on the microtubule  , the N-terminus of the switch II helix projects downward into the microtubule surface , introducing a clash between N255 and the H11-H12 loop of alpha tubulin . A recently solved ‘near-rigor’ conformation of the KIF14 motor   , found in a state that binds ADP but not magnesium , partially repairs the clash in Figure 5B by re-orienting the switch II helix to nearly the identical position  as seen in our no-nucleotide model  . However , the side chain of N662 in the 4OZQ structure  projects downward toward the microtubule surface , introducing a steric clash with alpha tubulin . Putative intermediate states that lead to opening of kinesin’s nucleotide cleft , accompanied by ADP release , upon microtubule attachment . X-ray structure of Mg•ADP-bound K349 kinesin  . X-ray structure of Mg•ADP-bound KIF1A kinesin  . X-ray structure of ‘near rigor’ , ADP-bound KIF14 kinesin   No-nucleotide kinesin-microtubule complex  . Structures in panels A–C are aligned with the no-nucleotide K349 model in panel D by strand b7 of the central beta sheet , which connects to the switch II loop; this alignment approximately maintains the orientation of the upper subdomain , thus preserving a contact between L8 within this subdomain and alpha tubulin  . 016 Further comparison of the 4OZQ structure to our no-nucleotide model  reveals that , while the overall arrangement of the N-terminal , upper , and lower subdomains is nearly identical , reorientation of N255 in the no-nucleotide structure is accompanied by striking shift of the switch II loop toward this residue and away from the P-loop . This shift opens the nucleotide cleft and closes the polymer cleft  and allows the switch II loop to assume its closed conformation that simultaneously interacts with N255 as well as R203 from switch I . The conformation of the N255 side chain that accompanies closure of the switch II loop is highly constrained by a pair of hydrogen bonds to the backbone of E236 , aligning N255 in order to interact with M413 of alpha tubulin  . Thus , closure of the polymer cleft in our no-nucleotide model appears to be closely linked to favorable microtubule interactions by N255 . Conversely , as indicated in Figure 4F , I and Figure 5A–C , the open arrangement of the polymer cleft in kinesin's ADP states is evidently inconsistent with tight microtubule attachment , owing to steric interference of N255 and neighboring residues . Previously , it has been speculated that release of nucleotide in kinesin may be linked to twisting of the central beta sheet  . In contrast to this expectation , however , we discovered that the degree of end-to-end twisting in both our no-nucleotide model as well as the previously reported ‘rigor-like’ ADP complex of KIF14 falls within the range observed in other X-ray structures of ADP-bound kinesin  . However , we identified another mode of distortion in our kinesin models , analogous to the action of an archery bow  , that would couple strong nucleotide binding to elastic strain in the peptide backbone . In the conformation , we identify as ‘relaxed’ , corresponding to the no-nucleotide state , the P-loop withdraws from the switch II loop to open the nucleotide cleft . In order for the P-loop to move back toward switch II and close the nucleotide cleft , the N-terminus of alpha 2  must move with it . Comparison of beta-sheet twist in our no-nucleotide model  and five representative X-ray structures of ADP-bound kinesin  . Structures in this and all subsequent videos are aligned by residues 226–231 of our kinesin model , as in Figure 6A . The video cycles sequentially through the ADP structures in order of increasing twist: frame 1 , ADP-bound K349  ; frame 2 , ADP-bound KIF1A  ; frame 3 , ADP-bound K349  ; frame 4 , ADP-bound KAR3  ; frame 5 , ADP-bound Eg5  . Similar to Video 4 , but substituting our no-nucleotide model with the X-ray structure of ‘rigor-like’ kinesin , in green  . Morphing animation illustrating minimal beta-sheet distortion in a comparison of ADP-bound structures of KIF1A  and ‘rigor-like’ KIF14  . The starting structure is that of KIF14 . Evidence that nucleotide binding introduces internal strain in kinesin's central beta sheet and helix alpha 2 , mediated by interactions between the P-loop and the switch II loop . Similar comparisons of additional structural states of kinesin are shown in Figure 6—figure supplement 1 and Videos 4–8 . Flexing of the beta sheet coupled with motion of alpha 2 in comparisons of no-nucleotide and ATP-bound conformations of microtubule-attached kinesin  . Structures are aligned by central region of the beta strand adjoining the switch II loop  . Comparison of no-nucleotide and ADP-bound  structures of kinesin , aligned as in panel A . Comparison of no-nucleotide  , ADP-bound  , and ATP-bound  states of the K349 kinesin construct aligned by their P-loops , revealing nucleotide-dependent flexing of helix alpha 2 . Relationship between nucleotide state and strain in the polypeptide backbone for a diverse array of kinesin X-ray structures . ,  Comparison between our no-nucleotide K349 structure and a ‘rigor-like’  conformation of KIF14  . Comparison of the orientation of helix α2 relative to the P-loop , for various crystalized states of kinesin . All alignments in these panels are performed relative to the backbone atoms of residues 85–92  in our no-nucleotide structure ( shown in  ) . In  , five representative structures of ADP•Mg-complexed kinesin are superposed  ; in  , our ATP state model is depicted along with the three currently available X-ray structures of kinesin in which the switch loops are fully closed   . 022Video 7 . Comparison of backbone distortions in the central beta sheet and α2 for our no-nucleotide and ATP-bound models of K349 kinesin , illustrated by a morphing animation . 023Video 8 . Similar to Video 7 , but substituting the X-ray structure of ADP-bound kinesin  for the ATP-bound model . 023 Comparison of kinesin's active site in various nucleotide states indicates that there are two ways to keep the nucleotide cleft closed , depending on the conformation of the switch loops . If the switch loops are open , corresponding to kinesin's detached ADP states , the switch II loop and the P-loop can interact closely with each other , which would secure the closed conformation of the nucleotide cleft  . Alternatively , when the switch loops are closed , closure of the nucleotide cleft is mainly supported by the gamma phosphate group of ATP itself , which introduces a bridge between the P-loop and the switch II loop that would hold these elements together  . In this way , our structure models indicate that tight ADP binding would be an inherent property of detached kinesin , where the switch loops are free to adopt an open conformation . However , closure of the switch loops  eliminates the ability of switch II to latch onto the P-loop , which would thus allow the nucleotide cleft to relax into its open conformation unless gamma phosphate is present . The preceding analysis has indicated that residue N255 in kinesin plays a key role in the motor's microtubule response pathway . In effect , this site appears to act as a ‘linchpin’ that links closure of kinesin's switch loops to interactions at a single site on alpha tubulin  . A lysine point mutation at the N255 site was previously shown to eliminate coupling between microtubule attachment and motor nucleotide state , allowing kinesin to bind tightly to the microtubule in all nucleotide states  . Moreover , the microtubule-stimulated ADP release rate for this point mutant is severely attenuated , falling to only slightly above the basal level   . Based on the structure models presented here , we hypothesized that the N255K mutation uncouples nucleotide- and microtubule-binding functions in kinesin by compromising the ability of this residue to bridge between alpha tubulin and the backbone of E236  , so eliminating communication between the microtubule and the switch loops . N255K uncoupling mutation compromises the microtubule interface , with accompanying orientational disorder of the motor domain . ,  Microtubule-stimulated ADP release kinetics measurements for the N255K mutant of our K349 construct . Shown in  are individual time traces , while  plots the fitted rate constants as a function of microtubule concentration . The extrapolated maximum rate for microtubule-stimulated ADP release was kmax = 0 . 04 s−1 , with an apparent microtubule dissociation constant of K0 . Cryo-EM reconstructions of microtubules decorated with wild-type K349  and the N255K mutant . For the wild-type structure in  , the ADP state was selected for viewing purposes but all nucleotide states have similar features at this resolution . Maps from reconstructions of 14-protofilament microtubules are shown; features in the corresponding 13-protofilament reconstructions were very similar  . Analysis of cryo-EM images of N255K kinesin complexed with microtubules  . Compressed alignments  of representative single microtubules under various decoration conditions . A summation of the power spectra for every selected microtubule of the corresponding condition is shown to the right of each compressed microtubule image . For comparison , analysis of an undecorated microtubule data set is shown in  . Visible density for kinesin in these summations  indicates that the N255K construct decorates microtubules with similar efficiency as the wild-type construct , despite weaker 80 Å diffraction by the mutant . This observation was supported by the ability of the N255K mutant to co-sediment with microtubules even in the ADP condition  . Image of a microtubule decorated by the N255K construct  . While obviously decorated , the microtubule has a shaggy appearance uncharacteristic of decoration by wild-type kinesin . Example of a morphologically disrupted microtubule , frequently seen in cryo-EM specimens of microtubules decorated by the N255K construct . The disrupted microtubules were excluded from data sets used for image processing and 3D reconstruction . 025 Cryo-EM analysis of the ADP and ATP analog-bound states of the N255K point mutant of our construct support this hypothesis , revealing two previously unidentified binding modes of kinesin in which the motor domain attaches tightly to the microtubule but is rotationally mobile  . The corresponding 3D maps did not refine to high resolution , presumably due to mobility of the kinesin heads . In the ADP-state map , the microtubule contact at site 255 appears to be attenuated or disordered  , while in the AMPPNP map the wild-type microtubule contact of loop L12 is absent but a contact is evident at the 255 site  . Thus , in neither nucleotide state is the N255K construct able to form all three wild-type microtubule contacts . These results indicate that the specific bridging role of N255 between the switch II loop and N413 of alpha tubulin  , which likely cannot be sustained by the N255K mutation , is not required for tight microtubule attachment . On the other hand , the N255K mutant appears to be incapable of maintaining a fixed orientation on the microtubule surface . We therefore propose that N255 acts as a conformational specificity selector , forcing the switch loops to close once kinesin contacts the microtubule . Presumably , flexibility in the resulting contact allows the N255K mutant to maintain affinity for microtubules even when the switch loops are open . However , failure of this mutant to close the switch loops under these conditions would lead to the loss of microtubule-stimulated ADP release and catalysis , consistent with experimental measurements . It has increasingly been proposed that kinesin may harness the energy of twisting in its central beta sheet in some fashion during the ATPase cycle  . Speculations in this regard have mainly focused on the possibility , by analogy to myosin , that release of nucleotide initiates a much larger end-to-end twist in the sheet than is observed in comparisons of nucleotide-bound X-ray structures of the motor  . However , it has remained unclear how such twisting would relate to the complex interplay of affinities between kinesin and microtubules , ADP and ATP . The structure models derived in the current study indicate that in kinesin , the energy of nucleotide binding is captured by a related but distinct mode of distortion in the peptide backbone , involving coordinated rearrangements of the beta sheet and alpha 2  . As we have shown , this distortion is coupled with closure of the nucleotide cleft and can evidently be stabilized either by interactions between the P-loop and the open switch II loop  , or between the gamma phosphate and the closed switch loops  . This mechanism would thus allow microtubules to regulate kinesin's affinities for ADP and ATP by modulating the conformation of the switch loops , yielding an elegant structural basis for kinesin's nucleotide-binding behavior on and off microtubules . A number of sites in the kinesin fold have been identified that uncouple the motor's nucleotide affinity from its microtubule affinity , but the structural basis of the uncoupling has remained unclear . The nucleotide-exchange mechanism proposed here predicts that the uncoupling mutations in the kinesin's switch regions would have differential effects on the kinetics of ADP release , depending on the nature of the affected site . For example , due to its apparent role in stabilizing the nucleotide cleft in the detached motor  , perturbation of the E236 site would be expected to produce a comparatively large effect in kinesin's detached state , by destabilizing closure of the nucleotide cleft and increasing the ADP off rate . In contrast , mutation at the N255 site is not expected to produce a large effect in the detached motor but is expected to drastically attenuate microtubule-stimulated ADP release by compromising the ‘linchpin’ function of this residue . Both of these predictions are supported by kinetics measurements reported here and elsewhere , which reveal that the N255K mutation reduces the rate of microtubule-stimulated ADP release by up to 1000-fold , to near basal levels   , while the E236A mutation increases the ADP off-rate of detached kinesin by 100-fold  but does not significantly alter the rate of microtubule-stimulated ADP release . X-ray studies of the corresponding point mutants in KAR3 kinesin , co-complexed with ADP and magnesium , also support our interpretation . The scheme in Figure 8 also provides a framework for understanding how gating can be achieved between the motor domains of dimeric kinesin  . When both heads are attached to the microtubule in their tight-binding states , the neck linker of the trailing head is constrained in an arrangement that favors docking , thus tending to keep the docking cleft open  . Thus , in the trailing head , tight coupling between the docking cleft and the nucleotide cleft  keeps the nucleotide cleft closed . Meanwhile , the same coupling pathway keeps the nucleotide cleft open in the leading head—weakening the nucleotide affinity and thus disfavoring the binding and/or hydrolysis of ATP . The resulting ADP state of the trailing head thus favors tight nucleotide binding and weak microtubule affinity-promoting detachment from  the trailing microtubule site  . Other structural schemes have been proposed in order to account for differences in nucleotide-binding and other properties between the leading and trailing heads of kinesin  . In such schemes the conformation of the neck linker was mainly thought to affect the nucleotide affinity by triggering rearrangement of the switch loops . However , our structural data do not support this type of mechanism , instead indicating that the switch loops are held in a closed conformation by the microtubule in both leading and trailing heads providing the basis for the gating scheme in Figure 8C . The mechanism inferred here for kinesin reveals new parallels with the myosin molecular motor , which appears to be ancestrally related to kinesin  and shares very similar nucleotide-sensing ‘switch’ motifs  . This proposal mirrors the sequence of events we infer for kinesin , where the magnitude of the peptide backbone distortion appears to be greatest in the ATP state , less for the ADP states , and least of all for the no-nucleotide conformation  . A recent modeling study has also suggested that interactions with actin could lock myosin's switch I and switch II loops stably together while the P-loop moves with respect to them during the filament-attached power stroke  ; this behavior would be directly analogous to the behavior of microtubule-attached kinesin in the currently proposed scheme . An important functional difference between myosin and kinesin , however , is that these motors attach and detach from their partner filaments at different points in the ATPase cycle . In this light , it is worth noting that the ‘linchpin’ N255 residue in kinesin is conserved in myosin , but interacts natively with a conserved tyrosine found within the lower 50kD domain of myosin itself , rather than interacting with the filament as occurs with kinesin . Consequently , in myosin this asparagine holds the switch II loop near its ‘closed’ conformation even in the absence of actin , which could help explain why myosin , unlike kinesin , shows strong catalytic activity even in the absence of its partner filament  . We anticipate that future studies of both kinesin and myosin will shed more light on the relationship between these intriguing molecular machines . Concurrently with the current work , an X-ray crystal structure of no-nucleotide kinesin in complex with a non-polymerized tubulin dimer has been published  . The structure of no-nucleotide kinesin reported in the X-ray study is in excellent agreement with model presented here  . Accordingly , the detailed interactions of kinesin and tubulin seen in the X-ray structure appear to be fully consistent with the models and mechanism presented in the current work . The motor–microtubule complex was resuspended in ∼10 µl of EM buffer plus 200 µM taxol . Kinetics of the interaction of mant-ADP with kinesin was measured by equilibrating a kinesin·mant-ADP  complex followed by rapid mixing with a high concentration of MgATP or varying MT concentrations plus MgATP to chase the mant-ADP from the active site as described  . In order to optimize motor decoration on the microtubules , glow discharge was not applied to the grids and samples were diluted ∼5–10× into distilled water ( 0 . For the ADP , AMPPNP , and ADP•Al•Fx conditions , the grid droplet mixture was supplemented by 2 mM nucleotide  . Consistent with our prior experience  , failure to dilute the sample buffer ∼5–10× prior to plunge freezing led to poor and/or inconsistent kinesin decoration of the microtubules . For bare microtubules , and microtubules decorated by the N255K construct , micrographs were collected using a TF-20 FEG-equipped instrument and a Gatan US4000 CCD detector . Initial reference models were generated by applying a parametric model of the microtubule  to PDB models of the no-nucleotide kinesin-microtubule complex  , converting the atomic coordinates to EM density using the SPIDER package  , and applying a low-pass filter with a 20 Å cutoff frequency . Multi-reference analysis performed using a range of different microtubule assemblies  established that 14-protofilament microtubules outnumbered 13-protofilament by approximately 3:1 , with only marginal populations of other symmetry forms . Reference alignment was used to determine the position of the microtubule seam on a per-microtubule basis as described  , as was the filament polarity , and then every segment was subjected to local refinement using the established seam orientation and polarity . In order to derive an atomic model for the microtubule complex of ATP-bound kinesin , we subjected the coordinates of tubulin and kinesin from the 4HNA structure to a hybrid all-atom molecular dynamics method  in which cryo-EM density contributes a force field term  designed to guide the simulation toward the experimentally observed structure  . While this omission likely produced artifacts near the boundaries between the simulated tubulin heterodimer and neighboring tubulin subunits , these boundaries are remote from the motor–microtubule interface . Moreover , the EM steering potential used in these simulations conformation strongly clamps the conformation of tubulin . Thus , our simulation setup is expected to minimize or eliminate the propagation of any boundary artifacts toward kinesin and its interface with tubulin , which is the focus of the current study . To complete the starting model , twenty water molecules were manually placed within the kinesin nucleotide pocket at sites corresponding to crystallographic waters identified in a high-resolution  X-ray structure of KIF4 kinesin co-complexed with AMPPNP  . Importantly , we limited the influence of the EM steering potential to include only protein backbone atoms and nucleotide ligands . This initial transition is followed by a gradual increase in the reported backbone RMSD values in both kinesin and tubulin that continues to the end of the simulation  . Inspection of the simulation trajectory reveals that the initial transition mainly consists of a straightening of the tubulin subunits from the conformation seen in 4HNA in order to accommodate the microtubule lattice . In contrast to tubulin , the conformation of kinesin is largely unaffected during the first 2 ns of the MDFF simulation , and the backbone RMSD values  remain at approximately 1 . A prominent example is loop L9 from kinesin , which encloses the nucleotide pocket and includes the switch I motif . In the starting model , a network of hydrogen bonds supports the structure of this loop; however , by the end of the simulation many of these interactions are lost as the loop is increasingly ‘squeezed’ into the corresponding density feature  . We also note that the conformation of kinesin's N-terminal segment  , termed the neck cover strand  , is unstable even in early time points of the MDFF simulation , possibly due to weak density for both this element as well as the neck linker in the cryo-EM map . In order to minimize the presence of over-fitting artifacts in our final structure model , we selected an early time point  that immediately follows the initial transition , in order to represent the ATP-bound kinesin-microtubule complex  . The stability of the resulting structure model was investigated using a follow-up simulation in which the EM steering potential was turned off but the conformation of tubulin was subjected to harmonic positional restraints  in order to maintain the straight conformation of tubulin found in the microtubule lattice . Only residues 1–380 of alpha and beta tubulin were included in the restraint potential , thus excluding the kinesin-binding regions  . As shown in Figure 2—figure supplement 1D , the conformation of kinesin was relatively stable over the course of the 2 ns time period investigated , maintaining a backbone RMSD of ∼1 Å from the starting structure . Signature hydrogen-bond interactions of the closed switch loop network  were maintained throughout this simulation , with the notable exception of the conserved salt bridge between R203 and E236 , conserved in all X-ray structures where the switch loops are closed , which dissociated partway through the simulation  . In order to obtain an atomic model for kinesin's no-nucleotide state on microtubules , we repeated the above simulation protocol but replaced the target function with one derived from the no-nucleotide cryo-EM map . The backbone RMSD values for kinesin , however , were much greater in the no-nucleotide trajectory , reflecting a significant conformational rearrangement . As described in the main text  , the primary structural changes in kinesin were twisting of the N-terminal , upper , and lower subdomains with respect to each other , followed by separation of the P-loop from the switch II loop and attendant reorientation of the K91 side chain . The subdomain twisting movement was completed somewhat before the P-loop fully separated from the switch II loop , resulting in elongation of the P-loop as well as distortion of the closed switch loop network prior to the separation . Similar to the behavior of tubulin in our simulations of both nucleotide states , the kinesin transition was largely complete by 1 ns , as reflected by the backbone RMSD from the starting structure  as well as the observed interactions in the atomic model itself  . As with the ATP-state model , we therefore sought to avoid overfitting artifacts by selecting a trajectory frame immediately following the rapid transition  to represent the conformation of no-nucleotide , microtubule-complexed kinesin found in our maps . In this region , a substantial reduction in the average density of the no-nucleotide cryo-EM map indicates the presence of disorder . We used the selected model from our no-nucleotide MDFF simulation to perform a 2 ns follow-up simulation where the EM steering potential was eliminated and the tubulin coordinates harmonically constrained , mirroring the protocol used for the ATP-state  . However , in this follow-up simulation kinesin exhibited substantially more flexibility  compared with the corresponding ATP-state trajectory  . This effect could be a consequence of the open conformation of the nucleotide cleft , and loss of attendant interactions between the switch II and the P-loop , seen in the no-nucleotide state structure . Cryo-EM maps and coordinates for no-nucleotide and ADP•Al•Fx states of the kinesin-microtubule have been deposited in the EMDB  and PDB  . 
However , quality control  pathways for misfolded mitochondrial proteins remain poorly defined . Here , we establish temperature-sensitive  peripheral mitochondrial outer membrane  proteins as novel model QC substrates in Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The ts- proteins sen2-1HAts and sam35-2HAts are degraded from the MOM by the ubiquitin-proteasome system . Ubiquitination of sen2-1HAts is mediated by the ubiquitin ligase  Ubr1 , while sam35-2HAts is ubiquitinated primarily by San1 . In addition to a role for the Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 AAA-ATPase complex , Doa1 and a mitochondrial pool of the transmembrane Cdc48 adaptor , Ubx2 , are implicated in their degradation . This study reveals a unique QC pathway comprised of a combination of cytosolic and mitochondrial factors that distinguish it from other cellular QC pathways . The most extensively studied organelle-based QC pathway is ER-associated degradation  . In contrast to mitophagy , mitochondria-associated degradation  pathways for individual misfolded or damaged mitochondrial proteins are not as well-established in mammals or yeast . In fact , the UPS is known to play a critical role in mitochondrial morphology , dynamics , inheritance , and in the degradation of import-deficient mitochondrial IMS proteins and mitochondria-mislocalized tail-anchored proteins  . All of these are native  proteins , whose ubiquitination and/or degradation may be critical for homeostasis and not obviously related to QC . However , for the few other MOM proteins where ubiquitination has been analyzed , the E3 Rsp5 has been implicated  . The degradation of tail-anchored proteins mislocalized to the MOM uniquely requires the AAA-ATPase Msp1 for extraction from the MOM prior to transfer to the ER where they are degraded by ERAD machinery  . Thus , a universal MAD pathway for MOM proteins has not been described and many steps in substrate degradation remain unexamined . Similarly , UPS components acting on misfolded MOM proteins have yet to be investigated . In this study , we establish temperature-sensitive  peripheral MOM proteins  as QC substrates . The proteasomal degradation of these MAD QC substrates occurs at the MOM and requires specific cytosolic and mitochondrial UPS components , most of which are conserved in higher eukaryotes . To elucidate how misfolded mitochondrial proteins are targeted for destruction , we exploited two previously-identified yeast ts- alleles , sam35-2 and sen2-1  , whose degradation has not been assessed . Sam35 and Sen2 are essential MOM proteins . Sam35 is the substrate receptor of the MOM-embedded multiprotein sorting and assembly machinery  complex required for assembly of β-barrel proteins into the MOM  . Although Sam35 contains no apparent membrane spans , it is tightly embedded at the MOM via the Sam50 protein  . We first determined that sam35-2ts and sen2-1ts encoded full-length proteins . To facilitate detection , sequence encoding an HA tag was added to the C-terminus of each to generate sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts . Genome-integrated versions of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts support cell viability at the permissive  but not non-permissive temperature  , consistent with the previously-described untagged versions  . To determine whether their ts- phenotypes are indicative of protein misfolding that may lead to instability , we assessed sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts turnover by cycloheximide  chase when expressed from centromeric  yeast plasmids . Co-expression of sam35-2GFPts and sen2-1GFPts with a mitochondrial marker  demonstrated that the ts- proteins remain mitochondrial after the temperature increase  . To bypass difficulties associated with imaging these low abundance ts- proteins , we isolated mitochondria by subcellular fractionation and assessed the localization of destabilized sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts . Consistent with our microscopy , sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts fractionated almost exclusively to the mitochondrial pellet at 37°C  . Therefore , sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts are destabilized at the non-permissive temperature yet remain mitochondrially-localized , validating their use as model MAD QC substrates . Since proteasomes have broad roles in mitochondrial homeostasis and morphology , we assessed whether the degradation of these MOM ts- proteins was dependent on proteasome function . The turnover of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts was assessed at the non-permissive temperature in strains containing conditional mutations in the 20S core  or the 19S cap  of the 26S proteasome . In contrast , vacuolar or mitochondrial resident proteases were not required for sam35-2HAts or sen2-1HAts turnover  . After establishing that the stabilization of the ts- proteins in pre1-1 pre2-2 spheroplasts mirrors that observed in intact cells  , we assessed whether sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts remain mitochondrial when proteasome function is impaired . Even after 40 min at the non-permissive temperature , the majority of both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts accumulated in the 12 , 000xg mitochondrial pellet  . On the other hand , this purified mitochondrial fraction retains ~70% of the ts- proteins . Thus , these data indicate that sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts primarily accumulate at the mitochondria when their proteasomal degradation is blocked . Consistent with being UPS substrates , stabilization of both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts was observed in a ts- mutant of the ubiquitin-activating enzyme  , indicating that ubiquitination is required for their degradation . Moreover , ubiquitin-modified forms of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts were evident when proteasome function was inhibited  , as indicated by characteristic higher molecular weight bands and a smear representing highly ubiquitinated species  . By comparison , ubiquitinated forms of WT SAM35HA and SEN2HA are much less prevalent  . Ubiquitinated sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts both accumulated largely in the mitochondrial pellet fraction  and to a lesser extent in the soluble fraction , correlating with the relative distributions of unmodified species . Taken together , these data establish roles for ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation in the turnover of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts at the MOM . To date , the only ubiquitin ligases known to act on mitochondrial proteins in yeast are SCFMdm30 and Rsp5  . However , the known mitochondrial substrates for these E3s are native proteins . We assessed whether these E3s also play a role in MAD of QC substrates and found that strains lacking either Mdm30 or Rsp5 function did not affect sam35-2HAts or sen2-1HAts stability  . Interestingly , we found that san1Δ impaired turnover of sam35-2HAts  , while ubr1Δ impaired turnover of sen2-1HAts  . San1 has been implicated in QC of cytosolic and nuclear proteins  . While ubr1Δ alone did not affect sam35-2HAts turnover  , loss of Ubr1 in conjunction with san1Δ led to greater stabilization than loss of San1 alone  , indicating that Ubr1 can target sam35-2HAts in the absence of San1 . Loss of San1 , alone or in conjunction with ubr1Δ , did not affect the stability of sen2-1HAts  . Notably , the polyubiquitination of sam35-2HAts  and sen2-1HAts  was greatly reduced when San1 or Ubr1 , respectively , were deleted . Likewise , loss of any single E2 did not stabilize sam35-2HAts  . Loss of Ubc4 , an E2 known to function with Ubr1 for select substrates , stabilized sen2-1HAts to a similar degree as ubr1Δ  . To confirm that Ubr1 and San1 can act on ts- proteins at the MOM , we examined the localization of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts by fractionation in san1Δ and ubr1Δ , respectively . These results establish that San1 and Ubr1 can function as components of the MAD machinery for proteasome-mediated degradation of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts , respectively . The cytosolic SSA family of Hsp70 chaperones  is broadly involved in protein folding and refolding , but also plays a role in the degradation of several San1 and Ubr1 QC substrates  . During protein QC , these chaperones appear to prevent protein aggregation and facilitate ubiquitination  . Interestingly , both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts were strongly stabilized in a conditional yeast strain where three SSA family members are deleted and the fourth  is ts-  relative to the control strain  . SSA Hsp70 chaperones can play a role in the sorting of mitochondrial proteins to and into mitochondria  . To rule out the possibility that the stabilization of mitochondrial ts- alleles in the ssa1-45ts strain is reflective of a defect in mitochondrial targeting , mitochondrial fractionation was performed . Both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts were localized to the pellet fraction  , where they were extractable by sodium carbonate  . Notably , the SSA1 chaperone was also required for ubiquitination: despite the accumulation of unmodified sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts , ubiquitin-modified forms are dramatically reduced when SSA1 is inactivated  . In contrast to the ts- proteins , degradation of the native MOM UPS substrate , Fzo1HA , was largely unaffected by loss SSA function  . Depletion of ~90% of Sis1 protein using Sis1 DAmP cells  slowed the turnover of both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  , while loss of Ydj1 or its ortholog , Hlj1 , did not  . We did not detect a role for Sse1 in the degradation of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  . Loss of other factors implicated in San1 and Ubr1 nuclear import-dependent QC , including Hsc82/Hsp82 , Sti1 , Hsp104 , and Dsk2 were also without effect on the degradation of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  . These results establish that the degradation of the mitochondrial QC substrates is dependent on both Hsp70 and Hsp40 chaperones , but independent of nuclear import . Cdc48 and its co-factors Npl4 and Ufd1 have been implicated in the UPS-mediated turnover of several yeast MOM proteins  . Both sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts were stabilized in conditional Cdc48 , Npl4 , and Ufd1 strains  . In contrast , loss of Msp1 , another AAA-ATPase that localizes to mitochondria and dislocates mislocalized tail-anchored proteins from the MOM  , stabilized neither sam35-2HAts nor sen2-1HAts  . For npl4-1 and ufd1-1 , however , both substrates remain primarily mitochondrial  . This indicates that in the absence of a functional Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 complex sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts largely retain their mitochondrial localization . Accordingly , we detected a relative increase in ubiquitinated sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts in Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 complex mutants  . Deletion of these or another proteasome shuttling factor , Ddi1 , did not affect the degradation of sam35-2HAts or sen2-1HAts  , further distinguishing MAD from ERAD . All together , these results indicate that ubiquitinated mitochondrial QC substrates require the Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 complex for efficient proteasomal degradation . Vms1 and Doa1 are two cytosolic Cdc48 co-factors implicated in mitochondrial homeostasis  , although their reported involvement in mitochondrial protein turnover , particularly with respect to Fzo1 , has been inconsistent  . Loss of Vms1 had no effect on the degradation of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  , while loss of Doa1 had a small , but significant effect  . Notably , only the loss of Ubx2 significantly stabilized sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  . We confirmed Ubx2’s role in degradation of the mitochondrial ts- proteins by complementation with FLAG-tagged Ubx2 in the ubx2Δ strain  . Furthermore , redundant functions for Ubx2 and Doa1 were ruled out by a failure of Doa1 overexpression to restore sam35-2HAts or sen2-1HAts degradation in ubx2Δ cells  . As might be predicted given the role of Ubx2 in linking ubiquitinated proteins to the Cdc48 complex , ubiquitinated forms of the ts- substrates accumulated in the absence of Ubx2  . We see no evidence that loss of Ubx2 affects the already slow turnover of either SAM35HA or SEN2HA  , and an association between these WT proteins and Ubx2 was also not as pronounced relative to their abundance  . Our findings are consistent with Ubx2 interacting with UPS-targeted native and misfolded substrates downstream of their ubiquitination to facilitate degradation . We also confirmed this by co-localization of Ubx2-GFP with both ER  and mitochondrial  markers by microscopy  . The mitochondrial localization of a portion of Ubx2 was further verified biochemically by isolation of mitochondria largely devoid of co-purifying cytosolic  , ER luminal  , or ER membrane  proteins  . As the ER and mitochondria are in close apposition at ER-mitochondrial contact sites , it is possible that ER-localized Ubx2 facilitates mitochondrial protein degradation . To exclude a potential role for the ER in sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts degradation , we assessed their turnover in mutants of the well-characterized ER-mitochondrial encounter structure  complex . The turnover of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts was unaffected in strains mutant for each of the four ERMES components  , indicating that significant reductions in ER-mitochondrial contact do not impair their degradation . Degradation of sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAtsis independent of Msp1  . Finally , as only ~20% of the ER is found in the mitochondrial pellet fraction at 12 , 000xg  , the ts- substrates would be expected to accumulate predominantly in the post-mitochondrial supernatant  if they were being degraded from the ER . Sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts also largely accumulate in the mitochondrial pellet in ubx2Δ cells  . Fzo1 also accumulates predominantly in the mitochondrial pellet when Ubx2 is absent  . Thus , our data indicate that the mitochondrial population of Ubx2 interacts with UPS-targeted MAD substrates post-ubiquitination to facilitate their degradation from the MOM . Here , we define a UPS-mediated pathway for the degradation of individual dysfunctional yeast MOM proteins using two newly-established model QC substrates , sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts  . While previous mitochondrial UPS substrates have consisted primarily of native proteins  , sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts contain mutations that render them unstable at the non-permissive temperature , and thus mimic damaged , misfolded proteins . These new mitochondrial model substrates have revealed a tightly-coupled degradation pathway at the MOM that requires both cytosolic and mitochondrial machinery . This MAD QC pathway utilizes factors that have not been previously linked to mitochondria or implicated in MAD of native MOM proteins . However , tail-anchored proteins mistargeted to mitochondria and unimported mitochondrial precursors that accumulate at the mitochondrial surface following mitochondrial import stress also require the AAA-ATPase Msp1 for their recognition and extraction from mitochondria  . We found Msp1 to be dispensable for the degradation of mitochondrial ts- substrates . The MAD QC pathway characterized here is distinct from this pathway: ts- substrates remain mitochondrial and are degraded independently of ERAD E2s or E3s . Only loss of Doa1 had an effect on mitochondrial ts- protein degradation . Ubx2 is well-known as an ER transmembrane protein with a role in ERAD . Here , we provide strong evidence for a discrete , functional , mitochondrial pool of Ubx2 . Interestingly , we find that Ubx2 also interacts with Fzo1 at mitochondria and is required for its degradation . Consistent with this , while this manuscript was in preparation , a role for Ubx2 in the turnover of mitochondrial precursor proteins arrested in the Tom40 translocon was reported  . With regard to ubiquitination , we find no evidence for the involvement of Rsp5 or SCFMdm30 ubiquitin ligases , which are both implicated in ubiquitination of native MOM proteins and/or maintenance of mitochondrial integrity  . Instead , San1 and Ubr1 , which have broad roles as quality control E3s for misfolded cytosolic and nuclear proteins  , are required to degrade mitochondrial ts- substrates . Sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts , however , remain mitochondrial when degradation is blocked and specific factors implicated in nuclear import were found to be dispensable . Here , the involvement of the SSA family of Hsp70s in mitochondrial ts- protein degradation reflects commonality with cytosolic QC pathways and ERAD pathways for cytosolic misfolded domains  . The SSA family of chaperones is required for co-translational folding or import of at least some mitochondrial proteins  , positioning them to play a role in recognizing misfolded mitochondrial proteins and targeting them to the UPS . Several mitochondrial inner membrane and IMS proteins have also been identified as proteasome substrates  . Finally , it will also be important to determine how our findings extend to mammalian mitochondrial protein turnover and mitochondrial homeostasis as a whole . A strain expressing genomic sam35-2HAts  was constructed by a one-step PCR-mediated HA tagging using pFA6a-3HA-His3M×6  as a PCR template with oligos oMM84 and oMM85 and integration into a sam35-2ts strain  . For sodium carbonate  extraction of peripheral mitochondrial proteins , crude mitochondria isolated as above were treated with 0 . Proteins were prepared as above . 
In this study , we visualise epidermal ERK activity in living mice using an ERK FRET biosensor . Under steady-state conditions , the epidermis occasionally revealed bursts of ERK activation patterns where ERK activity radially propagated from cell to cell . The frequency of this spatial propagation of radial ERK activity distribution  correlated with the rate of epidermal cell division . At the wounded skin , ERK activation propagated as trigger wave in parallel to the wound edge , suggesting that ERK activation propagation can be superimposed . Furthermore , by visualising the cell cycle , we found that SPREADs were associated with G2/M cell cycle progression . Our results provide new insights into how cell proliferation and transient ERK activity are synchronised in a living tissue . ERK activation is triggered by the activation of epidermal growth factor receptors  through binding to their cognate ligands  . However , little is known about how such cell-to-cell communication leading to activation of the Ras/ERK pathway is dynamically regulated in vivo . To address this issue , we live imaged transgenic  mice expressing a Förster resonance energy transfer  biosensor for ERK in order to visualise ERK activity in living epidermis under two photon excitation microscopy  . During long-time time lapse imaging of the steady-state mouse skin , we noticed the epidermis occasionally appear with bursts of ERK activation patterns , where ERK activation is propagated from cell to cell in a radial wave . We named this new phenomenon as Spatial Propagation of Radial ERK Activity Distribution  and investigated characteristics , mechanisms , and roles of SPREAD . Single-cell analysis of SPREAD demonstrated that ERK activation in SPREAD originated from a cluster of a few cells and propagated up to about 50 μm with an average velocity of 1 . The amplitude of ERK activation and efficiency in propagation gradually decreased until SPREAD disappeared . Interestingly , the frequency of SPREAD was spatio-temporally associated with that of cell division . SPREADs were significantly stimulated by topical treatment of mitotic stimulation , 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate  . The role of SPREAD in cell cycle progression was studied with Fucci mice , in which G0/G1 cells and S/G2/M cells are visualised by the expression of mKO2-Cdt1 and mAG-Geminin , respectively  . Inhibition of SPREAD in Fucci mice led to significant delay of entry to G0/G1 phase from S/G2/M phase under TPA treatment , suggesting the role of SPREAD in G2/M progression of cell cycle . We also imaged ERK activity of ear skin subjected to epithelial wounding . Interestingly , wounded skin revealed another type of ERK activation propagation pattern , where waves of ERK activation propagated in parallel with the wound edge . Single cell analysis revealed similarity and difference between the wound-induced waves and SPREAD . While the velocity of ERK activity propagation in wound-induced waves was similar to that of SPREAD , the ERK activation waves from the wound edge was relatively maintained during propagation during propagation . In this study , we propose how dynamically growth signal is regulated in steady-state and wounded skin in a living tissue by showing two types of novel ERK activation patterns . We recently reported Eisuke mice , which can visualise ERK activity at a single cell resolution by the expression of a Förster resonance energy transfer  biosensor for ERK  . In Eisuke mice used in this study , the nuclear ERK biosensor is expressed ubiquitously under the control of the CAG promoter  . The level of FRET was analysed by the FRET/CFP ratio image and shown in intensity modulated display mode; eight colours from red to blue are used to represent the FRET/CFP ratio and the 32 grades of colour intensity are used to represent the signal intensity of the CFP image . The warm and cold colours indicate high and low FRET levels , namely ERK activity , respectively . Backskin of Eisuke mice was successfully visualised by a similar method as ear skin  . In vivo imaging of ERK activity in ear skin . Structure of ERK biosensor  expressed in Eisuke mice . ERK activity maps in three different skin layers indicated in  . ERK activity in the nuclei is represented by intensity modulated display  mode . The warm and cold colours indicate high and low ERK activities , respectively . Images of CFP channel  and FRET channels  of an Eisuke mouse  and a control FVB/N mouse . In vivo imaging of ERK activity in backskin . ERK activity maps in dermis  , basal layer  , and suprabasal layer  of epidermis . ERK activity in the nuclei is represented by intensity modulated display  mode . The warm and cold colours indicate high and low ERK activities , respectively . 005 During long-term time lapse imaging for more than 200 hr in total , we noticed firework-like bursts of ERK activation and propagation in steady-state ear skin  . The ERK activation pattern originated from a few cells and radially propagated mainly in the basal layer of epidermis and to a lesser extent in the suprabasal layer  . We named this focal and transient ERK activation as ‘Spatial Propagation of Radial ERK Activity Distribution’  . It is also noteworthy that SPREADs were also observed in the epidermis of backskin , indicating that SPREADs are generally observed in mouse epidermis  . SPREAD in ear epidermis . Representative time-lapse images of SPREAD in the basal layer of ear epidermis . FRET/CFP ratio is represented in IMD mode  and gold pseudo-colours  . The images are cropped from Video 1 . FRET/CFP ratio is represented in IMD mode  and gold pseudo-colours  . SPREAD in backskin epidermis . Representative time-lapse images of SPREAD in the basal layer of backskin . FRET/CFP ratio is represented in IMD mode  and gold pseudo-colours  . SPREADs detected by in vivo imaging of an Eisuke mouse . A time-lapse video of steady-state basal epidermis of an Eisuke mouse for 12 hr . The skin shows localized ERK activations that concentrically propagate . The FRET/CFP ratio is shown by gold pseudo-colours  . The area of the viewfield is 0 . 008 Detailed analysis of SPREADs was performed with a time-lapse image acquired at shorter intervals  . Among eight SPREADs  , ‘SPREAD 6’ is shown as the example of analysis  . The centres of SPREADs were tentatively determined by visual inspections , which were optimised in later analyses . A square region was set to encompass the entire area of each SPREAD and individual cells were recognised by a segmentation programme  . Then , we attempted to fit the FRET/CFP value of each cell to a flat line of the average FRET/CFP value during the analysed period . Based on the fitted data , the peak time and the amplitude of ERK activation were determined for each cell . By plotting the peak time against the distance from the centre of the SPREAD , the velocity of ERK propagation was determined as 1 . The mean velocity of the eight SPREADs was 1 . The amplitude of ERK activation of each responder cell decreased inversely with the distance of the cell from the origin of the SPREAD  . The number of responders reached the zenith around 5 min after the initiation of SPREAD and subsequently decreased  . The radius of SPREAD was determined as the distance from the SPREAD centre to the inflection point of the plotting of the fraction of responder cells . In the current analysis set-up , the duration and the radius of SPREADs were 30 . We performed this analysis in 8 SPREADs  and found that the size of SPREAD is positively correlated with the Max ERK activity in SPREAD and the wave velocity  . Single cell analysis of SPREAD . Detailed analysis of SPREADs was performed with a time-lapse images acquired at 90-s-interval . Binarized CFP image of the SPREAD area . All cells in the viewfield were analysed in  . The yellow cross indicates the origin of the SPREAD . Time series of raw ERK activity   were approximated with a flat line  or sine curve   . Raw  and fitted  time series of ERK activity  of responders . The distance from the centre of SPREAD to each cell was plotted against the peak time to determine the velocity of ERK propagation . The Max ERK activity of each cell plotted against the distance from the centre of the SPREAD . Peak time histogram of responder cells . The fraction of responder cells in each class of distance from the centre . Cells in the most central class were not analysed because there were only three cells . Eight SPREADs were analysed to examine the correlation between the radius with the velocity of ERK activation propagation  and the Max amplitude of the ERK activity  of each SPREAD . Single cell analysis of individual SPREADs . Binarized CFP image of the SPREAD area . The nucleus of each cell was identified and classified as a non-responder  or a responder  . All cells in the viewfield were analysed in  . The yellow cross indicates the origin of the SPREAD . Fitted time series of ERK activity  of responders . The distance from the centre of SPREAD to each cell was plotted against the peak time to determine the velocity of ERK propagation . The Max ERK activity of each cell plotted against the distance from the centre of the SPREAD . Peak time histogram of responder cells . The fraction of responder cells in each class of distance from the centre . Cells in the most central class were not analysed due to scarcity of cells . Straight and square root line fitting of distance-time plot of SPREAD . and we reported that ERK can be spontaneously and transiently activated in culture cells and we reported that the ERK activity pulse in a single cell could be propagated to the neighbouring cells  . There are some differences between the propagation of ERK activation in vitro and in vivo , that is , SPREADs . First , the amplitudes of ERK activation in vitro are relatively constant during propagation , whereas in SPREADs the amplitudes of ERK activation decay during propagation . Second , ERK activation was propagated initially to almost all neighbouring cells in SPREADs , whereas ERK activity was propagated stochastically in vitro to the neighbouring cells . Third , SPREAD seems to emerge from a small fraction of cells , which is not the case in vitro . Interestingly , the frequency of SPREAD was not constant . Instead , there were periods when SPREADs are more frequently observed than other periods  . Furthermore , we counted cell divisions by visual inspection of time lapse images and found that cell divisions were also more abundantly observed in the periods with frequent SPREADs than those with less frequent SPREADs . For example , while mice #102 , #107 , #112 , #115 , and #117 showed frequent SPREADs and cell divisions , mice #113 , #114 , and #120 showed much less SPREADs and cell divisions  . The cause of the heterogeneity of SPREADs and cell division among the mice is not clear . We failed to find any relationship between the SPREAD frequency and sex or age of the mice  . Mice with frequent SPREADs  showed higher basal ERK activity than those with infrequent SPREADs  ; however , the difference was not statistically significant  . Notably , the period with frequent SPREADs and cell divisions was also observed in the backskin  , indicating that SPREAD is not limited to the ear skin . Spatio-temporal association of SPREADs with cell divisions . Left panels show frequencies of SPREADs  and cell divisions  during periods with frequent SPREADs  and less frequent SPREADs  . Right panels show mapping of the centres of SPREADs  and cell divisions  observed during each imaging period . Shown are single frames of CFP images of a 0 . The frequency of cell division in and out of the SPREAD area . SPREAD area was defined as the area within 100 μm from the origin and within 1 hr of the onset of the SPREAD . Time-lapse images of the yellow square region in  , showing three SPREADs emerging from the same spot . Frequencies of SPREAD and cell division in the steady-state ear skin of eleven mice . Ear skin of eleven Eisuke mice were subjected to imaging as described in Figure 1 . Frequencies of SPREADs  and cell divisions  during imaging are shown with the individual mouse identification numbers , sex and age on the top . Basal ERK activity in mice with frequent SPREAD  and infrequent SPREAD  . Steady-state backskin with frequent SPREADs and cell divisions . Left panel shows the frequencies of SPREADs  and cell divisions  during imaging . Right panel shows mapping of SPREADs  and cell divisions  observed during 14-hr imaging period in the viewfield of 0 . Monte Carlo simulation of SPREAD distribution . Left panel , the distribution of SPREADs in the viewfield of mouse #102 . Right panel , the histogram of average nearest neighbor distance between each SPREAD centre and its nearest neighbor's centre obtained by 100 , 000 trials of Monte Carlo simulations of SPREAD distributions . 015 For quantification of the spatio-temporal relationship between SPREAD and cell division in the eleven ear skin imaging data set , SPREAD area  was defined as the area and time within 100 μm from the origins and within 1 hr of the onset of the SPREADs , while the excluded area was defined as Non-SPREAD area  . It is noteworthy that about 50% of SPREADs emerged from within 50 μm of hair follicles , which occupied 26% of ear skin on average , indicating that SPREADs were initiated preferentially in , but not necessarily restricted to the para-hair follicle regions . To examine statistically whether there are hot spots for SPREAD generation , we tested the null hypothesis that the origins of SPREADs are distributed randomly . In this test , we adopted , as a test statistic , average distance of from the centre of each SPREAD to the nearest neighbour . Furthermore , SPREADs often emerged repeatedly from the same spot  . These results suggest that SPREAD may have a relationship to follicular and interfollicular stem cells  . The association of SPREADs with cell divisions prompted us to examine the effect of a mitotic stimulant , 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate   . Upon topical TPA treatment , ERK activity was gradually stimulated , reaching a plateau approximately 6 hr later . ERK activity remained high for more than 24 hr and gradually decreased to the basal state by 48 hr  . Unexpectedly , we failed to observe an increase in the frequencies of SPREAD and cell division following a single TPA treatment  . However , when we applied a second dose of TPA , according to the established protocol for tumorigenesis  , the frequencies of SPREAD and cell division were significantly increased 10–18 hr later  . This observation suggests that the increase in SPREAD frequency requires the induction and/or synchronization of cells in the replicating cycle upon the second TPA treatment . Induction of SPREADs by the double TPA treatments . 5 nanomole TPA and imaged according to the protocols . Images were acquired every 1 hr during 5- to –7-hr imaging periods . ERK activity in the basal epidermal cells was monitored in FVBEKAREV−NES mice . Average FRET/CFP ratio and S . of three mice are shown for each . of the three mice . 5 nanomole TPA , 207 nanomole PD0329105 , 2 . 0 nanomole TAPI-1 , and 0 . A histogram of SPREADs of the three mice , #201 , #202 , and #203 , which were treated twice with TPA2 in  . A map of SPREADs  and cell divisions  observed during 48–72 hr in the mouse #201 . The numbers of SPREADs and cell divisions observed in each period . Data are from mouse #201 . Numbers of cell divisions  and SPREADs  observed in a 0 . SPREAD induction by topical applications of TPA . A Time-lapse video of an Eisuke mouse topically treated with TPA twice as described in Figure 5C  . The video starts from 12 hr after the second TPA treatment  . SPREADs appeared from about 300 min indicated in the video . The FRET/CFP ratio is shown by gold pseudo-colours  . The area of the viewfield is 0 . 017 We previously showed in vitro that lateral propagation of ERK activity pulses was dependent on MMPs and EGFR activity , indicating that cleavage of pro-EGFR-ligands is critical for the signal propagation  . To examine if a similar mechanism operates in SPREADs , Eisuke mice were topically pre-treated with TAPI-1 , an MMP inhibitor , or PD153035 , an EGFR inhibitor , before the second TPA treatment in the double-TPA stimulation protocol  . Both inhibitors significantly decreased the frequency of SPREADs as well as that of cell division  . These observations suggest that the propagation of ERK activation in SPREAD is mediated by EGFR-ligands released by MMPs as was the case in vitro . For detailed analysis of the role of SPREADs in cell cycle progression , we employed Fucci mice , in which G0/G1 cells and S/G2/M cells are visualised by the expression of mKO2-Cdt1 and mAG-Geminin , respectively  . While the average proportion of S/G2/M cells was 12 . 5% of the viewfields showed more than 50% of S/G2/M cells , which might correspond to the periods of frequent SPREADs  . We then performed the double TPA treatment experiments with Fucci mice . In contrast , the second TPA treatment increased the proportion of S/G2/M cells up to 95% within 12 hr  , which decreased to about 20% at 58 hr after the first TPA  . Together with the reduced frequency of cell division in the TAPI-1-treated Eisuke mice  , this observation suggests that SPREADs play an important role in G2/M progression . Histogram of the percentage of S/G2/M cells in 120 viewfields  of steady-state Fucci mice . About 700 cells were analysed for each viewfield . Representative images of viewfields , where S/G2/M cells  were less than 10%  or more than 50%  . 5 nanomole TPA , 207 nanomole PD0329105 , 2 . 0 nanomole TAPI-1 , and 0 . Images were acquired every 1 hr during 7- to 16-hr-imaging periods . The proportion of S/G2/M cells . Representative time lapse images of protocol TPA2 and TPA2 + TAPI-1 . 018 To study whether SPREADs are induced in a pathologically growth-accelerated condition , we followed ERK activity during wound healing of ear skin . SPREADs were frequently observed in regions ca . 200 μm from the wound edge  . The induction of SPREADs during wound healing again raises the possibility that stem cell activation is involved in their emergence  . As with TPA-induced SPREADs , both SPREADs and cell divisions during wound healing were significantly reduced by TAPI-1 or PD153035 treatment  . 100 μm from the wounded edge , we found another type of ERK activation propagation pattern  . Here , repetitive waves of ERK activation parallel to the wound edge emerged and propagated to cells ca . 100 μm from the wound edge  . The ERK activation waves from the wound edge were suppressed by TAPI-1 treatment , suggesting the involvement of the similar mechanisms as that of SPREAD  . Single-cell analysis of the ERK activation waves from the wound was performed with segmentation and sine curve fittings as performed for SPREADs in Figure 3  . The velocity of ERK activity propagation was determined as 1 . 4 μm/min , which is similar to that in SPREAD  . In contrast to ERK propagation in SPREAD , ERK activation waves from the wound edge maintained high ERK activity and propagation efficiency  , suggesting that ERK activation propagation can be synchronized and superimposed to generate trigger waves if a number of ERK activation pulses are evoked in close temporal and spatial proximity . These similarities and differences between SPREADs and ERK activation waves from the wound edge suggest the possible modification of the amplitude and efficiency in propagation depending on the surrounding environment of the cells . Two types of ERK activity propagation patterns during epithelial wound healing . CFP images of the wounded ear skin of an Eisuke mouse . An epithelial wound was created on the ear skin of an Eisuke mouse 12 hr before observation . The wound edge and location of SPREADs observed during 9 hr of observation are shown by white dashed line and yellow crosses , respectively . Time-lapse images of a representative SPREAD observed in the red-square region in  . Time-lapse images of a representative ERK propagation wave from the wound edge observed in the white-square region in  . The images are cropped from Video 3 . Histogram of the number of SPREADs classified by the distance from the wound edge . In total , 123 SPREADs were analysed from four independent experiments . The frequencies of SPREAD  and cell division  per 1 hr in 1 mm2 . Eisuke mice were topically applied with the indicated drug at the time of wounding . SPREADs and ERK propagation waves in a wounded skin . A Time-lapse video of epidermis of an Eisuke mouse subjected to epithelial wounding 12 hr before imaging . SPREADs were observed at relatively distant areas from the wound edge while ERK activation waves are observed at the proximity of the wound edge . The FRET/CFP ratio is shown by gold pseudo-colours  . The area of the viewfield is 0 . ERK activation waves under MMP inhibitor treatment . A Time-lapse video of an Eisuke mouse subjected to epithelial wounding and 2 . 0 nanomole TAPI-1 treatment 12 hr before imaging . The FRET/CFP ratio is shown by gold pseudo-colours  . The area of the viewfield is 0 . ERK activation waves from the wound edge . A Time-lapse video of an Eisuke mouse subjected to epithelial wounding 12 hr before imaging . This video was used for the analysis of ERK activation waves from the wound edge in Figure 7 . The FRET/CFP ratio is shown by gold pseudo-colours  . The area of the viewfield is 0 . Single cell analysis of ERK propagation waves from the wound edge . A gold pseudo-colour image of FRET/CFP ratio in an Eisuke mouse wounded 12 hr before observation . The image is cropped from Video 5 . Grey nuclei indicate non-responder cells . The distance from the wound edge to each cell was plotted against the peak ERK activation time to determine the velocity of ERK activation propagation . The Max ERK activity of each cell was plotted against the distance from the wound edge . The fraction of responder cells in each distance . Aberrant activation of ERK has been reported in many types of cancers especially by the oncogenic mutation of Ras and Raf  . Despite the significance of ERK activity regulation , technical limitations have obscured how growth signal activation is generated and propagated throughout the tissue . In this study , we exploited transgenic mice expressing a FRET biosensor of ERK and monitored ERK activity in epidermal cells at single cell resolution . Our long time lapse imaging of intact epidermis revealed radial propagation of ERK activity , where ERK activation originates from a few cells and propagate radially up to a radius of about 50 μm over 30 min until disappearance . We named this novel phenomenon as SPREAD and investigated its mechanism of ERK propagation and its role in cell cycle progression . Although we previously reported stochastic propagation of ERK activity pulse in a single cell to its neighbouring cells  , the propagation was restricted within an array of a few cells rather than firework-like round propagation covering more than 100 cells . Our single cell analysis of SPREAD and inhibitor treatment revealed similarities and differences between the two patterns of ERK activation in vitro and in vivo . While they share in common the dependence of EGFRs and the production of their cognate ligands for ERK activation propagation , they differ in the efficiency and amplitude of ERK activation during propagation . Together with the difference in ERK propagation manner between SPREADs in steady-state skin and ERK activation waves , this suggests that ERK propagation pattern might be altered depending on the surrounding environment of the cells , including the involvement of stem cells , cellular density , and pathological conditions . The induction of SPREADs by double TPA treatment raises the possibility that the alterations in SPREADs could be involved in tumorigenesis . The dependency on EGFRs and MMPs strongly suggests that a common molecular mechanism operates between SPREADs and ERK activation propagation in tissue culture cells  . Unlike the ERK activation propagation in tissue culture cells , however , we could not conclude whether the inhibitors against EGFRs and MMPs suppress ERK activation in the initiator cell or abrogate intercellular propagation of the ERK activation . This is because we cannot clearly identify the ERK activation pulse at single cell resolution due partly to the long interval of image acquisition in vivo and low signal-to-noise ratio of in vivo FRET imaging . As well as the established role of ERK activation in G1/S progression of cell cycle  , the necessity of ERK to G2/M progression has also been reported in mammalian cells  . On the other hand , excessive ERK activation in G2 phase arrests cells in G2-phase . Intriguingly , ERK activity is high around the G2/M phase in synchronized cells , but low when cells are arrested in M phase  . These previous reports together with our findings show that exquisite regulation of ERK activation in terms of time , place , and degree is required for cell cycle progression and the localised transient activation of ERK in SPREAD can contribute to it . To validate the causal relationship between SPREADs and cell cycle progression , we need to develop methods to control cell cycle and/or ERK activity with the single cell resolution in the tissues . First , we observed significant increase of cell division in TPA-treated C57BL/6 mice , indicating that TPA promotes cell cycle in C57BL/6 as in FVB/N  . In summary , here we revealed localized propagations of ERK activation regulate cell cycle progression in mouse epidermis . The propagation of ERK activity was achieved by cellular interaction via EGFRs and the production of their cognate ligands . Transgenic mice expressing an ERK FRET biosensor EKAREV-NLS or EKAREV-NES were reported previously  . FRET mice were backcrossed for more than 10 generations to FVB/N before imaging . 5 min for short-time imaging of Eisuke mice expressing EKAREV-NLS , and every 1 hr for imaging of Fucci mice and Eisuke mice expressing EKAREV-NES . The excitation wavelength was 840 nm for mice expressing a FRET biosensor and 910 nm for Fucci mice . Images were acquired with a viewfield of 0 . Mice were anesthetized with 1 . Mice were topically treated with 0 . 5 nanomole TPA , 2 . 0 nanomole TAPI-1 , 0 . Time-lapse images were acquired every 1 . Briefly , the level of FRET was shown by the FRET/CFP ratio image in intensity modulated display mode; eight colours from red to blue are used to represent the FRET/CFP ratio and the 32 grades of colour intensity are used to represent the signal intensity of the CFP image . For better presentation of SPREADs , a 3 × 3 median filter was applied to the FRET/CFP ratio images , and the resulting images were represented by a gold pseudo-colour . Both SPREADs and cell divisions were scored by visual inspections of time-lapse images . Projection images were generated by averaging five serial FRET/CFP images for the analysis of wound images , in which epidermal basal cells appeared in different z planes due to invagination . Cell cycle analysis was performed with Fucci mice . The origins of SPREADs were initially determined by visual inspection and used in the following analysis . First , on the CFP image a square region was set around the origin of the SPREAD . With each nucleus , the FRET/CFP ratio was calculated for all time frames . 003 , the cell was defined as a non-responder . Cells fit by sine curve  were defined as responder cells . For the responder cells , the approximated sine curves were used to obtain the following parameters; peak time , the time when the FRET/CFP ratio reaches the zenith; amplitude , the FRET/CFP ratio at the peak time; duration , the duration during which the FRET/CFP ratio was higher than 50% of the peak ERK activity . Third , for each nucleus of the responder cells , the distance from the origin of the SPREAD was plotted against the peak time . When the fraction of responder cells became less than 50% , the obtained value was defined as the radius of the SPREAD . A test statistic was the average distance between each SPREAD centre and its nearest neighbour's centre . 
Outside the laboratory , circadian clocks do not generally free-run but are driven by daily cues whose timing varies with the seasons . The principles that determine how circadian clocks align to these external cycles are not well understood . Here , we report experimental platforms for driving the cyanobacterial circadian clock both in vivo and in vitro . We find that the phase of the circadian rhythm follows a simple scaling law in light-dark cycles , tracking midday across conditions with variable day length . We develop a general mathematical framework based on instantaneous transformation of the clock cycle by external cues , which successfully predicts clock behavior under many cycling environments . Circadian clocks generate biological rhythms that temporally organize physiology to match the 24 hr diurnal cycle . Although these clocks continue to oscillate in constant laboratory conditions , in natural environments they are driven by the external cycle of day and night . Because of latitude-dependent changes in the duration of day and night throughout the year , clock architectures must incorporate mechanisms that respond appropriately to environmental signals , such as dawn and dusk , whose schedule changes throughout the year . Data from several species indicate that circadian clocks adapt to different day lengths by modulating their phases relative to the light-dark cycle  . In this way , circadian oscillators are able to coordinate physiological events relative to specific times of day and , in multicellular organisms , specialized mechanisms exist that allow oscillators in different cells to follow distinct times of day  . More generally , it remains unclear what features oscillators must have to respond appropriately to varying light-dark cycles and how those features are implemented molecularly in specific systems . Yet , comparatively little is known about how the cyanobacterial clock functions when driven by light-dark cycles that mimic days in different seasons . To study how the circadian clock is affected by light-dark cycles with different day lengths , we developed multiplexed LED illumination devices to grow cyanobacteria in a wide range of light-dark conditions  . We defined the day length  as the total time the lights are on each day  . We found that the circadian rhythm in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942  follows a simple rule: the phase of clock-driven gene expression scales linearly with day length and remains fixed relative to the middle of the day over a wide range of day lengths . Phase of the cyanobacterial circadian rhythm scales linearly with day length . elongatus in programmable light-dark cycles . Drive-and-release strategy to measure phase of the circadian clock under light-dark  cycling . Cells were exposed to five entraining LD cycles and then released into constant light . Bioluminescence signals  from each well were separated into individual ‘day’ and ‘night’ windows . Peak time of bioluminescence  in light-dark cycles of different day length  was quantified by local parabolic fitting around the first maximum of the oscillation after release into constant light . Slope of the linear fit  was determined by linear regression . Dashed and dotted black lines indicate scaling of phase with day length for dawn- and dusk-tracking oscillators; green line indicates midday-tracking behavior . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . org/10 . Bioluminescence recordings from PkaiBC::luxAB reporter in light-dark cycles . Selected bioluminescence traces  recorded from individual wells of the 96-well LED array device in conditions simulating day-night cycles of different day length  . Similarity between the bioluminescence rhythms  recorded during light-dark entrainment and after release into free running conditions . org/10 . The circadian rhythm of S . elongatus rapidly entrains to 24 hr diurnal cycles with 8–16 hr of daylight . Peak times of PkaiBC::luxAB reporter after release into LL from 1 to 7 LD cycles of different day length  , as estimated by sinusoidal regression . Slope m of clock phase scaling with day length stabilizes after three light-dark cycles . Slope of linear fits in  plotted against day length in diurnal cycles . Slope m of clock phase scaling with day length , as estimated by parabolic regression  . org/10 . Bioluminescence recordings from PpurF::luxAB reporter in light-dark cycles . Rhythms in bioluminescence in continuous light recorded from a dawn gene reporter  after entrainment to 24 hr light-dark cycles of different day length τ  . Peak times of the PpurF::luxAB reporter in constant light after entrainment with five LD cycles of different day length  . Straight lines represent linear fits to data from wells entrained to day lengths at least 8 hr long . org/10 . 013 We biochemically simulated seasonal effects in the reconstituted KaiABC oscillator by driving the Kai proteins with pulses of nucleotides on a 24 hr cycle , simulating in vivo metabolic conditions during day and night . Remarkably , this in vitro system shows a similar linear scaling of clock phase with simulated day length , indicating that core mechanisms for seasonal adaptation are intrinsic to the Kai proteins . We developed a minimal mathematical model for oscillator entrainment based on rapid transitions between distinct day and night clock cycles . The model can account for the ability to track midday if the phase shifts caused by dawn and dusk depend linearly on clock time with appropriate slopes . By calibrating this model with independent measurements in vitro and in vivo , we were able to predict the results of phase response experiments , and the behavior of the clock in non-24 hr light-dark cycles . The essential feature of the model , the linear dependences of phase shifts on clock time , has a simple geometric interpretation in terms of the deformation of the clock orbit caused by a transition between light and dark . Thus , the entrained behavior of the circadian clock can be captured quantitatively by a mathematical framework with a small number of parameters . We thus expected that asymmetric light-dark cycles mimicking days in different seasons would realign the clock cycle . This LED array was coupled to a plate reader that allowed us to monitor clock output—gene expression from clock-driven promoters—using strains engineered with luminescent reporters of representative dusk  and dawn  genes . In these experiments , the circadian clock stably entrained to light-dark cycles with a wide range of day lengths  within roughly 3 days  . We found that the phase of the oscillation , that is , when the peak clock output signal occurred relative to dawn , varied systematically as a function of day length . By plotting the time of peak reporter signal versus day length , we found that the driven behavior of the clock follows a simple scaling law: the clock phase is proportional to day length  . The proportionality constant , m , falls in an intermediate range  between the limits corresponding to either dawn  or dusk  fully resetting the clock . The linear relationship between clock phase and day length with slope m ≈ 0 . 5 implies that cyanobacteria set their clocks to reach the same internal time at the middle of the daylight hours , independent of day length . Summary of biologically independent in vivo experiments measuring entrainment to 24 hr light-dark cycles of varying day length and corresponding estimates of m , the proportionality coefficient between the peak time of PkaiBC::luxAB reporter and day length during light-dark entrainment . org/10 . 11  The fact that the core oscillator of the cyanobacterial circadian clock can be reconstituted in vitro from purified Kai proteins  naturally led to the question of whether the ability to track midday in vivo is intrinsic to the core oscillator , or if it requires additional factors present in the cell . Reconstitution of the seasonal clock response in vitro . Buffer exchange protocol to simulate metabolic driving of the clock . Phase of KaiABC oscillation scales linearly with simulated day length  , as assessed by the peak time of KaiC phosphorylation  or peak time of fluorescence polarization  of fluorescently labeled KaiB . Peak times of fluorescence polarization were estimated from sinusoidal fits to oscillations recorded in free-running conditions after entraining the oscillator with three metabolic cycles . Peak time of %P-KaiC was estimated by fitting sinusoids to KaiC phosphorylation time series from the third day of reactions . Scaling of entrained phase was measured once via KaiC phosphorylation analysis  and twice using the fluorescence polarization probe  with an independent preparation of proteins . org/10 . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Validation of KaiB fluorescence polarization reporter against KaiC phosphorylation rhythm . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Pulsing the ATP/ADP ratio in this way caused the KaiC phosphorylation rhythm to synchronize to the external cycle . By the third cycle , the oscillator appeared to have stably entrained , and , similar to the clock behavior that we observed in live cells , longer times in daytime buffer led to later peak phosphorylation times . We estimated peak times for these oscillator reactions during the third entraining cycle and found that the phase of the in vitro rhythm scales linearly in proportion with simulated day length  , with KaiC phosphorylation rhythm peaking roughly 3 hr after the midpoint of simulated daytime , suggesting that the reconstituted Kai oscillator is capable of tracking the approximate midday point of an externally imposed metabolic rhythm . To more accurately measure the scaling of entrained phase with day length in KaiABC oscillator reactions , we turned to a fluorescence polarization probe that enables automated measurement of oscillator state with high temporal resolution   . We used this assay to determine clock phases in free-running conditions after entraining the Kai proteins with three metabolic cycles , analogous to the design of the in vivo experiments . We again measured linear scaling of the entrained phase , albeit with a lower slope than the estimate from sparser gel-based measurements of KaiC phosphorylation  . Despite the variability in our estimates of m , these measurements suggest that the in vitro oscillator successfully captures the essential feature of seasonal entrainment we observed in vivo: linear scaling of entrained phase with an intermediate slope . We therefore sought to use this in vitro model of seasonality to uncover the biochemical basis of the linear seasonal clock response . In the purified system , the entraining cues are steps between high and low ATP/ADP that simulate dawn and dusk . We therefore sought to decompose the seasonal adaptation of the clock into step responses following each metabolic transition . This approach is related to the limit cycle theory of oscillators: if we assume that a unique stable orbit exists for both the day and night conditions , then a metabolic transition forces the system to adjust from its current cycle to one associated with the new condition . If relaxation to the new orbit occurs rapidly relative to the length of the day—that is , if the light and dark orbits are strongly attracting—then the state of the oscillator at each transition can be specified simply by a phase angle on that orbit . In this limit , the response of the system is fully determined by instantaneous phase shifts caused by the transitions . Mathematically , we describe this limit as an oscillator comprised of a single phase variable , θ , that runs along a fixed limit cycle trajectory at constant speed  . The responses to dark-to-light or light-to-dark transitions are then represented by phase shifts that are specified by the functions L  and D  , respectively . To determine whether this fast-relaxation approximation can describe phase shifts in the core Kai oscillator , and to study their biochemical basis , we measured the L  and D  shift functions in our reconstituted system . Clock responses to metabolic steps mimicking dawn  and dusk  . Phase shift in fluorescence polarization  caused by a shift to a buffer that mimics the nucleotide pool at night ( /  ≈ 25% , gray bar ) . Phase shift in fluorescence polarization  caused by a shift from night buffer back to day buffer ( /  ≈ 100% , beige bar ) . Summary of phase shifts caused by metabolic step-down  or step-up  perturbations throughout the clock cycle . Simulated day-night or night-day steps were administered as in  and  . To estimate the phase of each reaction , trajectories were fit to sinusoids . Phase shifts were determined relative to the respective control reactions . The times at which buffer steps were administered were converted to circadian time  . Colored arrows indicate clock phases when metabolic shifts occur in entrained conditions . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Example calculation of phase shifts in response to metabolic step transitions . Phase shifts are computed from the difference in phase of the control reaction and the perturbed reaction evaluated at the time of the step . Periods of the oscillator in day and night conditions were fit globally to all reactions measured in one experiment . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Experimentally measured step-response functions predict entrainment to driving periods near 24 hr . Entrainment simulations with driving periods 4–48 hr were performed for 1000 cycles , and phases at the end of nighttime  of the last 920 cycles were plotted . In each simulation , the oscillator runs at constant angular speed in the light and dark , and experiences instantaneous phase shifts at dawn and dusk , according to the values of L and D . Refer to Figure 4A for an illustration of a single entrainment simulation . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 025 We proceeded to calculate phase shifts from these measurements , taking into consideration that a switch to nighttime buffer conditions could affect the oscillator in two ways: the phase of the oscillation can shift , and the oscillator period may change , both of which can change the relative timing of peaks . We detail our procedure for analyzing these data to extract phase shifts in Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . Plotted together in Figure 3C–D , the extrapolated phase shifts measure the sensitivity of the clock to individual light and dark steps throughout the 24 hr day . The measured L  and D  step-response functions show that the phase of the purified KaiABC oscillator is responsive to both step-up and step-down metabolic changes . For example , a day-to-night shift lengthens the period of the clock by about 2 hr , and , when it is applied at subjective morning , leads to an instantaneous phase delay of about 3 hr  . On the other hand , a night-to-day transition in the middle of subjective night shortens the period and causes a phase advance of about 1 . 5 hr . These measurements characterize how the oscillator responds to a metabolic step-change throughout the entire clock cycle . However , when the clock is stably synchronized to a cycling environment , dawn and dusk fall only in a limited window of clock phases . We identified phases that correspond to dawn or dusk in entrained conditions mimicking LD 6:18 to LD 18:6 and marked these phases on the L  and D  functions  . Because these regions of L  and D  represent phase shifts comparable in magnitude but opposite in sign , we hypothesized that their opposing forces could enable oscillator entrainment to light-dark cycles . To check this hypothesis , we simulated a simple  oscillator that runs at constant frequencies in the light and dark and adjusts its phase in response to dawn and dusk according to the phase shift functions that we measured in Figure 3C–D  . We analyzed the stability properties of this map and found that the oscillator could entrain with a unique phase to driving periods of within 4–5 hr of its natural circadian period . Outside this range , the oscillator failed to entrain or exhibited more complex dynamics  . We proceeded to test whether the measured L  and D  step-response functions could successfully reproduce the entrainment of the oscillator to repeated 24 hr metabolic cycles of varying day length , shown in Figure 2 . When subjected to light-dark cycles in simulations , the oscillator model stably entrains to the diurnal schedule within two-to-five cycles  . Importantly , the simulated entrained phase scales linearly with day length with a slope similar to the experimental data , indicating that the driven clock response can indeed be decomposed into a series of step responses to environmental transitions  . Entrainment of the phase oscillator model to a driving cycle . Schematic of a phase-only oscillator that responds to dawn and dusk with instantaneous phase shifts . The oscillator runs at constant velocities ωL during the day and ωD at night  , except for dawn and dusk where sudden shifts occur  . This simulation illustrates entrainment to a LD 12:12 cycle for an oscillator with ωL  , ωD  , and L  and D  as experimentally measured for the KaiABC oscillator  . Simulated approach to stable entrainment in the model  for light-dark cycles of different day length  . Simulated seasonal response of an oscillator that responds rapidly to light-dark cues according to the phase shift functions in Figure 3C  . In simulations , tpk is defined as the time when oscillator phase θ equals π rad  , corresponding to the peak of KaiC phosphorylation . Peak times in polarization data were converted to equivalent peak KaiC phosphorylation times using the measured phase offset for the polarization reporter  . Error bars on in vitro data show uncertainty of fit phase . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Example simulation of a phase oscillator governed by one set of experimentally determined L  and D  functions and subjected to a driving cycle . The phase oscillator reaches stable entrainment within 3–5 light-dark cycles  for a wide range of starting phases . Colored circles mark phases corresponding to dawn ( on L^  ) and dusk ( on D^  ) in seasonal entrainment simulations of different day length τ  . θ = 0 refers to the phase when the minimum of the KaiC phosphorylation rhythm occurs . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Simulations of seasonal entrainment for a phase oscillator driven by linearized step-response functions  . Simulated seasonal response of phase oscillators governed by the four possible combinations of nonlinear L^  and D^  step-response functions in Figure 3   and their linearized versions L^lin  and D^lin   . In simulations , tpk is defined as the time when oscillator phase θ equals π rad  , corresponding to the peak of KaiC phosphorylation . Simulated seasonal response of phase oscillators governed by step-response functions measured for an independent preparation of clock proteins using SDS-PAGE analysis of KaiC phosphorylation Figure 3  . Colored circles mark stably entrained phases corresponding to dawn ( for L^  ) and dusk ( for D^  ) in simulations of different day length τ  . θ = 0 refers to the minimum of the KaiC phosphorylation rhythm . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Dependence of the slope of entrained phase on the slopes of step response functions . Heat map of slope m , describing the scaling of oscillator peak time with day length , as a function of the slopes l and d of linear L  and D  step response functions and oscillator frequencies in light and dark   . The ratio of oscillator frequencies in light and dark was estimated to be ωD/ωL=0 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Although the absolute magnitude of the step responses in these measurements was larger , they still predict linear scaling of entrained phase in simulations for day lengths between 6 and 14 hr  . We found that simulated entrainment of the phase oscillator model was particularly sensitive to the regions surrounding subjective dusk ( for D  ) and subjective dawn ( for L  )  . Based on our observation that L  and D  in the KaiABC system are approximately linear in the regions used during metabolic entrainment , we asked whether linear L  and D  would result in a linear dependence of clock phase on day length . Consider a phase oscillator driven by light-dark cycles of period T and day length τ  . When the oscillator is entrained  to the light-dark cycle , the oscillator returns to the same state by the end of a full cycle . Starting from an initial phase θ0 , the clock accumulates phase ωLτ during the day , then experiences a phase shift of magnitude D  at dusk , accumulates phase ωD  at night , and finally responds to dawn with a phase shift L  :10 . Phase oscillator entrainment . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 032 Here all angles are measured in units of cycles  , and ωL and ωD are the oscillator frequencies in the light and dark , respectively . For stable entrainment , the effects of L  at dawn and D  at dusk must balance the phase accumulated by the oscillator , so that the phase returns to the same point at the end of each cycle . This expression for the entrained clock phase scales linearly with day length if its derivative with respect to τ is constant . The simplest way to achieve this condition is if L  and D  are themselves linear functions of θ , such that D  ≈−d  and L  ≈−l  over the relevant range of clock times . If oscillator frequency is the same in light and dark , as is approximately true for the Kai oscillator  , the peak time of the oscillation  can be expressed as tpk= mτ+C , with the slope m  =d  /  determined by the slopes of the linear L  and D  functions . If the day and night oscillator frequencies differ , we still obtain a linear dependence on day length , but with an altered expression for the proportionality constant m  . This expression for m imposes constraints on values of l and d required for an oscillator to track different portions of the day-night cycle . Figure 4—figure supplement 3 highlights the requirements on l and d for a midday-tracking clock . To determine whether L  and D  for the Kai oscillator are in line with these mathematical requirements , we examined the linear portions of the step-response functions in Figure 3 . Indeed , the slopes of L  and D  from the fluorescence polarization assay  predict an m value consistent with our measurements of the entrained in vitro oscillator using the same method ( m  = 0 . However , maintaining the linear scaling of phase with day length only requires that both L  and D  be linear over the range of clock times when dawn and dusk occur , respectively , with the nonlinearities required to satisfy periodicity appearing at other times . The exact width of the linear region of L  and D  depends on m and the range of day lengths that the oscillator is required to track . For example , an oscillator capable of tracking midday  over a 12 hr range of day lengths requires that L  and D  be linear over at least one quarter of the cycle . To further test whether entrainment of the Kai system can be described by this framework , we returned to our phase oscillator simulations  . When we replaced our experimentally measured L  and D  functions with linear approximations , the simulated oscillator exhibited a similar scaling of entrained phase over a wide range of day lengths  . Together , these results indicate that the driven behavior of the cyanobacterial circadian clock in 24 hr cycles can be approximated as a simple oscillator that shifts in response to light-dark transitions with a sensitivity that varies linearly with phase . To test whether this linear mathematical framework holds more generally and to understand how the cyanobacterial clock responds to a broader range of environments , we sought to measure clock response to a variety of external conditions with both single and repeated light-dark transitions . The phase oscillator model described above was inspired by the observation of linear scaling of clock phase in 24 hr days with various day lengths . The key model assumptions are  a unique clock cycle in the light and in the dark ,  rapid relaxation from one cycle to another when conditions change , and  sensitivity to environmental changes that varies linearly with clock time . While these assumptions hold , the model should be capable of describing the behavior of a biological clock in arbitrary fluctuating environments . elongatus clock function in response to dark pulses administered at different clock times . This corresponds to a classical phase response curve  analysis , a commonly used tool in circadian biology for characterizing the response of a biological clock to perturbations . We also probed clock responses to dark pulses of varying lengths  , and to repeated light-dark cycles with periods different from 24 hr . Our phase oscillator model predicts that the quantitative response to these various perturbations should all be related through the step-up and step-down functions  . One specific prediction of the model is that changing the time at which a dark pulse begins and the duration of a dark pulse should have separable linear effects on the oscillator , which would manifest as linear curves in phase response and wedge analyses . The overall agreement between the model and data suggest that limited data on clock response can be successfully extrapolated to other conditions using this approach . Phase oscillator model with linear phase shift functions predicts entrainment of the cyanobacterial clock to different light-dark  patterns . Phase resetting analysis . Phase shifts of bioluminescence rhythm  due to 12 hr dark pulses  administered throughout the circadian cycle . θ  is the clock phase at beginning of the dark pulse , with θ = 0 defined as clock phase at the trough of the bioluminescence rhythm . Phase shifts of bioluminescence rhythm  due to dark pulses of varied length  administered near subjective dusk  . Clock phases at the beginning of the dark pulse are listed in parentheses; θ = 0 is defined as clock phase at the trough of the bioluminescence rhythm . Seasonal response in non-24 hour environmental cycles . Cells were grown in LD cycles with period T = 22–26 hr and day length τ = 8–14 hr  . After five entraining cycles , cells were released into LL and the phase of the circadian rhythm was estimated by sinusoidal regression . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Simulation of a phase-resetting curve . Simulated phase-resetting curve due to a 12 hr dark pulse for a phase oscillator governed by linear step-response functions L^lin  and D^lin   , as in in Figure 4—figure supplement 2 . Colored circles indicate phases at the beginning of the dark pulse  . θ = 0 refers to the trough of the KaiC phosphorylation rhythm . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . 035 To understand the implications of these results , consider the phase response curve  for a 12 hr dark pulse  . Clock response is weakest at times when nightfall is expected  and increases gradually with clock time . In other words , a circadian clock capable of tracking midday over a wide range of day lengths is expected to have a PRC that is approximately linear over many hours except for a narrow region of rapid change that is required to satisfy periodicity . In the dark-pulse PRC for S . To address these issues , we considered the simplest possible dynamical representation that allows for distinct day and night clock cycles . In this model , the clock cycle during the day is represented by a circular limit cycle with unit radius , and the clock time is defined by the angular coordinate of the oscillator on this limit cycle  . The effect of darkness is to deform the limit cycle , transforming the daytime orbit to a nighttime orbit . For simplicity , we assume this night cycle lies in the same plane as the day cycle and is also circular , but may be offset relative to the day cycle and have a distinct radius  . Nearly linear step response functions can arise from the relative geometry of day and night limit cycles . Geometric model of oscillator phase resetting . During the day , the oscillator runs with constant angular velocity along the daytime orbit  , which has unit radius and is centered at the origin . At dusk , the oscillator transits to the nighttime orbit  , which has radius R and is displaced from the daytime orbit by X units . In the limit where the nighttime orbit is strongly radially attracting , we can approximate oscillator response to the light-dark transition ( D  , red arrow ) as an instantaneous jump from phase θτ on the daytime orbit toward the center of the nighttime cycle , resulting in phase θτ+D  on the night orbit . Simulation of oscillator phase shifts due to light-dark transitions at different phases on the day orbit  for R = 2 , X = 2 . For geometries with X ≈ R , phase angles on the day orbit are compressed to an arc on the night limit cycle that subtends a smaller angle . Simulations of L  and D  step response functions arising from the geometric arrangement of day and night cycles in  . Heat map of the slope m of the approximately linear relationship between entrained phase and day length , plotted as a function of X and R . In white regions , the oscillator does not entrain stably or the oscillator does not show linear scaling of phase with day length . Slope determined from simulations of oscillator entrainment to 24 hr driving cycles of day length τ = 6–18 hr . Limit cycles traversed by the KaiABC oscillator in vitro in metabolic conditions mimicking day ( yellow , /  ≈ 100% ) and night ( black , /  ≈ 25% ) . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Illustrations of limit cycle geometries that give rise to step-response functions L  and D  with different slopes , resulting in dusk- , dawn- , or midday-tracking entrainment . In all schematics , the day orbit  is centered at the origin and has radius 1 . The night orbit  has radius R and is displaced from the day orbit  units ) . Light-dark ( D  ) and dark-light ( L  ) transitions are indicated by red and blue arrows , respectively . When the night cycle is much smaller than the day cycle  , both dawn and dusk are strongly resetting  . Because all phases on the night orbit are mapped to a small range of phases on the day orbit , oscillator phase at dawn is independent of day length during entrainment  . When the sizes of day and night orbits are comparable  , the slopes of L  and D  depend on the fine-tuned arrangement of the orbits . The slope of entrained phase with day length depends on both l and d , according to m  =d  /   . When the night cycle is much bigger than the day cycle  , dusk is strongly resetting , but dawn transitions have little effect on clock phase  . Entrainment to repeated light-dark cycles maps clock phases on the night orbit to a shrinking range of angles , leading to dusk-tracking entrainment  . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . The relative size  and center-to-center distance  of day and night limit cycles are major determinants of entrained behavior . Heat maps of m , the slope of the approximately linear relationship between entrained phase and day length , are plotted as a function of X and R on the same color scale as in Figure 6E . Entrainment simulations with non-instantaneous jumps between day and night limit cycles . Schematic on the left illustrates the evolution of the oscillator from a point on the night limit cycle to the day limit cycle in two scenarios with different relaxation times . Each arrow represents the displacement of the oscillator in 1 hr . Entrainment simulations for day and night limit cycles of varying ellipticity . The ratios of the major axis length to the minor axis length of the day and night orbits  are indicated above the heatmaps . Entrainment simulations for day and night limit cycles with non-constant angular velocities . In these simulations , we considered circular orbits for both day and night limit cycles . Schematic on the left illustrates the evolution of the oscillator along day limit cycle in two scenarios with different values of εω . Each arrow represents the displacement of the oscillator in 1 hr; size of the arrowheads illustrates changes in angular velocity throughout the cycle  . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . Interpretation of m , the slope of the approximately linear relationship between entrained phase and day length . The value of m dictates whether the circadian rhythm aligns to dawn  , dusk  , or an intermediate point of the day-night cycle  . Gray bars indicate night in light-dark cycles for m = 0 , 0 . Tracking midday as the day length varies may be a strategy to balance biosynthetic resources between dawn and dusk transcriptional programs . elongatus  . DOI: http://dx . org/10 . That is , when the system is in a state off the limit cycle , it is rapidly pulled to the closest point on the cycle . To determine how the entrained clock phase depends on geometry in this model , we simulated step transitions and then calculated the slope m of clock phase versus day length  . This calculation indicates that midday tracking  requires that the separation between the light and dark cycles is comparable to the radius of the cycle  . Dusk transitions are strongly resetting for this choice of X , but the strength of dawn resetting varies with the relative size of the orbits . Dawn-tracking entrainment results when the night orbit is much smaller than the day orbit  and dusk-tracking entrainment results when the night orbit is much larger  , in accord with how m varies as a function of l and d  . When the size of both orbits is similar to their center separation , the oscillator can track intermediate phases , such as midday . Although this model makes a simple connection between attractor geometry and entrainment , it also makes a number of simplifying assumptions about oscillator dynamics that may not hold true for real biological clocks , such as instant transitions between cycles , perfectly circular orbits and constant angular frequencies along each cycle . Our simulations in Figure 6—figure supplement 2 show that in these more complicated scenarios the geometric arrangement of day and night cycles remains a key determinant of the slope of entrained clock phase as a function of day length . Indeed , in all cases we studied , midday tracking was only possible for geometries where the center-to-center distance between the day and night cycles was comparable to the radius of the larger orbit  . Changes in the external environment caused by transitions between night and day should affect the oscillator in such a way that the period remains close to 24 hr , but that the limit cycle is shifted by an amount comparable to its radius . The relative geometry of the two limit cycles , which is determined by the mechanisms that couple the environment to the clock , must be fine-tuned to give a specific slope for the entrained phase . Although circadian clocks are defined in part by their ability to continue to cycle in constant environments , the defects associated with clock mutants are often most apparent when organisms are faced with fluctuating environments  . elongatus contends with these challenges using a clock that tracks the middle of the day . The ability of circadian clocks to keep track of the phase of the light-dark cycle has been long recognized in plants , insects , rodents and higher mammals  . Although molecular mechanisms that give rise to these entrainment behaviors are still being uncovered , analysis of circadian clock models has found that the presence of multiple feedback loops in complex clocks determines the number of points in the driving cycle that the oscillator can track simultaneously , by allowing different internal phase relationships between the clock components  . For example , the multi-feedback loop clocks in plants are able to track phases of both dawn and dusk  . Consistent with this picture , we find that the core circadian oscillator in cyanobacteria , which relies on a single posttranslational feedback loop , keeps track of a single phase—the midpoint of the day portion of the cycle , a property described in our mathematical framework as a linear scaling of entrained phase with day length with slope m ≈ 0 . Why might keeping track of midday be useful for a photosynthetic organism with a simple clock ? Clock-controlled gene expression in S . elongatus tends to be bimodal , with most genes falling into subjective dawn or dusk classes . The purified clock responds to metabolic steps with phase shifts that are linear functions of the previous phase . The slopes of these response functions are presumably tuned to give an appropriately entrained clock phase . Notably , linear responses have also been observed for the Kai oscillator following temperature steps , suggesting that this is a general reaction of the system to inputs  . His work motivated a theory of entrainment to diurnal cycles mediated by instantaneous phase shifts at dawn and dusk , which can be summarized by a phase response curve . Daan and Pittendrigh suggested that the ability of the clock to track specific phases of the day-night cycle in different seasons depends on the shape of the phase response curve as well as the difference between the free-running period of the clock and the period of the day-night cycle  . Our decomposition of driven behavior of the KaiABC oscillator into individual step responses is in the spirit of this classic paradigm . We note that a mismatch between the free-running clock period and the external cycle is not required for stable entrainment in our phase oscillator model  . Instead , entrainment can be achieved from the opposing effects of the step-up and step-down phase shifts , which occur at different clock times in days of different length . The step-response curves underlying entrainment in our model are nonlinear functions of clock phase , but they can be successfully approximated by linear functions over the interval of clock phases used during entrainment . Our simulations suggest that the slopes of these locally linear functions are key determinants of entrained phase , along with changes in clock period in daytime and nighttime conditions . The data reduction achieved in our linear model holds the promise of predicting the behavior of the circadian rhythms in many time-varying environments from a minimal data set that characterizes oscillator response , and may be applicable to clocks in many organisms . Although the biochemistry of even the simplest circadian clock is complex , our analysis suggests that a key determinant of entrained behavior is how the clock limit cycle is deformed by coupling to the environment . Viewed in this way , the entrainment properties of circadian oscillators arise from simple features of the geometry of the limit cycle attractor that could be measured in any organism . The concept that the phase-shifting of oscillators can be studied in terms of their geometric properties was initially developed by Winfree  . In this context , it would be informative to analyze the geometric arrangement of day and night limit cycles of clock gene transcripts in other species . 
Genome-wide association studies have identified Meis1 as a risk factor for SCD . We report that Meis1 inactivation in the mouse neural crest leads to an altered sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac rhythmicity in adults characterized by a chronotropic incompetence and cardiac conduction defects , thus increasing the susceptibility to SCD . We demonstrated that Meis1 is a major regulator of sympathetic target-field innervation and that Meis1 deficient sympathetic neurons die by apoptosis from early embryonic stages to perinatal stages . In addition , we showed that Meis1 regulates the transcription of key molecules necessary for the endosomal machinery . Accordingly , the traffic of Rab5+ endosomes is severely altered in Meis1-inactivated sympathetic neurons . These results suggest that Meis1 interacts with various trophic factors signaling pathways during postmitotic neurons differentiation . Congenital cardiac innervation defects or dysfunction are largely implicated in SCD and often involve molecules that are essential for the developmental guidance and axonal growth of cardiac sympathetic nerves , such as Sema3a and Ngf  . Recently , two independent genome wide association studies based on abnormal cardiac conduction as an increased susceptibility to SCD have emphasized a restricted number of genes among which Meis1  . The early steps of sympathetic neurons development have been extensively documented . During sympathetic neurons formation , a concerted cross-regulated transcriptional network induced by BMPs and involving among others the transcription factors Hand2 , Ascl1 , Phox2b and Gata3 initially instructs neural crest cells to a sympathetic fate and a noradrenergic phenotype by up-regulating the expressions of general neuronal markers and the monoamines biosynthesis enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase  and dopamine-β-hydroxylase   . Subsequently , connecting sympathetic neurons with their peripheral target relies on combined actions of locally secreted ligands of various families of trophic factors  . Artn , a growth factor of the Gdnf family of ligands , acting on GFRα3 and Ret , and the neurotrophin Ntf3 are initially involved in proximal axonal growth , and members of the endothelin family serve as vascular-derived guidance cues for sympathetic neurons  , allowing sympathetic axons to reach the vicinity of target organs . At later stages , distal axonal growth and target-field innervation are under the control of retrograde Ntrk1/Ngf signaling for most organs including the heart  . Retrogradely transported Ngf/Ntrk1 is mediated by Rab5-positive endosomes . This signaling induces phosphorylation of CREB and allows the maintenance of Ntrk1 expression both of which are required to promote axonal growth and branching of sympathetic neurons within their peripheral target organs , and to protect them from naturally occurring cell death  . Whereas part of the transcriptional program regulating the induction of Ntrk1 expression has been revealed in the peripheral nervous system  through analysis of the effects of Klf7 inactivation  , the transcriptional regulation of molecules implicated in retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 transport mechanisms in particular or endosomal transport in general are unknown . We aimed in our study at investigating if Meis1 participates in neural aspects of cardiac regulation by intervening in the differentiation of sympathetic neurons and how Meis1 mutations could mediate susceptibility for unexplained SCD . In this work , we highlight that loss of Meis1 function in early sympathetic neurons leads to an imbalanced sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac functions in adult mice resulting in increased susceptibility to SCD . We further demonstrate that this imbalance results from neurodevelopmental defects leading to sympathetic neurons apoptosis and we position Meis1 as novel actor in sympathetic neurons differentiation by its role in distal target-field innervation . Among the target genes regulated by Meis1 , we evidenced a transcriptional regulation of proteins necessary for retrograde transport , endosomes formation , functioning and traffic . Accordingly , following specific inactivation of Meis1 in peripheral neurons , the traffic of Rab5+ early endosomes is impaired and sympathetic target-field innervation is compromised . To examine the consequences of specific inactivation of Meis1 in the mouse peripheral nervous system  , the PLATCRE strain was crossed with the Meis1LoxP/LoxP strain  . Immunochemistry and Western blot analysis showed a complete loss of Meis1 in sympathetic neurons from E16 . 5 embryo and adult mutant mice  . When grown in a C57BL/6 genetic background , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice carried Meis1 alleles according to a Mendelian ratio but newborn pups died within the first days following birth . When grown in a mixed genetic background , 50% of the mutant mice survived beyond early neonatal stages and exhibited blepharoptosis  , a physiological sign of sympathetic neurons dysfunction . The premature death of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice together with their drooping eyelids phenotype led us to hypothesize impairments of sympathetic functions and consequent SCD . Accordingly , we found that newborn and adult mutants exhibited a dramatic reduction in cardiac sympathetic innervation by TH+ fibers  . WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP adult mice were telemetrically monitored for ECG recordings and processed with Heart Rate Variability  analysis , a method allowing quantifying autonomic nervous system  activity on heart rate . HRV analysis in the frequency domain  confirmed a severe decrease in LF/HF ratio  due to a drop in the LF band  in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP vs WT mice without affecting the HF component  , demonstrating that the sympathetic only but not the parasympathetic component is affected  . WT and mutant mice were challenged by i . Whereas a significant 45% decrease in the RR interval was recorded in WT mice during the effort  , a non-significant and delayed 13% decrease in the RR interval was observed in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . In contrast to control WT mice , during the recuperation phase , 75% of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice developed ventricular fibrillations followed by cardiac arrest that was occasionally cardio-converted as shown in Figure 1F . Specific Meis1 inactivation in the PNS results in sympatho-vagal deregulation of cardiac functions . Immunochemistry for Meis1 and the transcription factor Phox2b on sections of SCGs from E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice , and western blot analysis for Meis1 from adult stellate ganglia . Immunostaining for TH+ sympathetic fibers in the heart of newborn WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . White arrows point at TH+ sympathetic fibers . Example of an ECG trace recorded in an adult male PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mouse . HRV analysis of the ECGs recordings of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT mice . Time course of the mean RR interval during isoproterenol or carbamoylcholine chloride challenges in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . Typical sinus arrest  trace obtained in a PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mouse and quantification of the mean number of sinus arrest per hour over a 12 hr ECG recording in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP vs WT mice . Morphologic and left ventricular function parameters assessed by Doppler echocardiography in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . Sympatho-vagal deregulation of cardiac functions following Meis1 inactivation in the PNS . Targeting vector used for the generation of the Meis1 conditional knockout mouse strain  . The exon 8 of the gene encoding the beginning of the homeodomain has been flanked with LoxP sites . Kaplan-Meier survival curve showing the premature death of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice  compared to WT mice  . Table recapitulating the minimum RR  , corresponding to the maximal effect of isoproterenol on heart rate and the time to lose half of the effect  , the maximum RR interval  , corresponding to the maximal effect of carbamoylcholine chloride and the duration to lose half of the effect  in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . 5 WT , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and Wnt1CRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP hearts embryos . Whereas the cardiac septum was identical to that of WT in 3/3 analyzed PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos , we observed a defect in the cardiac septum of 1/1 Wnt1CRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryo . Quantification of the density of TH+ sympathetic fibers on sections of the heart in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT adult mice . Representative images showing that the remaining fibers in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP are thinner than in WT mice . Cardiac echography analysis revealed no difference following Meis1 inactivation . Evaluations of left ventricular morphology and function by Doppler echocardiography showed no difference between WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . 006 Because Meis1 inactivation has been linked to cardiac septum defect  , a structure derived partly from neural crest cells  , and to exclude the possible participation of such defects in the cardiac phenotype we observed , heart sections from E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP were analyzed . 5 mutant embryos analyzed , we never observed any defect in cardiac septum closure . However , in 1/1 Wnt1CRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP , a CRE driver commonly used to recombine in cardiac neural crest derivatives  , the cardiac septum was not fully closed  . Both views did not revealed any defect in the septum of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice and the ejection fraction  , which is used as the conventional contractile function index , was not different from WT mice  . Thus , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice present no cardiac malformations and exhibit normal hemodynamic parameters suggesting that the outflow tract is unaffected . Altogether , these explorations revealed that PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice present profound alterations in the sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac functions , affecting specifically the sympathetic component whereas the parasympathetic component is unaffected . The high occurrence of sinus arrest together with spontaneous blocks of conduction , chronotropic incompetence and episodes of ventricular fibrillation following exercise clearly point to a high increased risk for SCD in adult PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice dependent on altered sympatho-vagal control of heart rhythm and independent of cardiac malformations . Together with the reduced sympathetic innervation of cardiac tissue , these results led us to investigate in depth the role of Meis1 function in sympathetic neurons . To decipher Meis1 function in sympathetic neurons , we first examined its expression during mouse superior cervical ganglia  formation . By in situ hybridization  , we compared its mRNA expression to that of well-established early markers for sympathetic neurons and their precursors . 5 , whereas noradrenergic differentiation has already been initiated as seen by the onset of Gata3 , Phox2b and TH expressions , sympathetic neurons did not express Meis1 or Klf7 transcripts  . Meis1 mRNA expression was first faintly detected at E12 . 5 , after the onset of noradrenergic specification in most neurons , together with Ntrk1 , Klf7 , and Ret , the receptor for the Gdnf family of ligands  . 5 , all sympathetic neurons , including neurons in the stellate and the ganglionic chain , showed a strong Meis1 mRNA expression  . The other members of the Meis family , Meis2 and Meis3 , were never expressed by these neurons at any of the analyzed stages  . 5 , Meis1 mRNA co localized indifferently with DBH or with the presumptive marker for cholinergic sympathetic neurons Ret  . The relatively late expression of Meis1 after that of Gata3 , Phox2b and TH strongly suggests that Meis1 is not involved in early sympathetic neurons specification . Immunochemistry confirmed the complete loss of Meis1 in sympathetic neurons from 14 . 5 PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mutant embryos ,  . 5 mutant embryos , the SCGs were normally formed and positioned , indicating that the formation , survival and migration of neural crest cells , the precursors of sympathetic neurons , were unaffected . At this stage , Meis1 loss of function did not affect the expression of Gata3 , Hand2 , Phox2b and TH  . Collectively , these results demonstrate that Meis1 function is dissociated from early noradrenergic specification and early diversification of sympathetic neurons . Conversely , the simultaneous temporal expression of Meis1 with Ntrk1 and Klf7 led us to hypothesize that Meis1 is involved in later aspects of sympathetic neurons development during the period of target-field innervation and/or survival . Meis1 expression in sympathetic neurons is incompatible with early sympathetic specification but coincides with target-field innervation onset . ISH for Meis1 , Gata3 and Klf7 , and immunochemistry for Phox2b and TH in WT E11 . 5 embryonic SCGs . ISH for Meis1 , Hand2 , Gata3 and Klf7 and immunochemistry for Phox2b , TH , Ntrk1 and Ret in WT E12 . 5 embryonic SCGs . White arrows point at Ntrk1 or Ret neurons . ISH for Gata3 and Hand2 and immunochemistry for Phox2b and TH on WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP E14 . 5 embryonic SCGs . White and black dotted lines delineate the SCGs . Meis1 is the only member of the Meis family to be expressed by embryonic sympathetic neurons and is indifferently expressed by noradrenergic and cholinergic sympathetic neurons . In situ hybridization  for Meis1 , Meis2 and Meis3 on E11 . 5 WT embryos showed that Meis1 is the only member of the family to be expressed in sympathetic ganglia . Black dashed lines encircles the SCGs . Double ISH for Meis1  with Dopamine β-Hydroxylase  or with Ret  indicated that both major subpopulations  of sympathetic neurons expressed Meis1 at E16 . White arrowheads point at double positive neurons . White dotted lines encircle the SCGs . Immunochemistry for Phox2b and Meis1 on SCGs from E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos confirmed the loss of Meis1 protein at these stages . 008 To test this hypothesis , we first investigated sympathetic neurons survival and followed the embryonic development of the SCGs in E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . In WT embryos , there was a 1 . 8 fold increase in the volume of the SCGs between E14 . In PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos , we measured a slight reduction of 25% and a dramatic reduction of 60% in the volume of the ganglia at E16 . We then investigated if the decreased volume of the SCGs in mutant embryos was due to neuronal apoptosis . We found an increase of Casp3+ apoptotic sympathetic neurons in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP compared to WT at both E14 . 5 WT embryos , we counted 1 . 6% of Casp3+ neurons per section respectively , whereas in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP , we found 5 . 1% of Casp3+ sympathetic neurons per section at E14 . To further confirm that the neuronal loss was due to apoptosis , we generated triple PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/-mutant embryos . As expected , we found that inactivating the pro-apoptotic gene Bax in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice rescued sympathetic neurons from apoptosis and there was no significant difference in the number of Phox2b+ neurons of the SCGs of newborn P0 Bax-/-vs PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- mice  . Of note , Phox2b expression was not altered in Meis1 deficient sympathetic neurons rescued from apoptosis at this stage , further confirming that Meis1 functions are independent of noradrenergic specification . Finally , because early sympathetic neurons continue to divide up to perinatal stages , and to exclude the contribution of this mechanism to the decrease in ganglia size , we evaluated their proliferation and demonstrated that the proliferative rates were not affected at any of the analyzed stages in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos  . Exacerbated neuronal apoptosis in Meis1 mutant sympathetic neurons . ISH for Gata3 on SCGs of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E14 . Quantification of the volume of the SCGs in WT vs PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice at E14 . Representative images of the SCGs visualized by immunochemistry for activated Caspase-3  and TH at E16 . 5 in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . Arrows point at Casp3+/TH+ neurons . Quantification of the average number of Casp3+/TH+ neurons per section in the SCGs of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E14 . Immunochemistry for Phox2b and TH on SCGs of P0 WT , Bax-/- , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- newborn pups , and quantification of the number of Phox2b+ neurons per SCG in P0 WT , Bax-/- , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and Bax-/-::PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . Survival of glial progenitor cells is not affected following Meis1 inactivation . ISH for Sox10 and immunochemistry for Sox2 and Casp3 on E14 . 5 SCGs from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Immunochemistry for Sox2 and Phox2b on E14 . 5 SCGs showed that their expressions are mutually exclusive . Immunochemistry for Sox2 or TH with Casp3 showed that Casp3 immunoreactivity was present in TH+ neurons but never in Sox2+ glial progenitor cells . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCGs . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCGs . Meis1 inactivation does not affect early proliferation of sympathetic neurons . 5 SCGs from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos showed no difference between the two genotypes . Quantification of the number of Phox2b+ neurons that incorporated EdU per section in SCGs from E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos showed that about 18 to 22% of sympathetic neurons divided within the two last hours . No significant difference was observed between WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . 011 In summary , the loss of SCG neurons in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice occurs in two phases , an early phase  with a moderate increase of neuronal apoptosis and a small variation in the volume of the SCGs , a later phase  with a dramatic reduction in the volume of the SCGs . Proximal axonal growth was unaffected as seen by the presence of sympathetic nerves exiting the SCGs in both E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos  . 5 to visualize sympathetic innervation within target organs . 5+/TH- fibers representing non-sympathetic peripheral innervation was similar in WT and mutant embryos , we found a dramatic decrease in PGP9 . 5+/TH+ sympathetic fibers in the heart of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP compared to WT embryos  . Measurements revealed a 77 ± 12% reduction in TH+ sympathetic innervation density of the heart in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos compared to WT  . Similarly , we measured a marked reduction in TH+ sympathetic innervation densities of the salivary glands , the vomeronasal organ , the tongue and the trachea of mutant embryos  . In addition , preventing apoptosis of sympathetic neurons lacking Meis1 by Bax mutation did not rescue the defects in sympathetic cardiac innervation at P0  . These results demonstrated that in the absence of Meis1 , sympathetic target-field innervation , but not proximal axonal growth , is compromised . Lack of terminal sympathetic target-field innervation in Meis1 mutant embryos . Immunochemistry for TH on SCGs from E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos showing that proximal axonal growth of sympathetic neurons is not affected . Sy Nerve = sympathetic nerve . Visualization of TH+ sympathetic fibers and others PGP9 . 5+/TH- peripheral neurons projections in the heart of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E16 . Arrows point at TH+ sympathetic fibers and arrowheads point at PGP9 . 5+/TH- nerves . Quantification of the density of TH+/PGP9 . 5+ sympathetic and TH-/PGP9 . 5+ sensory fibers on heart sections of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E16 . Representative images and quantification of TH+ sympathetic fibers in the heart of Bax-/- and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- newborn pups . Sympathetic target-field innervation of peripheral organs is compromised following Meis1 loss of function . Visualization of TH+ sympathetic fibers  and others PGP9 . 5+/TH- peripheral nervous projections  by immunochemistry in the salivary glands  and the trachea  of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E16 . Only the TH+ sympathetic innervation is affected in the mutant . Arrows point at TH+ sympathetic fibers and arrowheads point at PGP9 . 5+/TH- nerves . Visualization by immunochemistry of TH+ sympathetic fibers  in the tongue and the vomeronasal organ of PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E16 . Arrows point at TH+ sympathetic fibers . Quantification of the density of TH+ sympathetic fibers on sections of the salivary glands , the vomeronasal organ , the tongue and the trachea in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos at E16 . 5 revealed that SCG neurons failed to establish contact with their peripheral targets during embryogenesis . 013 According to the neurotrophic hypothesis , most sympathetic neurons depend on retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling for target-field innervation and survival . Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling is necessary for the maintenance of Ntrk1 expression and accumulation of phosphorylated CREB  within neuronal nuclei  . Thus , defects in retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling would result in altered target-field innervation without proximal growth defects and a massive neuronal apoptosis concomitant to naturally occurring cell-death , a phenotype that resembles the phenotype we observed during the second phase of neuronal loss in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . To establish a possible link between Meis1 and Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling , we performed ISH and immunochemistry for Ntrk1 . We found a reduction of 73 ± 11% and of 73 ± 6% in Ntrk1 ISH and immunofluorescence signal intensities respectively in the SCGs of E16 . 5 PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP compared to WT  . In contrast , no change in Ntrk1 mRNA levels was observed at E14 . The expression levels of the other receptors for the neurotrophins family Ntrk2 , Ntrk3 and Ngfr were identical in E16 . 5 WT and mutant SCGs  . Together these results show that Meis1 is necessary for the maintenance of Ntrk1 expression but not its induction . 5 sympathetic neurons of mutant embryos  . To confirm that apoptosis was not responsible for the decrease in Klf7 and Ntrk1 expressions , similar staining were conducted on sections from PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- and Bax-/- P0 newborn mice , and we found a comparable decrease of 91 ± 4% in Ntrk1 expression  . Klf7 expression also was not maintained in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- newborn mice  . As a readout of retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling , we investigated pCREB immunoreactivity in sympathetic neurons nuclei . 5 , most of the mutant neurons failed to express pCREB  and by E16 . 5 , pCREB signal intensity was largely reduced in all the nuclei of mutant neurons compared to WT  , indicating that downstream signaling of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling is perturbed following Meis1 inactivation . A possible explanation of these defects could be that Meis1 itself is a downstream effector of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling . To test this hypothesis , we performed immunochemistry for Meis1 on SCGs from E17 . 5 Ngf-/- embryos . We found that Meis1 expression was unchanged when Ngf is inactivated  , indicating that it is not a downstream effector of Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling . Target-field innervation signaling pathways in Meis1-inactivated sympathetic neurons . ISH for the neurotrophins high affinity receptor Ntrk1 in E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCGs . Quantification of Ntrk1 ISH signal intensity in E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCGs . Immunochemistry for TH and Ntrk1 on E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . White dotted lines encircle the SCGs . Quantification of the intensity of immuno-fluorescence for Ntrk1 in the SCGs of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Representative images of ISH for Klf7 on SCGs of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos and on SCGs of P0 Bax-/- and PLATCRE::Bax-/-::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . Quantification of Klf7 ISH signal intensity in SCGs of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Immunochemistry for TH and Ntrk1 on P0 Bax-/- and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- mice . Quantification of the intensity of Ntrk1 immuno-fluorescence in the SCGs of P0 Bax-/- and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP::Bax-/- mice . Immunochemistry for pCREB and TH on E14 . 5 SCGs from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos and quantification of the number of pCREB+ nuclei . Immunochemistry for pCREB and TH on E16 . 5 SCGs from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos and quantification of pCREB signal intensity in neuronal nuclei . Meis1 loss of function does not interfere with the expression of other neurotrophins receptors than Ntrk1 and its expression is not dependent on Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling . ISH for Ntrk2 and Ntrk3 , the high-affinity receptors for Ntf2 and Ntf3 respectively and for Ngfr , the low affinity receptor for all members of the neurotrophins family on WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCGs in E16 . Whereas Ntrk3 and Ngfr mRNAs are expressed by sympathetic neurons at this stage , Ntrk2 is not detected . No variation in the expression of Ntrk3 or Ngfr mRNAs could be detected in PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP vs WT embryos . Dashed black lines delineate the SCGs . Immunochemistry for Meis1 on SCGs from E17 . 5 WT and Ngf-/- embryos showed that Meis1 expression does not depend on Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling . 015 All together , these results demonstrate that Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling is altered following Meis1 inactivation . The decreased expression of Ntrk1 at E16 . 5 suggests that during the early and late phases of cell loss in Meis1 mutants , different signaling pathways are affected . In addition , whereas the rescue of Meis1 inactivated neurons in a Bax null-context support the involvement of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling in the late phase of neuronal apoptosis , the loss of innervation in the trachea clearly indicates that target-derived Ngf is not responsible alone , and that a more general mechanism is affected . One hypothesis is that Meis1 controls the expression of effector genes that are functionally related to retrograde vesicular transport . Because Meis1 target genes in the nervous system are largely unidentified and to identify such effector genes , we performed a ChIP-seq analysis on SCGs of E16 . 5 WT embryos . We also found that many of the Meis1 potential target genes have been documented to participate in heart functions or pathologies  . To see if such genes were transcriptionally regulated by Meis1 , we selected a number of them for deeper analysis by ISH in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . 5 Meis1 mutants embryos  . 5 mutant embryos compared to WT  . Because endocytosis and retrograde transport-mediated survival and distal axonal growth are hallmarks of embryonic peripheral neurons and because Syt1 and Dst physically interact with clathrin , we investigated whether such processes were altered following Meis1 loss of function . 5 PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos revealed a dramatic decrease in clathrin-positive structures in the sympathetic axons innervating the heart , as well as in the cell bodies of sympathetic neurons  , suggesting perturbation in the traffic of endosomal cargoes . Meis1 target genes encode proteins necessary for early endosomes formation . ISH for Syt1 on SCGs of E14 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Immunochemistry for clathrin and TH on SCGs of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Representative images and quantification of immunochemistry for clathrin and TH on the sympathetic nerves within the heart of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Immunochemistry for clathrin , TH , Syp1 and Rab5 and overexpression of a Rab5-GFP construct in cultured explants of SCGs from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Quantification of the numbers of Rab5 , Rab5-GFP and clathrin+ cargoes in cultured explants of SCGs . Dotted lines encircle the SCGs . Meis1 target genes in embryonic sympathetic neurons . To identify Meis1 target genes , a ChIP-seq assay was conducted on E16 . 5 WT SCGs . Bibliographical-based classification of Meis1 potential target genes . Bibliographical search for each identified Mei1 potential target genes revealed a strong enrichment in genes involved in synapse formation , function and architecture  , in target-field innervation  and/or cardiac functions and/or pathologies  . Bibliographical classification of Meis1 potential target genes according to their function in endocytosis , exocytosis and vesicles transport . Bibliographical classification of Meis1 potential target genes . Diagram representing , among all identified Meis1 potential target genes , the percentage of genes with known functions in synapse machinery and target-field innervation . ISH for some of the Meis1 target genes identified by ChIP-seq and involved in cargoes formation , fusion or trafficking including Dst , Lnp , Adam19 and Nbea on SCGs of E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos illustrating the deregulation of their mRNAs expressions in the mutants . Dotted lines encircle the SCGs . Analysis of endocytic ultrastructures in sympathetic mutant fibers . Representative electron microscopy images of sympathetic nerves exiting the SCG dissected from E16 . 5 WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Note that WT axons contain more endocytic structures  than mutant axons . Quantification of the number of endocytic structure per area in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP axons section , and ratio between the area of endocytic structures and the area of axons in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP nerves section . 021 To better discriminate vesicular staining in sympathetic axons , we cultured SCGs explants from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP E16 . 5 embryos . In vitro , axonal extension was not statistically different in sympathetic neurons from PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP and WT embryos  , confirming that proximal axonal growth is not affected by Meis1 inactivation . In these cultures , immunochemical analysis demonstrated a strong reduction in the numbers of clathrin+ , Synaptophysin-1+  and Rab5+ cargoes in Meis1-inactivated sympathetic axons compared to WT  . To further investigate the traffic of endosomal cargoes , time-lapse imaging was performed on SCGs cultured from WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP E16 . 5 embryos . Overexpressing a Rab5-GFP construct in mutant neurons did not rescue the number of Rab5+ endosomes , suggesting that the loss of Rab5 immunoreactivity is due to a loss of endosomal structures rather than a loss of Rab5 protein expression  . 5 sympathetic nerves by transmission electron microscopy  showed that the number and the surface area occupied by endocytic structures per axon section were reduced in mutant nerves  . Time-lapse analysis on SCGs explants indicates that the percentages of motile , including moving and oscillating , Rab5-GFP+ endosomes were dramatically reduced in mutant neurons , whereas the percentage of pausing Rab5+ cargoes were accordingly increased  . In addition , the velocity of both anterograde and retrograde Rab5-GFP+ endosomes was reduced in mutant neurons  . Altogether , these results demonstrated that in the sympathetic nervous system , part of the transcriptional program mediated by Meis1 is necessary for Rab5+ endocytic structures formation and traffic . Meis1 is necessary for early endosomes trafficking . Camera lucida of TH-immunochemistry and quantification of neurites length on SCGs explants form WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos . Individual frames and corresponding kymograph of a 2 min time lapse video showing the movement of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes in WT  and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP  cultured SCGs explants . Analysis of the percentage of the number of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes that are pausing , moving or oscillating in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP cultured SCGs explants . Measure of the velocity of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes that are moving in WT and mutant conditions . Measure of the velocity of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes that are moving retrogradely and anterogradely in WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP cultured SCGs explants . Traffic of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes in WT neurons . Representative videos showing 2 min acquisition of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes trafficking in the axons of cultured WT sympathetic neurons . Impaired traffic of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes in Meis1 inactivated neurons . Representative videos showing 2 min acquisition of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes trafficking in the axons of cultured PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP sympathetic neurons . Traffic of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes in WT neurons . Representative videos showing 2 min acquisition of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes trafficking in the axons of cultured WT sympathetic neurons . Impaired traffic of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes in Meis1 inactivated neurons . Representative videos showing 2 min acquisition of Rab5-GFP+ endosomes trafficking in the axons of cultured PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP sympathetic neurons . 026 In this work , we demonstrated that genetic inactivation of Meis1 in rodent results in an imbalanced sympatho-vagal regulation of heart functions leading to conduction defects , chronotropic incompetence and premature SCD . In addition , we demonstrated that Meis1 acts independently of the well-studied network of transcription factors governing early specification of sympathetic neurons to orchestrate later phases of neuronal differentiation . Its inactivation results in defects of distal innervation and progressive neuronal apoptosis . Identification of Meis1 effector genes revealed a large number of genes involved in endosomal and clathrin-coated cargoes formation and fusion , as well as cytoskeletal proteins participating in their anchoring and transport . Accordingly , loss of Meis1 function impairs Rab5+ endosomes formation and trafficking . For instance , studies in mice and humans have revealed the implication of Sema3a-mediated sympathetic axonal guidance and patterning in the development of ventricular tachycardia and SCD  . Here , we demonstrated that Meis1 inactivation results at adult stages in a persistent and spontaneous bradycardia , blocks of conduction and severe sinus arrests independently of any cardiac malformation . The situation irreversibly deteriorated in conditions requiring sympathetic activation to restore cardiac homeostasis such as drug administration or the recuperation period following physical activity , thus demonstrating the complete chronotropic incompetence of these mice . Thus , a failure in sympathetic activation during this phase leads to unexpected and sudden death . Similar to our results , in these dogs , the sympathetic innervation is defective . 5 Meis1-/- embryos has revealed ventricular septal defect and an overriding aorta in both right and left ventricles  . In our study , PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP embryos did not present such gross structural defects as evidenced by histologic and echocardiographic measure of several parameters . Observation of the septum in the long and short axis and functional evaluation of the outflow did not reveal any differences between WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice . In particular , a defect in the septum of adult PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP mice would have resulted in dissimilar measures of systolic and diastolic performances due to hemodynamic and rigidity variations . Nevertheless , a septal defect was present when the Meis1LoxP/LoxP strain was crossed with another strain well-known to recombine in neural crest derivatives , the Wnt1CRE strain , confirming the previously reported function of Meis1 in cardiac neural crest  . Another explanation could be a lower recombination efficiency of the PLATCRE strain specifically in the cardiac neural crest lineage . demonstrating Meis1 function in the regulation of neonatal cardiomyocytes mitosis especially following myocardial infarction  . However , cardiac functions were not affected following specific Meis1 inactivation or overexpression in cardiomyocytes  . Finally , because the Meis family participates in cardiogenesis  and has been associated with SCD by independent GWA studies  , it is tempting to speculate that Meis1 mutations in humans would result in heart dysfunctions due to cardiac malformations and/or regeneration , sympatho-vagal deregulation of cardiac rhythmicity , or a combination of dysfunctions affecting both compartments . The onset of Meis1 expression after the early noradrenergic specification transcription factors and noradrenergic markers together with the unaltered expression of Gata3 , Phox2b , Hand2 and TH at E14 . 5 following Meis1 inactivation demonstrated that Meis1 acts independently of the pathways regulating early sympathetic neurons specification . Accordingly , Phox2b expression remained unchanged at later embryonic stages and at P0 in a double Meis1::Bax null context . These findings were confirmed by the normal formation of the sympathetic ganglia up to E14 . 5 in Meis1 mutants , whereas in Ascl1 , Phox2b , Hand2 or Gata3 null mutants , early sympathetic neurons lose TH and DBH expression , fail to proliferate and to coalesce in a ganglion and precociously die upon arrival in the sympathetic anlage  . In Drosophila , inactivation of Homothorax  , the ortholog of Meis1 , leads to neuronal and dendritic patterning defect in the PNS  . We propose that the regulation of the expression of genes involved in early endosomes formation and transport by Meis1 is a means of coordinating target-field innervation and survival . Accordingly , our identification of Meis1 effector genes highlighted numerous key genes for vesicles formation , fusion and transport , thus providing support for a coordinated action of Meis1 in retrograde dependent target-field innervation and neuronal survival . 5 trunk mouse embryos , ontology analysis of potential Meis1 target genes identified among the most enriched Meis1 bound sequences , genes involved in nervous system development , axonal guidance and synapse organization  . We therefore conclude that at least part of the transcriptional program governed by Meis1 influences endocytosis and retrograde transport . 5 embryos , a time when retrograde transport is critical for neuronal survival and target-field innervation , that clathrin immunoreactivity is virtually absent from Meis1 inactivated sympathetic neurons . In sympathetic neurons growing from cultured SCGs explants , the numbers of Rab5+ , Syp1+ and clathrin+ cargoes were also reduced , and overexpressing Rab5 was unable to rescue the number of Rab5+ endosomes . In addition , time-lapse analysis demonstrated profound alterations in the traffic and velocity of the remaining Rab5+ endosomes , and TEM analysis showed that within sympathetic axons from mutant embryos the number as well as the surface area occupied by endocytic figures is reduced . We thus conclude that the transcriptional program initiated by Meis1 interferes with the retrograde transport of trophic factors as was hypothesized for Hth in Drosophila motor neurons  . Because many organelles and various kind of vesicles use similar transport machinery , the loss of expression of universal components such as Syt1 , Syp1 , Clathrin and Rab5 raises the possibility that other mechanisms than Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde transport are affected . Indeed , our result are consistent with a function of Meis1 interfering with the retrograde transport of several trophic factors . In our study , we detected an increased apoptosis of Meis1 inactivated sympathetic neurons at E14 . 5 that did not result in a significant variation in the volume of the SCGs , and at E16 . 5 concomitantly with a significant reduction in the volume of the mutant SCGs . 5 , the volume of the mutant SCGs was massively reduced . 5 coincides with the period of retrograde-signal mediating target-field innervation and survival , early apoptosis at E14 . Similarly , because in Ngf knockout mice , the defects in distal sympathetic innervation does not affect the trachea  , we tentatively conclude that Meis1 inactivation not only impairs Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling but also other retrograde signals important for survival . Among potential retrograde signaling pathways influencing sympathetic neurons survival , members of the Gdnf family of ligands and their receptors play important functions . They participate in various aspects of embryonic sympathetic development including precursors migration , proliferation , axonal growth and neurons survival  . Early sympathetic neurons  express Ret , GFRα1 , 2 and 3  . Artn serves as an intermediate target derived trophic factor for sympathetic neurons  . In Ret mutants , SCGs are mislocated and axonal growth defects are found starting E10 . In Gdnf mutants , there is a 35% reduction in the number of SCG neurons at P0 but earlier embryonic stages have not been investigated  . 5 rat sympathetic neurons  . Whether Gdnf can be retrogradely transported by sympathetic neurons remains controversial . Studies in neonatal and adult sympathetic indicate that Gdnf is not a retrograde survival factor  , whereas others reported in rat embryonic neurons that application of Gdnf to the distal compartment induces axonal growth and survival via a retrograde signaling involving GFRα1  . The expression of Gdnf and Artn in various intermediate and/or final target organs of sympathetic neurons during development  suggests that these factors may be retrogradely transported at least during the embryonic period . It is also possible that other yet unidentified factors use retrograde transport to mediate target-field innervation and survival . We conclude that the dramatic decrease in the number of sympathetic neurons we observed at E18 . Among them , because of its well-established function in target-field innervation and survival , we focused our study on retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 downstream signaling as a proof of impaired retrograde signaling . In addition , the molecular relation between Rab5+ endosomes and neurotrophins retrograde signaling including retrograde Ntrk1/Ngf signaling has been extensively documented  . Indeed , downstream readout of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling i . the nuclear expression of phosphorylated CREB  and the level of Ntrk1 expression confirmed an impairment of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling . This is supported by the decreased number of pCREB+ neurons at E14 . 5 when the first small subset of Ngf responsive sympathetic neurons are observed  , and the decreased nuclear expression of pCREB at E16 . 5 when survival of most sympathetic neurons depends on retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling  . Similarly , because in sympathetic neurons the maintenance of Ntrk1 expression depends on retrogradely transported Ngf and because Klf7 is regulated by Ngf  , the down regulation of Ntrk1 , and possibly Klf7 we report in Meis1 mutant is likely to be a consequence of impaired retrograde signaling of this neurotrophin . However , although the participation of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling in the neuronal loss observed after E16 . 5 is supported by the loss of Ntrk1 expression and by the rescue of Meis1 inactivated sympathetic neurons in a null Bax context at P0 , we have no direct evidence of an Ngf dependent apoptosis . In line with this , although it was initially proposed that the survival effect of retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 signaling was mediated through CREB activation  , specific inactivation of CREB in sympathetic neurons protects against developmentally regulated apoptosis  . Thus , the decrease in pCREB expression in Meis1 mutant cannot explain the neuronal loss . It involves about 5% of TH-positive cells in the SCGs and does not result in a significant volume decrease of the mutant SCGs at this stage . In other mutant mice , apoptosis at this stage has been reported  . 5 embryo  and blocking of HGF signaling or Met inactivation prevent early sympathetic neuroblasts differentiation into neurons from E12 . During this period of development , HGF/Met favors the survival of sympathetic neuroblasts and in Met mutants apoptosis is increased at E14 . 5 in sympathetic neuroblasts but cannot be rescued by Bax elimination  . It is thus possible that Meis1 influences the survival of a small subset of sympathetic neuroblasts by interfering with one of the above pathways . Another explanation could be that a small subset of neurons depends on the retrograde transport of a trophic factor other than Ntrk1 at this stage . 5 whereas the induction of Ntrk1 expression is unaffected . Thus , we cannot exclude that a deregulation of the expression of some of these genes is responsible for the apoptosis in this small subset of neurons . Since the function of Gdnf on survival of early SCG neurons remains unclear , and because some studies detected Gdnf mRNA in embryonic sympathetic neurons  , a potential regulation of its expression by Meis1 could account for the increased apoptosis of this small subset of neurons . To conclude , our results show that Meis1 inactivation induces apoptosis of embryonic sympathetic neurons through different mechanisms: a severe loss of neurons occurring after E16 . 5 in which impaired retrograde trafficking of Ngf/Ntrk1 is a contributing factor together with other target-derived trophic factors , and a weaker apoptosis from E14 . 5 that is independent of Ngf/Ntrk1 retrograde signaling . How Meis1 is regulated in sympathetic neurons ? In our study , we showed that Meis1 is not regulated by Ngf . In several neuronal and non-neuronal tissues , Meis1 expression is differentially modulated by retinoic acid  and bFGF . Mouse embryos treated with high doses of RA show increased levels of Meis1  and in the chick limb bud , RA induces Meis1 expression whereas bFGF reduces it  . During development of striatonigral projection neurons , retinoic acid and FGF are required for positioning the boundaries of Meis1-expressing cells  . Meis1 expression is also induced in differentiated forebrain-derived neural stem cells in the presence of bFGF  . In RA-treated human carcinoma cell line NT2/D1 , a treatment that induces neuronal terminal differentiation , Meis1 is also up regulated  . In agreement with a potential regulation of Meis1 expression by RA during sympathetic neurons development , all RA receptors RARα , RARβ , RARγ and RXR are dynamically expressed  . In chick , a role of RA in sympathetic target field-innervation and neurons survival has been suggested  . RA induces Ntrk1 expression and regulates the onset of Ngf dependence  . At later stages , RA also reduces the survival effect of Gdnf and Neurturin of chick sympathetic neurons by preventing GFRα1 , GFRα2 and Ret expression  . RA treatment of mouse and rat sympathetic neurons prevents Ntrk1 mRNA developmental induction and increases Ntrk3 , Ntrk2 and Ngfr mRNA expression  . Contrary to chick , RA enhances Gdnf and Ntf3 responsiveness of cultured rat sympathetic neurons  . Less is known about the function of FGFs in early sympathetic neurons . 5 mouse sympathetic neurons  , and FGF2 and FGFR1 are expressed in rat postmitotic sympathetic neurons  . bFGF induces a sympathetic neuron phenotype on PC12 cells and promotes neurite outgrowth and survival  . In chromaffin cells , it induces a dependence on Ngf for survival  . Thus , it seems that during sympathetic neurons development , RA and FGFs regulate the responsiveness of sympathetic neurons to multiple neurotrophic factors , which is in agreement with the function of Meis1 we propose . Terminal selector genes for sympathetic neurons unambiguously include Phox2b , Gata3 and Hand2 which the most studied function is to control the expression of TH and DBH , two key enzymes involved in the noradrenergic identity  . Thus , the neuronal phenotypes we report following Meis1 inactivation strikingly resemble the phenotypes reported for Eng mutation in mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons . Since Meis1 is expressed by numerous post-mitotic neurons  , it is likely that the transcriptional program initiated by Meis1 that we reported in sympathetic neurons will be generalized to other class of CNS neurons . Meis1LoxP/LoxP , PLATCRE , and Bax-/- mice were generated as previously described  . The antibodies used are: mouse anti-Meis1  , goat anti-Meis1  , sheep anti-TH  , rabbit anti-PGP9 . For Phox2b and Meis1 immunostaining , an epitope retrieval step was carried out by immersion of the sections for 15 min at 68° in sodium citrate buffer  . To analyze sympathetic neurons proliferation , intraperitoneal injections of 0 . For electron microscopy , SCGs were dissected with their exiting nerve and immersed in a solution of 2 . Ntrk1 , Ntrk2 , Ntrk3 , Ret , DBH , Gata3 , Hand2 , Sox10 probes were published elsewhere  . Meis1 probe was a generous gift from Mark Featherstone  . Ntrk1 , Ntrk2 , Ntrk3 , Ret , DBH , Gata3 , Hand2 , Sox10 probes were published elsewhere  . Meis1 probe was a generous gift from Mark Featherstone  . For the calculation of innervation density , the total TH/PGP9 . The calculation of SCGs volumes , immunochemistry intensities and ISH intensities were measured with the ImageJ software using the 'measure'option . In live imaging experiment , time-lapse acquisition was performed on 6 to 8 different neurons from 3 different WT and PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP SCG explants . Samples were obtained from 3 WT and 2 PLATCRE::Meis1LoxP/LoxP sympathetic nerves . As in humans , the low frequency reflects a complex interaction between sympathetic and parasympathetic ways that modulates heart rate in mice  . The cardiac sympathetic and baroreflex activities were assessed from LF  in the frequency domain . In mice the sympathetic nervous system is one major factor that controls basal heart rate  . Eighteen to 25 SCGs from E16 C57Bl6 embryos were dissected in PBS with protease inhibitors  . Immunoprecipitation was performed overnight at 4°C with 10 µL of beads previously coupled with 10 µL of Meis1/2/3 antibody  or IgG1 isotype control antibody  . The Meis1/2/3 antibody has been previously validated for ChIP experiment or co-immunoprecipitation  . Mice were anesthetized with 1 . 
Although structural and regulatory components required for biofilm formation are known , it is not understood how these essential constituents promote biofilm surface morphology . Finally , we discover feedback between mechanomorphogenesis and biofilm expansion , which shapes the overall biofilm contour . However , the underlying mechanisms that dictate how these biofilm matrix components direct overall morphology are not well-understood . One model focuses on the differential spatial regulation of genes encoding matrix components as the key driver of biofilm morphogenesis  . Another model suggests that localized cell death serves as an outlet for mechanical stresses and thus determines biofilm morphology  . Most recently , theory has been put forward to suggest the possibility that global mechanical instabilities are involved in the development of biofilm morphology  . Here , by combining quantitative imaging , biomaterial characterization , mutant analyses , and mechanical theory , we show that the mismatch between the growing biofilm layer and the non-growing substrate causes mechanical instabilities that enable the biofilm to transition from a flat to a wrinkled film , and subsequently to a partially detached film containing delaminated blisters . The sequential instabilities that the film undergoes , coupled with the generation and annihilation of interfaces , drive the evolution of biofilm topography . Our central hypothesis is that biofilm morphogenesis is driven by mechanical instabilities that arise from the growth mismatch between an expanding biofilm and the non-growing substrate to which it adheres . Indeed , biofilm surface morphology changes with increasing agar concentration: the spacing between the peripheral , radial features is reduced and their amplitudes become more homogeneous  . The biofilm originates as a flat film . If the biofilm were not attached to a substrate , it would grow into a stress-free state to cover a large area  . However , the non-expanding agar substrate constrains biofilm expansion . Indeed , a biofilm growing at an air–liquid interface , not limited or compressed by a substrate , exhibits no surface features  . Alternatively , the film can directly delaminate from the substrate to form ‘blisters’   , leaving the substrate essentially undeformed . According to this mechanomorphogenesis model , we should be able to change the biofilm topography by changing the spatial distribution of the mechanical stress . cholerae biofilms onto the same agar plate and allowed them to collide . Indeed , a large localized blister formed at the collision front where mechanical stress is most concentrated  . Our mechanomorphogenesis model provides an intuitive explanation for the commonly observed biofilm surface pattern of a disordered core surrounded by radial features at the edge  . Soon after the initial expansion of the biofilm , growth occurs primarily at the edge of the biofilm because of nutrient limitation at the center of the biofilm  . At the biofilm center , cell death has been shown to drive pattern formation  . However , in the biofilm periphery , which is the region of focus of the current study , wrinkling and delamination occur with no preceding localized cell death  . During cell proliferation , radial compressive stress is partially relieved by new biomass extending the biofilm boundary  . Therefore , starting from a flat film , a growing biofilm will undergo mechanical instabilities predominantly in the tangential direction , leading to radial wrinkling , and later , to delamination patterns  . To demonstrate that pattern directionality is determined by expansion anisotropy , we changed the biofilm growth geometry by inoculating cells starting from a line so that the biofilm would extend quasi-unidirectionally  . Therefore , wrinkles or blisters occur perpendicular to the biofilm line  . If so , we would expect the wrinkle wavelength to change with the mechanical properties of the biofilm and substrate but to be independent of the growth stage and geometry of the biofilm . To extract the wrinkle wavelength , we imaged the biofilm morphogenesis process over 72 hr and quantified the periodicity of radial stripes  . We note that blisters emerge from wrinkles and that they inherit the wavelength of wrinkles , so we do not distinguish between the two in this analysis . We quantified the number of wrinkles or blisters N as a function of radial distance r from the biofilm center at different times . We conclude that the wavelength of wrinkles or blisters reflects an intrinsic physical property of the biomechanical system . Mechanical instability theory also predicts how the wavelength varies with the stiffness contrast between the biofilm and the substrate . 3 , the substrate is too stiff for the flat-to-wrinkling transition to occur  . To reconcile this discrepancy , we considered that a third soft , intermediate layer could exist between the growing biofilm and the non-growing substrate , which has been shown to allow wrinkling behavior even at low Gf/Gs ratios  . To acquire evidence for an intermediate layer , we employed a capillary peeling method in which biofilms are gently dipped into water and the capillary force peels the biofilm off the substrate without destroying the biofilm or the underlying surface   . Prior to peeling , using reflective confocal microscopy , the total biofilm thickness h was measured . Thus , the corrected biofilm thickness hf was obtained as hf = h – hr . Qualitatively , with a soft intermediate layer , the wrinkling pattern persists even when the substrate becomes stiffer than the biofilm  . We recently measured the biofilm–agar interfacial adhesion energy Γ ~ 5–10 mJ/m2  . 01–1 in the current system , making delamination highly likely to occur during biofilm growth . In the context of the trilayer model , delamination takes place at the weakest interface , which is between the biofilm and the residual layer . To access the wrinkling-to-delamination transition experimentally , we simultaneously imaged the growing biofilm from the top and the side  . Radial wrinkles developed into blisters when growth proceeded beyond ~ 36 hr . At low agar concentrations , large amplitude blisters emerged among small amplitude wrinkles  . At higher agar concentrations , additional wrinkles developed into blisters , although with amplitudes smaller than those on low concentration agar substrates . We verified these findings using optical profiling to capture the full three-dimensional  height information of the entire biofilm  . To peer inside blisters , we imaged cross-sectioned biofilms grown from cells producing fluorescence from mKate2  . At low agar concentration  , only a small fraction of wrinkles were detached from the substrate in the form of blisters  . By contrast , at high agar concentration  , nearly all wrinkles had developed into blisters . Figure 3D quantifies the positive correlation between the percentage of wrinkles that converted to blisters at the biofilm edge and the substrate agar concentration . Blisters form extensively but they are small because they share the overall compression . On soft substrates , Γ* is large , so blisters form only infrequently while the majority of the biofilm remains attached to the substrate . In this case , the isolated blisters concentrate the compressive strain and become larger than those on a stiff substrate . We hypothesized that the locations of blisters on soft substrates are defined by surface defects that trigger local delamination . This hypothesis is consistent with the observed heterogeneous sizes of blisters in biofilms grown on soft substrates . Specifically , we argue that blisters emerge at different times and at different locations in growing biofilms depending on when a surface defect is encountered during biofilm expansion . The different ages of blisters naturally lead to their heterogeneous heights . Indeed , these imperfections dictated the exact locations at which blisters formed as the biofilm expanded . By contrast , on stiff substrates , delamination occurred along the entire biofilm rim , irrespective of the predefined surface imperfections  . We wondered how blister width and height would develop in a living biofilm as the biofilm expands and accumulates strain mismatch . To examine this , we tracked isolated blisters by imaging the rim of the expanding biofilm  . The width of each biofilm blister decreased while its height increased over time until the final width of the blister reached twice that of the thickness of the biofilm  . This final value for the blister width indicates that the two sides of the blister come into contact with one another . Subsequently , blisters continue to develop only in height . Moreover , large blisters suppress nearby wrinkles from delaminating  , presumably because the biofilm and the substrate can slide relative to one another such that a blister captures nearby compressed biofilm material , and in so doing , releases compressive stress in the vicinity . Neighboring blisters tend to merge during late stages of biofilm development  , forming single dark features in the transmission images ( Figure 4C  and Figure 4—figure supplement 1 ) . The sequential biofilm blister dynamics described above involve the generation or annihilation of new or existing interfaces , which have energy penalties or payoffs . cholerae biofilms  . They are: biofilm blister–liquid underneath , γfl ~ 49 mJ/m2; biofilm blister–air above , γfa ~ 30 mJ/m2; and the energy needed to separate the biofilm from the residual layer underneath , Γ ~ 5 mJ/m2  . First , compressive stress leads to delamination of the biofilm from the residual layer , forming a local blister . This step generates an additional high-energy interface between the blister and the liquid underneath it . To eliminate this high-energy interface , the two sides of the inner face of the blister come into contact with each other as the blister grows . Indeed , electron microscopy imaging of the cross-section of a blister shows this to be the case  . After internal contact occurs , the blister can only develop in the vertical direction . However , blister growth enlarges the interface between the biofilm and the air . Subsequent merging of neighboring blisters  eliminates biofilm–air interfaces , and in so doing , lowers the free energy of the entire system . An added benefit to the bacteria stems from these blister dynamics: cells in blisters are less susceptible to the lethal effects of antibiotics that diffuse in from the substrate than are cells residing in the base of the biofilm , presumably because cells in blisters are located further away from the antibiotic source  . If the above interpretations concerning the involvement of interfacial energy in blister development are correct , changing the relative magnitudes of the three interfacial energies should modulate blister dynamics , and , in turn , the global biofilm morphogenesis process . To test this idea , we deleted bap1 and rbmC , which encode proteins that are responsible for cell-surface interactions and biofilm hydrophobicity  . Rather than forming isolated blisters , when formed on soft agar substrates , the Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm exhibits a star-shaped morphology with flat regions between the facets of the stars ( Figure 5A  )  . The cross-section of a single facet shows that it consists of a group of congregated blisters ( Figure 5A  ) . Curiously , in contrast to the WT blisters , in the mutant , only the external surfaces of neighboring blisters are in contact with one another , leaving the internal spaces under each blister intact . To rationalize the Δbap1ΔrbmC blister dynamics , we measured the relevant interfacial energies  . The adhesion energy Γ between the Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm and the substrate is below the detection limit , meaning that delamination occurs more easily in the Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm than in the WT biofilm . Indeed , Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm blisters emerge directly from the expanding flat film , skipping the wrinkling state  . Second , the relative order of interfacial energies changes in the mutant: γfl approaches zero whereas γfa is large , consistent with the hydrophilicity of the Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm  . These alterations in interfacial energies have profound consequences for blister dynamics  . Instead of annihilating biofilm–liquid interfaces inside of the blisters , in the mutant , neighboring blisters prefer to collapse against each other , which eliminates the high-energy interface between the biofilm and the air . Indeed , during the development of the mutant biofilm , newly emergent blisters move towards , and ultimately join , existing blister groups  . The triangular shape of each facet in the Δbap1ΔrbmC biofilm is therefore a consequence of the merging of multiple blisters , whose ages and radial lengths decrease from the center to the edge of the aggregate . We wondered whether the emergence of the 3D biofilm surface topography affected biofilm expansion in the growing plane . We hypothesized that the evolution of contours could also be a consequence of blister formation . To quantify the contour undulation , we define the acircularity parameter α = P2/4πA , in which P is the perimeter of the biofilm and A is the area  . For a biofilm growing on soft agar  , there is a sharp increase in α at tc , the time at which the 3D surface morphology forms at the edge  . To show that blisters are required for contour undulations , we tracked α for mutant biofilms lacking the matrix structural polysaccharide   or lacking matrix structural proteins   . In both cases , the biofilm has no surface features and α remains close to 1  . To investigate the coupling between contour undulations and biofilm morphogenesis in the z direction , we followed the time evolution of growing biofilm borders in different geometries  . Visually , the indentations along the contours always correspond to the locations of large blisters . To quantify this finding , we measured the local curvature κ and expansion velocity Vf along the biofilm periphery  . Both κ and Vf are negatively correlated with the positions of blisters . Monitoring the evolution of a single blister and a nearby flat region shows a transient large difference in Vf when the blister initially forms at the edge  , which triggers the local contour indentation . After this transient difference , Vf becomes comparable for boundaries with and without blisters , and the local curvature reaches a steady value , provided that there is no nearby blister  . This explanation for the formation of the biofilm petal shapes suggests that contour undulations require non-homogeneous blister distribution along the biofilm rim and indeed , WT biofilms that are grown on stiff agar  remain nearly circular because they possess regularly and closely spaced blisters  . As additional evidence for the connection between blister formation and boundary undulation , we show that we can control the number and positions of the petals by specifying the positions of the blisters using patterned substrates  . We conclude that the 3D surface topography that arises owing to mechanical instabilities caused by biofilm expansion feeds back to slow down expansion and drive contour evolution . We show here that mechanical instabilities , including wrinkling and delamination , underlie biofilm morphogenesis . Finally , feedback between mechanomorphogenesis and biofilm expansion shapes the overall biofilm contour . Collectively , our findings concerning the connections between a biofilm’s surface morphology and its mechanical and material properties suggest that new genes and/or new compounds that alter biofilm morphology by altering mechanics could be discovered and investigated to address biofilm-related problems . aeruginosa mutants that are incapable of phenazine production  form biofilm topography similar to those that we examined here for V . aeruginosa biofilms . aeruginosa biofilm pattern occurs because cells at the biofilm center display upregulated matrix production  , whereas cells located at the periphery are downregulated for matrix production . cholerae . These examples illustrate how gene regulation and spatially differentiated cell physiology can be coupled to mechanical instability to promote biofilm surface morphologies . Recent theoretical work on bacterial biofilms has considered mechanical instabilities . For example , the thin intermediate residual layer that we discovered here is not accurately considered in biofilm simulations , but is required to explain the wrinkling instability in biofilms  . Future theoretical analyses can now incorporate measured parameters to understand the rich hierarchical dynamics and the history dependence of mechanomorphogenesis , taking into account biofilm viscoelasticity , interfacial energies , and the consequences of sliding and friction between the biofilm and the substrate  . cholerae biofilms . Biofilms of V . The region of the agar substrate containing a biofilm  was removed and transferred to an empty petri dish . agent together with the biofilm . To measure the thickness of the residual layer , agar plates containing biofilms were slowly vertically lowered into water to peel the biofilms from the substrate . The total thickness of the biofilm h and the thickness of the residual layer hr were measured using Leica Map software . Next , line profiles were generated at three different locations spanning the agar surface to the surface of the biofilm or the residual layer . The biofilm thickness hf was obtained by hf = h − hr . Biofilms were grown on 0 . The biofilm samples were sliced with a razor blade to expose blisters , sputter-coated with a 5 nm layer of Pd  , adhered to an upright SEM stub with conductive tape , and imaged with a scanning electron microscope  . Biofilms of V . 6% agar . We separated the biofilm object F from the background . We used the image of each biofilm at t = 12 hr after inoculation to define the center OF for all time points . When mutations affecting biofilm morphology arose , they were manually excluded from the image analysis . To quantify variations in the amplitudes of biofilm morphological features , we extracted the intensity profiles IE  along a circle near the biofilm edge . For contour analyses , we first obtained the biofilm object F from the binarized image . To analyze the side-views of blisters , blister contours were manually extracted with ImageJ software and then smoothed . The baseline of the blister was obtained by averaging the z coordinate of the left and right bottom region of the blister . The blister height H was calculated as the distance between the peak of the blister to the baseline . The width of the blister W was measured at half of the blister height . We adapted a trilayer model from previous work  , and modeled the biofilm system with the following three elastic components: the biofilm  , the residual layer  , and the agar substrate  denoted with subscripts f , r , and s , respectively . The live and dead cell layers are connected to each other , and they were removed together for our mechanical measurements; so in the model , we do not distinguish between the two and we treat them as a single biofilm layer . Biofilm and residual layers were modeled as thin elastic sheets with thickness hf and hr , whereas the agar substrate was modeled as an elastic body with a thickness hs , much larger than that of the other two layers . Therefore , we could neglect potential structural and materials heterogeneities in the biofilm , which exist on a much smaller scale  . In the simulation , the residual layer grows at the same rate as the biofilm layer , while the substrate does not grow  . This growth difference induces a strain mismatch ε between the biofilm/residual layer and the substrate . Following previous studies  , we applied the Föppl-von Kárman equation to the biofilm model . 3 as an average value from the relevant experimental data and fit the model against the experimental data for wavelength versus stiffness contrast between the biofilm and the agar substrate . We used Fg=  for the biofilm and residual layers to describe their 1D growth  in the X1 direction , and we set Fg to be the identity matrix I for the non-growing agar substrate . The critical condition for wrinkling instability was identified as a vertical displacement of the biofilm that surpassed the threshold value  . com/f-chenyi/biofilm-morphogenesis  . 
In this study , we found that epilepsy-provoking seizures increased the low NRSF levels in mature hippocampus several fold yet surprisingly , provoked repression of only a subset  of potential NRSF target genes . Accordingly , the repressed gene-set was rescued when NRSF binding to chromatin was blocked . Unexpectedly , genes selectively repressed by NRSF had mid-range binding frequencies to the repressor , a property that rendered them sensitive to moderate fluctuations of NRSF levels . Genes selectively regulated by NRSF during epileptogenesis coded for ion channels , receptors , and other crucial contributors to neuronal function . Thus , dynamic , selective regulation of NRSF target genes may play a role in influencing neuronal properties in pathological and physiological contexts . Neuronal properties may change because of genetic mutations in crucial neuronal genes  or from insult-related alterations of gene expression that affect the levels and function of their products . Gene expression is dynamically regulated throughout life and influences neuronal phenotype and behavior  . NRSF is highly expressed in non-neuronal tissues where it represses neuronal genes  and has important roles in neurogenesis and neuronal differentation within the brain  . NRSF levels are low in mature hippocampus where ∼600 expressed genes contain NRSEs and are thus potentially regulated by the repressor . Hippocampal NRSF expression increases several-fold following seizures  and following other insults that promote epilepsy  . We found that blocking NRSF function attenuated the epileptic phenotype induced by severe seizures  . However , it is unclear ‘how’ augmented NRSF levels promote selective neuronal phenotypic changes that provoke epilepsy . In this study , we used large-scale transcriptome arrays , qPCR validation , chromatin immunoprecipitation  , and gene set enrichment analysis  to examine the basis of NRSF-dependent gene expression changes during epileptogenesis . Surprisingly , a twofold to threefold increase of NRSF levels , induced by epilepsy-provoking seizures , led to repression of only a subset of potentially regulated genes , and these were rescued by interfering with NRSF function . Unexpectedly , genes found to be regulated by NRSF were characterized by mid-range NRSF-binding probabilities during the naive state . This moderate baseline binding enabled a significant increase of NRSF binding to these genes upon modest increases in NRSF tissue levels . NRSF-regulated hippocampal genes included ion channels , receptors , calcium-related molecules , and other transcription factors that govern neuronal function and plasticity , suggesting that their repression might contribute to the pathogenesis of epilepsy . NRSF mRNA and protein expression in mature hippocampus were increased following long seizures induced by systemic administration of the glutamate receptor agonist , kainic acid   . The direct dependence of increased NRSF expression on network activity  was tested by examining NRSF levels in vitro , using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures , where most potential confounders were excluded . KA provoked seizure-like electrophysiological events in the hippocampal slice  and led a to time-dependent increase of NRSF mRNA and protein levels  . Kainic acid  -seizure-induced increase of NRSF expression . Time-course of NRSF mRNA expression levels following KA-induced seizures , n = 4/group . Representative western blot image of NRSF protein levels in control  animals and animals at 72 hr and 1 week post KA-induced seizures . Quantification of NRSF protein levels using optical density measurements  . In situ hybridization and quantification of NRSF mRNA in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures which had undergone KA-induced seizure-like events . We initially screened the microarray data for candidate genes whose expression was repressed following KA-induced seizures and examined whether these genes contained functional NRSEs . Expression of 12 , 996 genes was detected in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus of which 371  contained NRSE sites  . 470 genes whose expression was significantly repressed by KA-induced seizures were identified by this initial candidate gene analysis that employed routine statistical significance  . Of these , 39  contained NRSF binding sites  . The significant enrichment in the fraction of NRSE-containing genes in the repressed vs total gene population  indicated that NRSF-regulated genes were preferentially repressed by epilepsy-provoking network hyperactivity  . NRSE-containing genes are enriched among hippocampal genes repressed after network activity . Heat map representing genes with repressed mRNA expression levels in two representative samples from hippocampi derived from control  and from hippocampi from KA-seizures-experiencing rats . Relative abundance of NRSF target genes among total detected genes vs those repressed by KA-seizures . 004 Whereas 371 of the detected hippocampal genes contained an NRSE and were therefore potential NRSF targets , only 39 of these were repressed by KA-induced seizures when NRSF levels increased twofold to threefold . To examine if the correlation between NRSF levels and the repression of this subset  of NRSE-containing genes was causal , we employed a decoy oligonucleotide strategy to block NRSF binding to the NRSE sequences of genomic DNA  . We generated oligodeoxynucleotides  comprised of the NRSF binding sequence  , modified their backbone for stability and infused them into the brain . These ODNs acted as ‘decoys’ , binding to cellular NRSF and inhibiting its ability to bind to target genes   . Abrogation of NRSF binding to target genes rescues the majority of NRSE-containing genes repressed by KA-seizures . A schematic illustrating the mechanism of action of NRSF following a seizure-induced increase and the decoy oligodeoxynucleotide  intervention strategy with the expected outcome . A heat map representation of the changes in mRNA expression levels of genes that contain a putative NRSE site that were down-regulated 48 hr after KA-induced seizures . Heat map compares representative samples from two hippocampi , from each of four experimental conditions: 'controls' receiving random ODNs  ; ‘controls’ receiving NRSE ODNs  ; ‘KA-seizures’ , rats sustaining KA induced seizure activity and receiving random ODNs  ; ‘KA-seizures + NRSE-ODN’ , rats sustaining KA-induced seizure activity and receiving NRSE-ODNs  . Independent analysis of gene expression using qPCR . Several genes that were both repressed by seizure activity and rescued by interference with NRSF function were tested  , and results analyzed using two way ANOVA . 005 Consistent with the low baseline levels of NRSF in naive hippocampus , preventing the binding of the repressor to target genes had little effects on the expression of most of the 39 genes  . Of the 39 NRSE-containing genes that were repressed by seizures in the presence of random ODNs ,  the majority  were no longer significantly repressed when NRSF binding to target genes was inhibited  . These microarray data supported the idea that in mature hippocampus a twofold to threefold change in NRSF levels influenced the expression of only a subset of putative NRSF target genes and this repression required binding of NRSF to the chromatin . To examine the validity of the microarray data supporting this observation , we performed qPCR on a subset of genes to confirm both their seizure-induced repression as well as their ‘rescue’ by NRSE-ODN administration  . We next examined the microarray data by performing qPCR analysis of a subset of NRSE-containing genes that were found to be repressed on the array and a second subset of genes whose expression was not altered on the array following KA-seizures  . These qPCR analyses revealed excellent correlation with the microarray and both methods distinguished between the NRSE-containing genes that were or were not repressed by seizures . A selection of NRSE containing genes  whose expression was unchanged according to the microarray following KA-seizures were measured using qPCR to validate the microarray n = 4/group . qPCR measurement of a selection of the NRSE containing genes  whose expression was down-regulated following KA-seizures and rescued by NRSE-ODNs n = 4/group , p*<0 . 006 To probe the basis of the differential regulation of these two gene groups , we compared the binding of NRSF to the repressed and non-repressed genes in both the naive hippocampus and following KA-seizures . Figure 5A depicts the relative binding of NRSF to 13 genes that are presented in the order of increasing NRSF binding in the naive hippocampus . Genes repressed by the seizures are shown in green . Figure 5B shows the relative binding of NRSF to the same genes in hippocampi taken from rats undergoing seizures . For each of these genes , we calculated the increment in NRSF binding after the seizures  relative to the naive state  . As apparent in this figure ,  genes repressed by seizure-induced increases of NRSF levels were those that had a large increment in NRSF binding . Physical binding of NRSF co-varies with tissue levels specifically at genes that are regulated by the repressor . NRSF binding  to selected NRSE-containing genes in naive hippocampus with genes whose expression is repressed by seizure-induced NRSF increase represented in green , genes where NRSF occupancy was low are depicted in white , while genes where NRSF binding was abundant are depicted in black . NRSF occupancy  at the same gene set in the hippocampus 48 hr following KA-induced seizures . Graphical depiction of the changes  in NRSF occupancy at NRSE-containing gene sets comparing occupancy following KA-induced seizures to occupancy in the naive state . Genes whose expression was repressed are represented in green , n = 4–6/group , p*<0 . 007 Specifically , the effects of seizure-induced increase of NRSF levels on NRSF binding to the chromatin correlated with the degree of repressor binding in the naive state: binding of NRSF to certain genes  was modest and did not increase significantly upon seizure-induced increase of NRSF levels  . NRSF binding was very robust at NRSE sites of other genes  , and the degree of binding was relatively independent of NRSF tissue levels  . In contrast , seizure-induced increase of NRSF levels markedly augmented NRSF binding to genes such as Calb1 , Glra2 , Grin2A , Hcn1 , and Kcnc2 , where binding was moderate in the naive hippocampus . The latter set of genes was those preferentially repressed by NRSF in mature hippocampus  . As shown above , only a subset of NRSE-containing genes in mature hippocampus was repressed by seizure-dependent increase of hippocampal NRSF levels and ‘rescued’ when NRSF binding was prevented . Interestingly , this sub-population of putative NRSF target genes had moderate repressor binding in the naive state which increased markedly after seizures . According to the model  , in genes with very low binding to NRSF , a moderate increase of NRSF levels would not alter repressor binding appreciably . Similarly , in genes with high binding frequency to NRSF , NRSEs would likely be occupied even by the low NRSF levels in the naive hippocampus . Increased NRSF levels would be unlikely to augment occupancy or promote suppression of these genes . In contrast , when NRSF binding is ‘mid-range’ , then relatively small fluctuation of NRSF levels would result in major changes of repressor binding and gene repression . A potential ‘dynamic range’ of repressor binding might enable gene regulation by moderate fluctuations of NRSF levels . A graphical representation of our proposed hypothesis based on our observations that only a subset of NRSE-containing genes are functionally repressed by seizure-induced increases in NRSF levels and that these genes appear to have moderate NRSF binding in the naive brain . 008 We sought to refute or support this broad supposition by examining available information about binding frequencies of NRSF to a large gene set . A comprehensive analysis of NRSF binding probabilities has been reported , based on ChIP-sequencing data   . The published binding frequencies were derived from a cell line , and it is likely that several cell- and tissue-specific parameters influence NRSF binding to the chromatin  . Cognizant of these potential caveats , we simply employed the data set to estimate broadly the binding frequencies of NRSE-containing genes to NRSF . We partitioned these putative NRSF target genes into 8 sets  based on their NRSF binding-frequency rank  . We then partitioned  all hippocampal NRSE-containing genes that were detectable in the transcriptome arrays into 8 sets based on their predicted NRSF binding-frequency rank using the Johnson data set . Genes regulated by seizure-dependent changes in NRSF function possess a distinct range of NRSF binding frequencies . Diagram illustrating sets of genes that were binned according to binding frequency based on Johnson et al . Gene sets were numbered in increasing order of their NRSF binding frequencies . Mid-range NRSF-binding frequencies are in green . A binding frequency metric was established for each NRSF-binding gene based on the number of ChIP-Seq reads from published data  . The distribution of  all microarray-detectable NRSF-binding genes was compared to the distribution of  genes regulated by seizure-dependent NRSF changes , that is , those genes significantly repressed by network hyperactivity and rescued by NRSE–ODN treatment . Comparing microarray data from control rats to that of rats experiencing KA-seizures  , using GSEA , illustrates that three gene-sets were significantly enriched in the control rats  and these fell in the mid-frequency category  . 009 We compared the binding frequency distribution of all of the hippocampal NRSE-containing genes to that of the subset of genes that were functionally regulated by NRSF  . In the overall population of NRSE-containing hippocampal genes , binding frequencies ranged from 19 to 5544  . In contrast , NRSF-binding scores of the genes that were functionally regulated by NRSF ranged from 27 to 663  . Whereas the frequency medians of all NRSE-containing hippocampal genes and NRSF-regulated NRSE-containing genes were not significantly different  , the scatter plots and regression-fit histograms demonstrated that the gene population regulated by NRSF in the context of epileptogenesis was more tightly clustered and had distinct distribution properties . 5 in all detected NRSE-containing genes vs 1 . 2 in the regulated genes; Kurtosis was 66 in all of the genes and 0 . 98 in the regulated genes . Notably , whereas NRSF-binding distribution of the total NRSE-containing hippocampal gene population was exceedingly different from normal  , the distribution pattern of the regulated gene population was much closer to normal  . Together , these clustering patterns suggest that the population of NRSF-regulated hippocampal genes is distinct and characterized by a relatively narrow , normally-distributed range of NRSF-binding frequencies . To further test this idea , we analyzed the array data using gene set enrichment analysis   . The expression of three of these ‘bins’  was significantly enriched in the control group  when compared to the levels of enrichment of gene sets composed of random permutations of genes  . Notably , the three significantly enriched gene-sets were not composed of genes with the highest NRSF binding frequency; rather , they consisted of genes between the 37 . In addition , when binding-frequency binned GSEA was used to compare the control group to the KA-seizure group receiving the NRSE–ODN treatment  , the three binned gene sets were no longer significantly different from those in the control group  . Gene set enrichment analysis  curves of hippocampal NRSE-containing genes . These genes have been classified  into eight groups by increasing order of their NRSF binding frequency rank percentile . Each graph shows enrichment plots comparing gene expression in KA-seizures vs controls in the presence of random ODNs . Gene-set enrichment analyses focusing on NRSFDOI: http://dx . 011Gene set nameNESNOM p-valFDR q-valFWER p-valCtrl vs Activity  NRSF   1 . 8710 NRSF   1 . 9870 NRSF   1 . 2940 NRSF   1 . 0160 NRSF   1 . 0210 NRSF   2 . 0000 NRSF   1 . 8600 NRSF   0 . 7200Ctrl vs Activity  NRSF   1 . 6590 NRSF   1 . 6050 NRSF   1 . 3540 NRSF   1 . 1450 NRSF   1 . 1300 NRSF   1 . 0970 NRSF   1 . 8400 NRSF   1 . 5190NRSF is significantly enriched in gene sets with moderate binding probability even after false discovery corrections  , when the control and activity groups are compared  . When the function of NRSF is blocked , that is , when comparison groups are the control and seizure-activity groups both treated with the NRSE-ODN , NRSF target gene-sets the bins  with moderate binding-frequencies are no longer enriched among differentially expressed genes . To better identify genes regulated by moderate fluctuations of NRSF in mature hippocampus , we followed the screen of microarray data for candidate genes with further analyses to control for false discovery  . This approach uncovered genes that were significantly different in the  hippocampi vs the other groups  . Genes that were both repressed by the seizures and ‘rescued’ by blocking NRSF–NRSE interactions encoded primarily molecules that are well-known to contribute to neuronal function and plasticity . Several of these genes encode for transcription factors  , or proteins involved in signaling cascades that might influence downstream gene expression  , suggesting that they might mediate secondary  effects of NRSF . Notably , this NRSF-regulated gene set is crucial in influencing the function of both individual neurons  and neuronal network behavior . Candidate list of seizure-dependent NRSF regulated genesDOI: http://dx . For inclusion in the initial list of candidate genes for NRSF regulation , genes were considered significantly repressed if their expression was reduced by more than 20% after KA-induced seizures  . Genes considered ‘rescued’ were significantly repressed after seizures but not significantly repressed after ODN infusions  . This candidate gene approach was followed by measures to correct for FDR  . *genes  with expression reduced by > 20% after KA-induced activity , and rescued by NRSF ODN; p < 0 . †genes  found with ANOVA , Benjamini–Hochberg FDR <0 . The key findings of these studies are:  NRSF contributes to epileptogenesis by regulating a group of genes that critically influence neuronal function;  whereas hundreds of hippocampal genes are potential NRSF targets because they contain NRSEs , only a few dozen are actually repressed by the transcription factor in the context of seizure-induced epilepsy as evident from their rescue when the function of NRSF is blocked;  the basis of the selective regulation of a subset of NRSE-containing genes includes the mid-range binding frequencies of these genes to the repressor , so that moderate fluctuations in NRSF levels influence the degree of their binding to the repressor . NRSF is a transcription factor with protean effects . Whereas much is known about the role of this molecule in non-neuronal tissues and in neuronal differentiation , much less information is available about the function of NRSF in mature brain  . More recently , a protective role of NRSF has been proposed in aging and dementia  . In addition , NRSF may be involved in neurological disorders including Huntington disease  and stroke  . The contribution of NRSF to epilepsy and its development  is currently the focus of intense study  . We previously found that interfering with NRSF binding to the chromatin-attenuated epileptogenesis . found that the conditional deletion of NRSF in the forebrain resulted in increased susceptibility to kindling and enhanced mossy fiber sprouting  . Complete deletion of NRSF in ‘naive’ neurons may induce large cascades of transcriptional changes rendering neurons more susceptible to seizures . In contrast , acute disruption of NRSF function ‘after’ an epilepsy-provoking insult , as performed in our current and previous studies , provides a more direct approach to elucidate the epileptogenic functions of NRSF because it does not interfere with NRSF function prior to the epilepsy-inducing insult . This point is important also because the role of NRSF in mature neurons is not fully understood , as discussed above . However , whereas it was clear that NRSF likely regulated numerous additional genes that are involved in the epileptogenic process , the identity of these genes was unclear . In this study , we used large-scale transcriptome arrays and found that NRSE-containing genes were enriched among seizure-suppressed genes and that the majority of these genes were restored to control levels after treatment with decoy NRSE–ODNs . The fact that preventing the repression of  these genes led to attenuation of epilepsy strongly supports a role for these genes in the transformation of normal neurons  into epileptic ones . Whereas NRSF-mediated repression might theoretically involve hundreds of hippocampal NRSE-containing genes , it was intriguing to discover that in fact only a small subset of detected NRSE-containing genes were repressed by seizures . Most were rescued by blocking NRSF function—as evident using a differential array that included control and insult groups as well as groups where NRSF function was blocked—thus ascertaining that genes that are repressed during epileptogenesis are indeed repressed by the augmented levels of endogenous NRSF . To our knowledge this is the first study demonstrating the specificity of NRSF-mediated gene regulation in mature hippocampus in vivo . What might be the basis for the apparent selectivity of NRSF repression of only a minority of putative target genes ? The binding of NRSF to a gene is required  for its repression . A number of mechanisms may influence both the degree of NRSF binding as well as the degree of its repressive effect on genes . Other important mechanisms include the interaction of NRSF with co-factors  , as well as additional , still enigmatic effects of the chromatin environment of individual genes  , which might be influenced by ‘super-enhancers’  . Here , we examined the binding of NRSF to hippocampal genes before and after an epilepsy-provoking insult and found significant increment in genes that were repressed by the factor . This suggested a correlation between repressor occupancy and gene repression  . To our surprise , basal binding of NRSF in regulated hippocampal genes was moderate . By contrast , most non-regulated genes had either high or low NRSF occupancy in naive hippocampus , with little change after an insult that augmented NRSF levels twofold to threefold . We examined our finding in mature hippocampus by comparing the binding-frequency distribution found in hippocampus to a larger set of NRSE target genes as determined by ChIP-Seq analysis  . Whereas many factors , as discussed above , may lead to different NRSF binding in cell lines and hippocampus , it was encouraging to find that our estimates for the relative mid-range binding of regulated genes among those expressed in hippocampus held when superimposed on a large NRSE-containing gene set  . Traditionally , the focus of studies on gene–repressor interaction has been on genes with the strongest binding probability  . However , the genes with the strongest binding for NRSF would likely be constitutively bound to—and suppressed by—NRSF . These genes are unlikely to respond to moderate changes in NRSF levels . Rather , relatively modest seizure-induced changes in the tissue levels of NRSF regulate a subset of NRSE-containing genes that fall within a moderate ‘dynamic range’ of NRSF binding probabilities . This concept may be important for other forms of insult-induced plasticity in the mature brain including ischemia  , peripheral nerve injury  , and seizure-induced epilepsy  where changes in NRSF levels are moderate . These findings support a role of NRSF in mature brain that is distinct from its role in development , when NRSF contributes to neuronal identity by repressing neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues  , and specifies neuronal fate  . In that context , large changes in the expression of NRSF take place: NRSF levels plunge during neuronal differentiation  , de-repressing genes that contribute to neuronal identity  . Remarkably , the gene set regulated by moderate changes in NRSF expression in the current study consisted of molecules which are extremely important for neuronal function and plasticity not only during development  , but also in the adult brain  . In summary , insult-induced increases of NRSF levels and activity contribute to epileptogenesis via NRSF-mediated repression of a group of genes that critically influence neuronal function . Of the hundreds of NRSE-containing hippocampal genes only a subset are repressed by the transcription factor in the context of seizure-induced epilepsy as evident from their rescue when the function of NRSF is blocked . The basis of the selective regulation of a subset of NRSE-containing genes includes their mid-range binding frequencies to NRSF , so that moderate fluctuations in NRSF levels influence the degree of their binding . Seizure-like activity was induced after 3 days in vitro by incubating cultures for 3 hr in a medium containing KA  . This seizure-like activity was halted by changing the medium after 3 hr  . Seizures were observed and scored using the Racine scale  . Semi-quantitative analysis of NRSF mRNA levels were accomplished using in situ hybridization   using S35-cRNA probes and slide-mounted frozen sections  with the most stringent wash at 0 . Membranes were probed with anti-Actin  , anti-NRSF  , in PBS with 5% non-fat milk . The CA1 region was obtained 48 hr after SE from rats of the following groups: ctrl + random ODN  , ctrl + NRSE–ODN  , KA-seizures + NRSE–ODN  , and KA-seizures + random ODN  . Expression BeadChips for transcriptome analysis of over 22 , 000 genes . Samples were then centrifuged for 45 min at 15 , 000 rpm , and the supernatant was collected and added to tubes containing 1 ml of magnetic DynaBeads  pre-incubated with 5 µg NRSF antibody/sample or IgG control for 24 hr . NRSF occupancy at NRSE sites was normalized to IgG binding to the DNA and calculated as a percentage of total input . Gene set enrichment analysis   was employed to compare the KA-seizures + NRSE–ODN and KA-seizures + random ODN groups to the ctrl + random ODN and ctrl + NRSE–ODN groups using the entire array data set  . All genes were then ranked and an enrichment score  for each gene set was generated for different gene set collections in the Broad Institute's Molecular Signatures Database  . Subsets of NRSF-binding genes from ChIP-Sequencing data previously obtained were populated according to binding affinity rank  . This was important in the context of the moderate seizure-dependent changes of NRSF expression in mature hippocampus where amplified Type II error may result in early rejection of biologically important candidate genes . Genes were considered significantly repressed if they had a greater than 20% reduction in expression at a p-value less than 0 . Genes were designated as ‘NRSE-containing’ based on NRSF ChIP-sequencing data from previous studies  . To avoid Type I error in the context of moderate changes of gene repression in mature hippocampus  , we set the FDR at 0 . did the NRSE ODN affect the result ? did the long seizures affect the result ? ChIP data were analyzed by normalizing NRSF immunoprecipitation to IgG and calculating as a percentage of total input . 
While long viewed as essentially equivalent neuron classes , emerging evidence shows that MCs and TCs exhibit distinct activity in vivo  , suggesting that MCs and TCs encode complementary aspects of olfactory information . For instance , TCs respond to lower odor concentrations than MCs  , suggesting that TCs are involved in processing near-threshold stimuli . Consistent with this notion of parallel pathways , MCs and TCs project their axons to many non-overlapping regions  . For instance , TCs are more intrinsically excitable and receive stronger OSN-mediated excitation than MCs  . Whether other elements of the olfactory bulb circuit account for differences in MC vs . TC odor-evoked activity is unknown . In the olfactory bulb , lateral inhibition occurs between pairs of MCs or TCs via reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses with inhibitory granule cells   . Previously , we have shown that lateral inhibition most strongly affects MCs firing at intermediate rates because coincident input is required for the activation of GCs  . This activity-dependent regulation of the strength of lateral inhibition onto MCs decorrelates MC responses to similar input more effectively than subtractive or divisive forms of inhibition  . Lateral inhibition onto TCs is largely unexplored , but the marked differences in MC and TC odor-evoked activity suggest that lateral inhibition onto TCs may operate differently . Here , we show that optogenetic activation of a single , gene-targeted glomerulus elicits larger and more asynchronous lateral inhibitory currents in nearby MCs than in TCs . Moreover , this same photostimulation paradigm inhibits spiking differently in MCs and TCs . While MCs are affected by lateral inhibition at intermediate firing rates  , TCs are affected when firing at low firing rates  . This difference arises , in part , due to differential recruitment of morphologically distinct classes of GCs by MCs and TCs . Finally , we use simulations to explore how these circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs influence odor discrimination . Specifically , the combination of activity-dependent lateral inhibition at both low and intermediate rates enables TCs and MCs to collectively encode odors better than either population alone and supports novel computations that are unlikely to occur with a single neuron type . To analyze lateral inhibition , we optically activated M72-expressing OSN axons in acute slices from M72-ChR2-YFP mice  while recording from MCs or TCs innervating nearby glomeruli  . MCs and TCs showed reliable lateral inhibition following a 10 ms light pulse  , and similar proportions of MCs  and TCs  received lateral inhibitory currents . The MCs and TCs recorded were similar distances from the M72 glomerulus , and lateral inhibition did not vary within this limited range of distances in either MCs or TCs  . To examine early and late components of the inhibitory responses onto MCs and TCs , we separated early  and late  components of the inhibitory currents . The peak amplitude of early inhibition was larger in MCs than in TCs  , while the charge transferred of early phase inhibition was not significantly different  . Additionally , both the peak amplitude and charge transferred of late phase inhibition  was significantly larger in MCs than in TCs . MCs also receive a smaller proportion of total inhibition during the early phase than TCs , indicating that inhibition is more asynchronous onto MCs than onto TCs . Collectively , these results demonstrate that lateral inhibitory currents are larger and more asynchronous onto MCs than onto TCs . MCs receive stronger lateral inhibition than TCs . Schematic and example of recording from a TC that projects to a glomerulus near the M72 glomerulus to measure lateral inhibition in M72-ChR2-YFP mice  . Light stimulation evoked reliable inhibitory currents in recorded TC  that are abolished by gabazine  but did not evoke excitatory currents  . Examples of average inhibitory currents in 2 MCs and 2 TCs . The peak amplitude was significantly larger in MCs  than in TC  during both the early and late phases of inhibition . Charge transferred was significantly larger in MCs than TCs during the late phase only . MCs and TC recorded sequentially in the same slice  show similar differences in inhibition . Analogous experiment measuring lateral inhibition in OMP-ChR2-YFP mice before and after limiting GC-mediated inhibition by bath applying APV and LY36785 . Similar differences in the peak amplitude  and charge  in MCs  and TCs  were found . Ratio of early and late phase amplitude and charge after and before limiting GC-mediated inhibition . Distance dependence of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs . Map of where recorded MCs and TCs resided with respect to the M72 glomerulus . TC position on the y axis is the relative distance between the glomerular layer and the mitral cell layer  . Unfilled circles indicate MC/TCs that lack an apical dendrite . Plot of lateral inhibition amplitude vs absolute lateral distance from the M72 glomerulus in MCs  and TCs  . Plot of lateral inhibition amplitude vs relative radial distance from the M72 glomerulus in TCs  . 004 We also explored two potential causes of cell-to-cell variability in lateral inhibition . The strength of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs did not depend on whether the apical dendrite was truncated during the slicing procedure , indicating that lateral inhibition originating in the glomerular layer  did not significantly contribute to the differences in lateral inhibition studied here . However , for MCs and TCs recorded in the same slice , the same relationships in peak amplitude and charge transferred for both early and late phase inhibition were observed as in the larger data set . Specifically , early and late phase peak amplitude , but only late phase charge transferred , was significantly higher in MCs than in TCs measured in the same slice  . Similar to the results obtained using M72-ChR2-YFP mice , we find that only the peak amplitude of the early phase of inhibition is larger in MCs while both the amplitude and charge transferred of the late phase of inhibition are larger in MCs  . Together these two experiments indicate that lateral inhibition is larger and more asynchronous onto MCs than onto TCs . Finally , using photostimulation of a single glomerulus in OMP-ChR2-YFP mice , we tested whether GCs contribute similar proportions of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs using a previously described strategy  to differentiate between GC- vs . non-GC-mediated inhibition onto MCs and TCs . We recorded lateral inhibition before and after limiting GC-mediated inhibition by bath applying NMDAR antagonist APV  and mGluR antagonist LY36785  . Using this pharmacological approach , we found that GCs contribute similar proportions of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs  . Additionally , in MCs and TCs in which the apical dendrite had been truncated , all lateral inhibition was blocked after limiting GC-mediated inhibition  . In contrast , small inhibitory currents remained after limiting GC-mediated inhibition in MCs and TCs with intact apical dendrites  . Removing cells with cut apical dendrites and redoing the analysis presented in Figure 1l similarly shows that GCs contribute similar proportions of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs . These observations indicate that glomerular layer circuits make small and uniform contributions to lateral inhibition in MCs and TCs and thus are not the primary source of differences in lateral inhibition between MCs and TCs . We next explored how lateral inhibition influences MC and TC spiking . To do this , we stimulated MCs and TCs by step current injection and measured firing rates to construct input-output curves in cells near the M72 glomerulus . Similar proportions of MCs  and TCs  were affected by lateral inhibition  , and unaffected cells were excluded from further analysis . Additionally , MCs and TCs were similar distances from the M72 glomerulus  . Similar to our previous results using paired MC recordings  , MC firing rates were reduced by lateral inhibition selectively when MCs fired at intermediate rates , although inhibition was observed at more than double the rate observed in paired recordings . For example , the MC in Figure 2b , e was affected by lateral inhibition while firing between 27–76 Hz . Likewise , across a population of 16 MCs , rates between 34 ± 11 Hz and 79 ± 22 Hz were affected by lateral inhibition  . Surprisingly , TCs were influenced by lateral inhibition only when firing at low rates . The example TC in Figure 2c , d , f was affected by lateral inhibition while firing between 5–42 Hz , and across a population of 12 TCs , rates between 10 ± 4 Hz and 43 ± 8 Hz were affected by lateral inhibition  . Both the lower and upper bounds of the effective activity range of lateral inhibition  were significantly lower in TCs than in MCs  . Examples show a TC and MC affected by lateral inhibition at low and intermediate firing rates , respectively . Fluorescent image of a recorded MC that projects to a glomerulus near the M72 glomerulus . The impact of lateral inhibition on one example MC  and one example TC  was assessed by constructing FI curves for each cell via somatic current injections of increasing amplitudes . Examples of voltage traces in a MC  or TC  at 2 different firing rates with and without M72 photostimulation . The effect of lateral inhibition is illustrated by comparing the FI curves for the light off  versus light on  trials in the TC . Plots of the percent decrease in firing rate  or absolute firing rate  in light on trials for a MC  or TC  . MCs and TCs can sustain high firing rates  for long periods  following glomerular stimulation . Schematic of experiment in which we electrically stimulated the home glomerulus of a MC or TC . Spike raster  and PSTH  of the response in one MC  and one TC  to a single electrical pulse  to the OSN layer . Summary results show that TCs are influenced by lateral inhibition at low rates while MCs are influenced at intermediate rates . The range of firing rates that are significantly influenced by lateral inhibition is plotted with respect to the firing rate in light off trials . Average decrease in firing rate  across the population of MCs  and TCs  . The lower  and upper bound  of the range of rates affected by lateral inhibition are significantly lower in TCs compared to MCs . There is no change in the average decrease in firing rate  between MCs and TCs  . Distance dependence of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs . Lateral distance dependence of effect of lateral inhibition on spiking from data taken from Figure 3 . Map of where recorded MCs and TCs resided with respect to the M72 glomerulus . TC position on the y axis is the relative distance between the glomerular layer and the mitral cell layer  . Unfilled circles indicate MC/TCs that lack an apical dendrite . Plot of lateral inhibition amplitude vs . absolute lateral distance from the M72 glomerulus in MCs  and TCs  with and without lateral inhibition . Plot of lateral inhibition amplitude vs . relative radial distance from the M72 glomerulus in TCs  with and without lateral inhibition . Plot of lower bound of ADLI vs absolute distance from the M72 glomerulus in MCs  and TCs  . relative distance from the M72 glomerulus in TCs  . firing rate  is plotted in 3 MCs in light off  and light on  conditions . Same as a–c , only in 3 TCs . Example of the analysis in one MC  and one TC  . The range of firing rates that are significantly influenced by lateral inhibition is plotted with respect to the firing rate in light off trials . 010 The average fractional reduction in firing rate was much larger in TCs than in MCs  , though the absolute firing rate decrease was not significantly different   . Additionally , these effects of lateral inhibition on firing rate were present even in short timescales matching a single 4 Hz sniff  . Collectively , our results demonstrate that lateral inhibition is functionally distinct in MCs and TCs . This difference in activity-dependent lateral inhibition  may arise from differences in the lateral inhibitory circuits engaged by MCs and TCs . Our finding that inhibition is largely unaffected by apical dendrite truncation suggests that differences in ADLI between MCs and TCs most likely involves inhibitory circuitry within the external plexiform layer  . Consistent with MCs and TCs engaging distinct lateral inhibitory circuits within the EPL , classical morphological studies suggest that GCs are subdivided into superficial GCs  , which innervate the superficial EPL , and deep GCs  , which innervate the deep EPL  . This putative morphological subdivision of GCs suggests that sGCs inhibit TC lateral dendrites in the superficial EPL while dGCs inhibit MC lateral dendrites in the deep EPL  . Therefore , functional differences between sGCs and dGCs may mechanistically underlie the difference in ADLI observed between MCs and TCs . In particular , given our prior results demonstrating that low firing rates in MCs are unaffected by lateral inhibition because many GCs require cooperative inputs from multiple glomeruli in order to be activated  , we hypothesized that low firing rates in TCs are affected by lateral inhibition because sGCs are more strongly recruited than dGCs following activation of a single glomerulus . GC soma position correlates with GC subtype  and odor-evoked activity in vivo  . Whether these differences in odor-evoked activity in vivo reflect functional differences between GC subtypes and M/TC connectivity remains unclear , however , as: 1 ) odors activate multiple glomeruli in distinct spatiotemporal patterns , which can evoke a complex array of convergent excitation and inhibition onto individual GCs  , and 2 ) GC activity in vivo is strongly influenced by centrifugal input  and anesthesia  . Spiking response  and synaptic input  of the 3 sGCs shown in a following activation of a single glomerulus superficial to the targeted GC . Distribution of apical dendritic gemmules across reconstructed sGCs and dGCs . A greater proportion of sGCs than dGCs fired in response to glomerular activation  . Tables of GC properties . Morphological analysis of superficial and deep GCs . Same as a for 11 dGCs . Dendrogram of clustered GC morphologies . Sholl analysis of GC dendritic morphologies . Proposed mechanism of activity-dependent lateral inhibition in mitral  and tufted cells  . Schematics of the levels of activity in the olfactory bulb circuit consisting of M72 M/TCs  and the recorded M/TCs  and the associated GCs . ACTIVITY-Dependent lateral inhibition in MCs  : Low rates  : When the recorded MC is unstimulated or firing at low rates , no additional GCs are recruited during the photostimulation of the M72 glomerulus , so no lateral inhibition is evoked . Intermediate rates  : When the recorded MC is firing at intermediate firing rates , additional GCs are activated during the photostimulation of the M72 glomerulus and generate lateral inhibition . High rates  : When the recorded MC is firing at high firing rates , all shared GCs are maximally recruited so that M72 photostimulation is unable to activate any additional GCs or generate additional lateral inhibition . Activity-dependent lateral inhibition in tcs  :Low rates  : When the recorded TC is firing at low firing rates , additional GCs are activated selectively during the photostimulation of the M72 glomerulus and generate lateral inhibition . INTERMEDIATE AND HIGH RATES  : When the recorded TC is firing at intermediate or high firing rates , all shared GCs are maximally recruited so that M72 photostimulation is unable to activate any additional GCs or generate lateral inhibition . Specifically , as TC circuitry is closer to any given glomerulus than MC circuitry , TC-mediated input to GCs  may be better preserved than MC-mediated input to GCs  in the acute slice , leading to stronger sGC excitation and recruitment following glomerular activation . As an additional test of our hypothesis that differences in the excitability of GCs provide one potential mechanism underlying the functional difference in ADLI between MCs and TCs , we measured the effects of lateral inhibition on MC spiking before and after increasing the excitability of GCs with the mGluR agonist  -3 , 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine   . At this concentration , DHPG selectively enhances the excitability of GCs  but not MCs  . The effective activity range of lateral inhibition in MCs  fell from 31  –73  Hz to 16  –49  Hz after adding DHPG  , and the lower and upper bounds of the effective activity range of lateral inhibition were significantly reduced after the addition of DHPG  . For instance , DHPG-induced increases in the excitability of external tufted cells  may , in turn , increase the activity in M72-MCs , the activity in GCs and GC-mediated inhibition onto the recorded MC . These data  provide two indirect lines of evidence that suggest that differences in GC populations provide one mechanism for differences in the effective activity range of lateral inhibition onto MCs and TCs . Increasing GC excitability shifts the effective activity range of lateral inhibition in MCs to lower frequencies . Example of lateral inhibition in one example MC before and after bath applying mGluR agonist , DHPG  . Example voltage traces from one MC . LEFT: Before application of DHPG , intermediate firing rates are affected by lateral inhibition . The effect of lateral inhibition is illustrated by comparing the FI curves for the light off versus light on trials in a MC before  and after  applying DHPG . the firing rate of light off trials . The lower  and upper bound  of the effective activity range of lateral inhibition are significantly lower after application of DHPG . DHPG has no effect on MC excitability . MC input-output curves in response to 500 ms somatic current injections of increasing amplitudes before and after bath application of DHPG  . Average Pre-DHPG and Post-DHPG FI curves across 6 MCs indicate that DHPG has no effect on MC excitability  . 016 Together these data suggest that distinct odor-evoked activity observed in MCs and TCs in vivo arises , in part , due to differences in how ADLI affects each cell type  . To begin assessing how these circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs impact their ability to encode olfactory information , we performed simulations of MC and TC networks to determine how differences in ADLI may translate into differences in stimulus encoding . We simulated an olfactory discrimination task in which a presented odor must be identified from a panel of similar odors . Because the goal of the simulations was to understand how the differences in MC and TC circuit properties described above influence population coding , we used simple firing rate models in which we could directly and independently modify lateral inhibition properties without changing other model features . We therefore made relatively few assumptions in performing our simulations , mostly relating to how odor concentration is encoded  , how lateral inhibitory connectivity is specified  , and how MCs and TCs differ  . Each odor was simulated as a pattern of inputs to populations of MCs or TCs , corresponding to activated glomeruli  . Differences in odor concentration were modeled as changes in the number and intensity of activated glomeruli   . Additionally , we added trial-to-trial variability in each presentation of a particular odor  in order to mimic natural fluctuations in the background odors and in the patterns of odor-evoked glomerular activation  . MCs and TCs discriminate between odors best in separate concentration ranges . Odors are defined as the pattern of activated glomeruli  in the model . Each glomerulus provides input to only 1 MC/TC . TOP: Pattern of activated glomeruli for 2 odors . BOTTOM: Two separate presentations of Odor 1 . Outputs of MCs or TCs are used to train and test a linear classifier to predict which odors are presented on each trial . Lateral inhibition differences between MCs and TCs are modeled using Gaussian distributions centered at different firing rates . Firing rates of MCs  and TCs  with and without lateral inhibition . Discrimination accuracy of 8  and 32  odors in MCs  , TCs  and a control population of neurons that lacked any inhibition  . Shaded areas represent concentration ranges where TCs  or MCs  discriminate significantly better  . Differences in the strength of excitatory inputs and intrinsic excitability between MCs and TCs are modeled using 2 sigmoids to translate glomerular inputs into MC/TC outputs . Discrimination accuracy of 32 odors in MCs  and TCs  that differ in excitability , strength of glomerular input . Discrimination accuracy of 32 odors in MCs  and TCs  that differ in excitability , strength of glomerular input and ADLI . Overview of simulations comparing 3 separate output neuron configurations: 2 MCs per glomerulus , 2 TCs per glomerulus or 1 MC and 1TC per glomerulus . Discrimination accuracy of 32 odors for MC-MC  , TC-TC  or MC-TC  networks across a range of concentrations . The odor is defined by a random set of pixels  that will be reliably activated at a set concentration on each presentation of the odor . Pixels that are not ON for a particular odor are either non-activatable  or OFF pixels . This procedure ensures that differences in odor concentration reflect changes in both the number and intensity of activated glomeruli . Once a single odor is defined , the rest of the odors in the panel can be created using the rules in b . This procedure creates an arbitrary number of odors that are 90% similar to the first odor . Additionally , we ensure that no two odors are identical . Lastly the OFF and non-activatable  pixels are sampled randomly from the uniform distribution each time the odor is presented to the MC or TC network in order to add trial-to-trial variability and to mimic the variability in background odor each time an odor is experienced . Subtractive or divisive lateral inhibition does not improve discrimination accuracy . Neural firing rates with and without subtractive  or divisive  lateral inhibition . Discrimination accuracy of 32 odors in neurons with subtractive  , divisive  or no inhibition  . 020© 1942 , Warner Brothers , All Rights Reserved1942Warner BrothersFigure 6—figure supplement 3 photo  is reproduced with permission from Warner Brothers In our simulations , we asked how well MC and TC population activity discriminated between similar odors presented at the same odor concentration . In this simulation , each MC or TC received excitatory input from one of the 150 glomeruli . On each trial , we randomly presented one odor from the panel to networks comprised entirely of either MCs or TCs . We applied a common decoding algorithm , linear discriminant analysis , to determine the extent to which different odors were discriminable in our simulated MC and TC populations  . ADLI was modeled by explicitly adjusting the sensitivity of MC and TC firing rates to inhibition without changing other parameters of the model  . When the odor panel consisted of only 8 odors , both MC and TC populations discriminated between odors with an accuracy that did not differ from the control population that lacked inhibition  . However , when we increased the difficulty of the task by increasing the size of the odor panel  , the difference in accuracy between MCs and TCs dramatically increased  . For the set of 32 odors , TCs significantly outperformed MCs and the control population at low odor concentrations  while MCs significantly outperformed TCs and the control population at high concentrations  . Therefore , differences in ADLI alone support concentration-dependent differences in odor discrimination . Specifically , we compared discrimination accuracy  between 3 populations of neurons; one with subtractive inhibition  , one with divisive inhibition  and a control population that lacked inhibition . These results agree with prior work that showed that ADLI substantially decorrelates MC responses to similar odors while subtractive and divisive forms of lateral inhibition have little effect on MC correlation  . Prior work has shown that , in addition to ADLI differences , TCs are more intrinsically excitable  and receive stronger OSN inputs than MCs  . Therefore , we next asked how well these differences between MCs and TCs affect odor discrimination . These differences in MC vs . TC excitability and OSN input strength also allow TCs and MCs to discriminate odors best at low and high concentrations respectively  . Finally we simulated how all three differences between MCs and TCs – ADLI , intrinsic excitability and glomerular input – affected odor concentration . Intriguingly , TCs were best at discriminating between low concentration odors when all three differences were included in the model  . Together , these simulations show that intrinsic and circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs work cooperatively to optimize discrimination between similar odors in separate concentration ranges . First , we asked whether models containing a combination of MCs and TCs discriminate odors better than models that have only MCs or TCs . We compared three different output neuron configurations: 2 MCs per glomerulus , 2 TCs per glomerulus , and 1 MC and 1 TC per glomerulus  . Similar to the data presented in Figure 6g , TC models discriminated between 32 odors best at low concentrations and MC models were best at high concentrations  . However , MC-TC models significantly outperformed other models at intervening odor concentrations . Interestingly , MC-TC models also exhibited the second best performance at high and low concentrations , and after averaging discrimination accuracy across all concentrations tested , we found that models containing a combination of MCs and TCs performed significantly better than models composed of only MCs or only TCs  . We find that differences in ADLI selectively reduce intermediate firing rates in MCs and low firing rates in TCs . MCs . Moreover , using simulations , we show that differences in the effective activity range of lateral inhibition , along with other intrinsic and circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs , work cooperatively to enable MCs and TCs to best discriminate between similar odors in separate concentration ranges . Finally , we show that the combination of MCs and TCs facilitates odor discrimination across a wide range of odor concentrations . The activity-dependence of lateral inhibition depends on three cell populations – the 'presynaptic' M/TCs associated with the M72 glomerulus  , the inhibitory interneurons and the 'postsynaptic' M/TCs . Our prior work has shown that increasing the firing rate of presynaptic MCs  shifts the range of MC firing rates influenced by lateral inhibition  . Given that TCs fire at higher rates than MCs following glomerular activation  , M72 TCs will fire at higher rates than M72 MCs following M72 photoactivation and , in part , contribute to the decreased lower bound of the effective activity range of lateral inhibition in postsynaptic TCs . However , higher firing rates in M72 TCs alone is insufficient to explain the differences in both the lower and upper bound in the effective activity range of lateral inhibition between MCs and TCs . Our analysis supports the hypothesis that TCs and MCs are preferentially connected to sGCs and dGCs , respectively . Additionally , we provide indirect evidence that differences in the recruitability of sGCs and dGCs may be one potential mechanism underlying the differences in ADLI between MCs and TCs . Our data suggests that sGCs spike with a higher probability than dGCs following the activation of a single glomerulus . Consequently , postsynaptic TCs can effectively recruit lateral inhibition when firing at low rates . However , when the postsynaptic MC fires at intermediate rates , additional dGCs will become activated and mediate lateral inhibition . In support of this mechanism , we show that increasing the excitability of GCs by activating mGluRs  shifts the effective activity range of lateral inhibition in MCs to lower firing rates  . Additionally , these differences between sGCs and dGCs can explain why the upper bound on the effective activity range of lateral inhibition differs between MCs and TCs . Because sGCs are more excitable than dGCs , maximal GABA release , and consequently the upper bound on the effective activity range of lateral inhibition , occurs at lower rates in TCs than in MCs  . While preferential connectivity of TCs with sGCs and MCs with dGCs can explain the observed differences in the activity-dependence of lateral inhibition , other circuit mechanisms may also contribute . In particular , EPL interneurons  can mediate inhibition onto M/TCs  , and it remains possible that EPL-INs or distinct subclasses of EPL-INs preferentially inhibit MCs or TCs . However , it is unlikely that EPL-INs predominantly drive the difference in MC vs . TC ADLI given that EPL-INs mediate linear  but not activity-dependent inhibition of MC/TC outputs  . Glomerular layer circuits have also been shown to play a role in M/TC lateral inhibition  , however these circuits likely do not play a role in the differences in ADLI reported here because our results were not influenced by apical dendrite truncation . Differential connectivity of MCs and TCs with distinct GC subclasses has long been predicted based on the putative morphological subdivisions of GC apical dendritic morphologies  and separation of MC and TC lateral dendrites in the deep and superficial EPL  , respectively . However , distributed M/TC-GC connectivity along exceedingly long M/TC lateral dendrites has , thus far , precluded a direct demonstration of differential connectivity of MCs and TCs with distinct GC subclasses . Moreover , our results provide – to our knowledge – the first functional evidence that MCs and TCs engage distinct lateral inhibitory circuits , likely via differential connectivity with dGCs and sGCs , respectively . Future experiments involving selective manipulation of MCs vs . TCs and dGCs vs . Our data describe local , circuit-level mechanisms that can account for several differences between MC and TC odor-evoked responses observed in vivo . Weaker lateral inhibitory currents may contribute to the finding that TCs are less frequently inhibited by odors  . Additionally , the finding that intermediate and high firing rates are unaffected by lateral inhibition in TCs may help explain why TCs show odor-evoked responses that are more highly correlated to OSN input  and less dependent on concentration  . Additionally , TCs firing above the upper bound of the effective activity range of lateral inhibition are shielded , not only from lateral inhibition , but other sources of GC-mediated inhibition as well , such as inhibition triggered by cortical feedback  , Consequently , the circuit-level differences we describe may explain why MCs but not TCs are decorrelated by cortical feedback  . These circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs likely affect olfactory discrimination  . ADLI , but not subtractive or divisive inhibition , allows TCs and MCs to best discriminate between odors at low and high concentrations , respectively . Prior work has shown that activity in M/TC populations becomes decorrelated over time  and that this decorrelation is driven by GCs  . Additionally , GC-mediated M/TC decorrelation improves odor discrimination  . Consequently , ADLI likely improves odor discrimination by driving decorrelation of M/TC firing in ranges that engage lateral inhibition  . M/TCs firing at rates outside the effective range of lateral inhibition may be encoding complementary olfactory information beyond odor identity . Performing these experiments in acute slices provides the best opportunity to explore the causes and consequences of differences in lateral inhibition between MCs and TCs . TC ADLI . Importantly , however , our findings that MCs receive stronger lateral inhibitory currents and are affected at different ranges of firing rates than TCs are unlikely to reflect slicing artifacts . Due to slicing , some MCs and TCs that project to the M72 glomerulus will be truncated , and cells that reside farther from the M72 glomerulus have a higher probability of being truncated . However , the effect of ADLI on MCs that are observed here following activation of an entire glomerulus closely mirrors the effects that were observed when activating a single presynaptic MC in our previous work  . Addressing the extent to which ADLI affects odor-evoked responses in MCs and TCs in vivo is thus an important future direction . In the olfactory system there is no evidence that MCs and TCs are targeted by distinct subsets of OSNs . Here we show that MCs and TCs perform odor discriminations best at separate concentration ranges and that a combination of MCs and TCs discriminates similar odors better than either population alone . Similarly , differences in odor-evoked responses in MCs and TCs emerge due to differences in connectivity to OSNs , external tufted cells  and GCs . For MC and TC recordings , postnatal day 16-23 M72-ChR2-YFP  mice were anaesthetized with isoflurane and decapitated into ice-cold oxygenated dissection solution containing  : 125 NaCl , 25 glucose , 2 . For MC and TC recordings in OMP-ChR2-YFP mice , horizontal slices  were prepared from postnatal day 17–21 mice . TCs were identified as those cells with large somas  that reside completely in the EPL . MCs were identified as large cells located in the mitral cells layer  . ‘Displaced MCs  ’ or ‘internal TCs  ’ , those cells with somata that only partially reside in the mitral cell layer were excluded from analysis due to their ambiguous identity as MCs or TCs . GCs located in the MCL or GC layer were distinguished from other cell types and classified as sGCs or dGCs as previously described  . For MC and TC recordings , slices were continuously superfused with 37°C oxygenated Ringer solution that contained 0 . IPSCs evoked through lateral inhibition were present if positive deflections of the current trace exceeded 3*s . The effect of lateral inhibition on spiking was measured by performing FI curves in MCs and TCs via somatic current injection of increasing amplitudes . Lateral inhibition was defined to have a significant effect on a cell if there was a greater than 10% decrease in firing rate in at least 2 consecutive current steps . Models of odors and olfactory bulb circuitry were developed in Matlab   . The scheme for generating odor panels and individual odor trials is depicted in Figure 6—figure supplement 1 . Each odor is represented by the spatial pattern of a 15 × 10 array of pixels  . For each odor presented at a particular concentration  , we first made Odor 1 . The next step in the construction of the odor panel was to make an arbitrary number of other odors that are 90% similar to Odor 1 . To make these odors , we enforced a set of rules . These odors became the glomerular input for olfactory bulbs composed of either MC or TCs . Each MC/TC was represented by a continuous firing rate variable , v . Two differences between MCs and TCs , higher excitability and increased excitatory input are reflected by increased slope  and reduced midpoint  of the TC sigmoid . MCs/TCs were randomly connected to 75/60% of other MC/TCs , reflecting the shorter extent of lateral dendrites in TCs compared with MCs  . Inhibition was calculated as the product of the sum of network activity , u   , and a Gaussian function that determines which range of firing rates are influenced by lateral inhibition  . The center and width of the MC and TC Gaussian distribution are based on differences in the range of rates influenced by lateral inhibition in our data . The MC or TC outputs from half of the trials are used to train a naïve Bayes classifier which was then used to predict which odor is being presented on the remaining half of trials . The percent correct is used as the discrimination accuracy for that odor panel . For simulations , we constructed 100 odor panels at each concentration . A sigmoidal transfer function was used to translate glomerular inputs into MC/TC outputs so that odor concentrations could be defined in terms of MC/TC firing rates while not make any explicit comparisons to actual odor concentrations . For bulbs containing only MCs or TCs , each of the two cell that input from the same glomerulus receive inhibition from a random set of other neurons . In bulbs containing both MCs and TCs , inhibition remained segregated , that is TCs/MCs only received inhibition from a random set of other TCs/MCs . 
The M2 muscarinic receptor is the prototypic model of allostery in GPCRs , yet the molecular and the supramolecular determinants of such effects are unknown . Monomers and oligomers of the M2 muscarinic receptor therefore have been compared to identify those allosteric properties that are gained in oligomers . Allosteric interactions were monitored by means of a FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site and in pharmacological assays involving mutants engineered to preclude intramolecular effects . Allosteric effects in monomers were exclusively negative and derived primarily from intramolecular electrostatic repulsion between the allosteric and orthosteric ligands . Allosteric effects in oligomers could be positive or negative , depending upon the allosteric-orthosteric pair , and they arose from interactions within and between the constituent protomers . The complex behavior of oligomers is characteristic of muscarinic receptors in myocardial preparations . Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors contain an orthosteric site and a topographically distinct allosteric site  . The latter is located at the extracellular surface within a vestibule to the orthosteric site  , and that region shows comparatively low sequence homology among the five muscarinic subtypes  . The allosteric site therefore is more subtype-specific than the orthosteric site , and allosteric ligands are increasingly of interest for their therapeutic potential  . Owing to the early demonstration of allosteric interactions in muscarinic systems  and the variety of available modulators  , the M2 muscarinic receptor has been a prototype for such effects within the broader family of G protein-coupled receptors  . Most studies of the interaction of an allosteric ligand with the allosteric site have been based on the modulation of events at the orthosteric site , typically on receptors in native membranes or detergent-solubilized extracts . They also may be positive or negative  , and the data generally have been described in terms of interactions between two binding sites on a monomeric receptor  . In the case of the M2 receptor , an atomic-level view of the interaction within a monomer has emerged recently from the crystallography-derived structure of a biliganded receptor  and from inferences based on molecular dynamics simulations  . That uncertainty relates to questions regarding electrostatic repulsion between highly charged allosteric and orthosteric ligands , steric effects of the former on binding of the latter , and the effect of either ligand on conformational stability at the site of the other  . The common view that allosteric interactions occur within monomeric receptors is limited in its ability to rationalize complex effects that are seen in the binding of radioligands . For example , dissociation of the antagonist quinuclidinylbenzilate  from the M2 receptor is accelerated by gallamine at lower concentrations of the allosteric ligand and slowed at higher concentrations , resulting in a bell-shaped profile  . At equilibrium , the binding of QNB and the inverse agonist N-methylscopolamine  can display a biphasic and even a triphasic dependence on the concentration of an allosteric modulator  . Such effects imply either that a single molecule of the receptor possesses up to four allosteric sites or that allostery occurs via linked sites within an oligomer  . To understand how a multimeric complex might account for allosteric behavior that resists explanation in terms of monomers , we have compared positive and negative allosteric modulators for their effects on oligomers and purified monomers of the M2 muscarinic receptor . Our approach has involved a novel FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site , mutants that allow only for allosteric modulation between linked protomers , mechanistic modeling , and molecular dynamics simulations . , between two sites on a monomer or on the same protomer of an oligomer—are dominated by electrostatic repulsion and result in low-affinity negative modulation by the allosteric ligand . Intermolecular interactions—i . , between two sites on neighboring protomers of an oligomer—result in high-affinity allosteric modulation that may be positive or negative , depending upon the constraints associated with ligand-binding and the nature and extent of conformational changes transmitted between protomers . The results provide a direct demonstration of how allosteric effects characteristic of M2 receptors arise from interactions between the constituent protomers of an oligomer . M2 receptors were solubilized as oligomers and purified as monomers in the manner described previously  . cMyc- and FLAG-tagged receptors were extracted from co-infected Sf9 cells in digitonin–cholate , and oligomers were detected by co-immunoprecipitation  . The affinity of NMS for the purified monomer  and the purity of the sample were the same as reported previously  . Oligomeric and monomeric preparations of the M2 muscarinic receptor . The amount of receptor was determined from the binding of QNB at the saturating concentration of 10 nM . The same amount of receptor was applied to each well  . The monomeric receptor migrated as a doublet  . The rate constant for the dissociation of QNB from purified monomers was measured at graded concentrations of gallamine  and normalized to that in the absence of gallamine  to obtain the relative rate constant  plotted on the y-axis . NMS  was mixed with gallamine at the concentrations shown on the x-axis , and binding was measured after incubation of the reaction mixture for 21 hr at 30°C . The binding of NMS  to M2 receptors extracted from porcine sarcolemmal membranes  and purified as monomers from Sf9 cells  was measured at graded concentrations of strychnine following the simultaneous addition of both ligands  , the sequential addition of strychnine and NMS  , and the sequential addition of NMS and strychnine  . Pretreatment with one ligand was followed after 2 hr by the addition of the other and further incubation for 3 hr . Panel B–Monomeric status of the purified M2 receptor after chemical cross-linking . Panel C–Parametric values for the effect of gallamine on the rate of dissociation of QNB . Panel D–Parametric values for the effect of gallamine on the binding of NMS at equilibrium . Panels E–G–Parametric values for the effect of strychnine on the binding of NMS to oligomers and monomers . Figure 1–figure supplement 1–Parametric values for the effect of strychnine on the binding of NMS and QNB to membrane-bound M2 receptor . Figure 1-figure supplement 2–Rate constants for the simulated binding of strychnine and NMS according to Figure 6 . Effect of strychnine on the binding of NMS and QNB to membrane-bound M2receptor . The binding of NMS  or QNB  to M2 receptor in membranes from CHO cells was measured at the concentrations of strychnine shown on the x-axes . Strychnine and the radioligand were added simultaneously to the receptor , and the reaction mixture was incubated for 3 hr  and 12 hr  at 30°C . The concentrations of NMS and QNB were 0 . 003 nM and 0 . 005 nM , respectively , and the corresponding affinities  were 0 . 03 nM and 0 . 008 nM . Data from three  or two  experiments were analyzed simultaneously according to Equation 2 , taken with two terms for NMS  and one term for QNB  . Simulated effect of strychnine on the binding of NMS according to Figure 6 . Total specific binding of the orthosteric ligand  at graded concentrations of strychnine was simulated according to Figure 6  with the parametric values listed in Figure 1-source data 3 . The concentration of NMS was taken as equal to the dissociation constant  . The level of binding was computed for different times after the simultaneous addition of both ligands  , after the addition of NMS to a system pre-equilibrated with strychnine  , and after the addition of strychnine to a system pre-equilibrated with NMS  . 008 Monomeric M2 receptors retain the interaction between ligands at the allosteric and orthosteric sites . The allosteric modulator gallamine slowed the dissociation of QNB , and the time-course of the dissociation was mono-exponential under all conditions . Gallamine therefore appears to slow the release of QNB from monomers via a single allosteric site . In contrast , two or more allosteric sites can be inferred from the bell-shaped behavior of receptors that are predominantly or wholly oligomeric   . Monomers of the M2 receptor equilibrated slowly with NMS and either gallamine or the allosteric modulator strychnine when the two ligands were added simultaneously , and incubation for 21 hr was required for the attainment of equilibrium at 30°C . Gallamine and strychnine therefore appear to modulate the equilibrium binding of NMS to monomers via a single allosteric site . The monophasic nature of effects observed at purified monomers differs from the triphasic effect of gallamine on the binding of NMS to M2 receptors in other preparations , including membranes and detergent-solubilized extracts from Sf9 cells , CHO cells , and porcine atria   . Those multiphasic curves and the Hill coefficients of the individual components , taken together , are indicative of at least four interacting allosteric sites , which in turn are suggestive of four interacting receptors within a tetramer or larger oligomer . Similarly , the bell-shaped pattern obtained for strychnine in atrial extracts  and in membranes from CHO cells  is indicative of at least two allosteric sites and also points to an oligomer . Allosteric ligands bind in a vestibule to the orthosteric site  , forming a cap that impedes the binding and dissociation of the orthosteric ligand   . Such kinetic effects were examined experimentally by varying the sequence in which strychnine and NMS were added to the receptor . In one protocol , the two ligands were added simultaneously and incubated with the receptor for 21 hr to obtain the pattern at equilibrium . In another , one ligand was pre-equilibrated with the receptor prior to the addition of the second , and the mixture was incubated for a further 3 hr to obtain the pattern at a time prior to equilibrium . With receptors in atrial extracts , the effect of strychnine on the binding of NMS was bell-shaped under all conditions  . With purified monomers , strychnine was strictly inhibitory except when the receptor was pre-equilibrated with NMS , when there was no effect  . The patterns observed in experiments on monomers are consistent with the patterns observed in simulations performed according to Figure 6  , which describes a mechanism for allosteric capping of the orthosteric site in a monomer . Allosteric effects that produce multiphasic binding profiles such as those illustrated by the dashed lines in Figure 1C , D have been attributed to a combination of inter- and intramolecular interactions within oligomers  . For more direct information on those interactions and related conformational changes , we developed a sensor based on FRET between FlAsH and mCherry . A fluorophore at the N-terminus of the M2 receptor has been shown previously to have no discernible effect on various properties , including transport of the receptor to the plasma membrane , agonist-induced responses , and the binding of muscarinic ligands  . The affinity of the receptor for NMS was essentially the same , as measured in preparations of membrane-bound and detergent-solubilized mCh-M2-FCM from transfected CHO cells  . The modified receptor also retained the triphasic allosteric effect of gallamine on the binding of NMS , as measured in membranes from CHO cells expressing mCh-M2-FCM  . Molecular models of the native M2 receptor , mCh-M2-FCM , and the FlAsH-bound sensor were rendered from the crystal structures of mCherry   and the receptor in an active state   . A structure of the sensor showing the positions of FlAsH and mCherry is given in Figure 2A . FRET-based detection of conformational change at the allosteric site . A computed molecular model of the M2 receptor  fused at the N-terminus to mCherry  and labeled with FlAsH  at a tetracysteine motif inserted in ECL2 between Val166 and Gly167 . Expanded views of ECL2 with the insert FCM and FlAsH . M2 receptor bearing mCherry and the FlAsH-reactive insert  was expressed in CHO cells and treated with FlAsH . CHO cells expressing mCh-M2-FCM or the mCherry-tagged wild-type M2 receptor  were treated with FlAsH and excited at 498 nm . 0; light grey bars , mCh-M2 , 34 cells , μ = 0 . mCh-M2-FCM was expressed in CHO cells and reacted with FlAsH , and the value of Eapp was measured before and after addition of the inverse agonist NMS  , the allosteric modulator gallamine  , NMS  plus gallamine  , the agonist carbachol  , and the partial agonist pilocarpine  . The ligand-dependent changes in Eapp are plotted in the figure  , and the values are listed and compared in Figure 2—source data 1 . The mean value of Eapp for cells in the absence of ligand was 60 ± 8%  . Panel A–Time-resolved fluorescence and fluorescence anistoropy of eGFP and eGFP-tagged M2 receptors . Panel E–Levels of significance for ligand-dependent changes in the FRET efficiency of FlAsH-reacted mCh-M2-FCM . Expression and localization of fluorophore-tagged M2 receptors . CHO cells were transfected with plasmids coding for mCh-M2-FCM  , mCh-M2  -FCM  , M2-FCM  , eGFP-M2  , mCh-M2  , and eGFP-M2-mCh  . Cells were labelled with FlAsH and excited at 488 nm to obtain the images in A–C . eGFP was excited at 488 nm to obtain the image in D , and mCh was excited at 561 nm to obtain the images in E and F . Modulatory effect of gallamine on the binding of NMS to mCh-M2-FCM . Membranes were prepared from CHO cells expressing M2 receptor bearing mCherry at the N-terminus and the FlAsH-reactive sequence FCM in the second extracellular loop . The binding of NMS was measured at the concentrations of gallamine  shown on the x-axis . The mean concentration of NMS was 3 . 05 nM . FRET between eGFP fused at the N-terminus and mCherry inserted after Val166 . CHO cells expressing the eGFP- and mCherry-tagged M2 receptor were excited at 473 nm at a power of 0 . The distribution of FRET efficiencies from 33 cells . The mean FRET efficiency  measured in the absence of ligand , in the presence of NMS   , or in the presence NMS  plus gallamine   DOI: http://dx . Each tagged receptor was expressed in CHO cells and extracted in digitonin–cholate , and the rotational correlation time  of the fused fluorophore was estimated from the fluorescence anisotropy according to Equations 4–9 . The full-length receptor was examined with and without ligands , and eGFP alone was taken as a control . The rotational correlation times obtained for receptor-bound eGFP therefore are indistinguishable , and the movement of the fluorophore at the N-terminus of the receptor appears to be determined primarily by the tumbling of the whole protein , with or without ligands . Controls in which FlAsH was reacted with mCherry-tagged receptors lacking the FCM sequence gave a narrow distribution centered on 0 . 5%  , confirming the specificity of the reaction with FlAsH . The emission spectrum and corresponding FRET efficiency between FlAsH and mCherry was measured for each cell before and after the addition of various ligands . Smaller increases were obtained with the partial agonist pilocarpine , the allosteric modulator gallamine , and the combination of gallamine plus NMS . The differences in efficiency at individual cells were averaged over all cells to obtain the mean for each ligand  , which varied from an increase of 20 percentage points with NMS to a decrease of 22 percentage points with carbachol . These changes indicate that the sensor can distinguish between agonists and an inverse agonist at the orthosteric site . Gallamine caused an increase of 5 . 0 percentage points and reduced the increase caused by NMS from 22 to 8 . 0 percentage points , indicating that the sensor detects the effect of the allosteric ligand on NMS . The nature of high-affinity allosteric interactions . The sensor   , a mutant thereof that does not bind NMS   , and the mutant plus the wild-type M2 receptor  were expressed or co-expressed in CHO cells and reacted with FlAsH . The cultures were irradiated before  and after  the addition of NMS  , and the emission spectra from individual cells were unmixed to determine the contribution of each component  and the corresponding FRET efficiency  . Ligand-dependent changes in the FRET efficiency  were averaged over 18–42 cells transfected as described for panels A–C , and the means  are plotted in the figure . The value for mCh-M2-FCM is replotted from Figure 2F . A depiction of intermolecular cooperativity within a hetero-oligomer of the M2 receptor in which binding is precluded at the orthosteric site of one mutant  and the allosteric site of another  . Aliquots of each sample were added to solutions of NMS  and gallamine at the concentrations shown on the x-axis , and binding was measured after incubation of the mixture for 21 hr at 30°C . NMS bound to detergent-solubilized M2-ECL2+ve with an affinity of 5 . 5 nM  . Panel D–Levels of significance for ligand-dependent changes in the FRET efficiency of FlAsH-reacted mCh-M2-FCM and mCh-M2  -FCMDOI: http://dx . Coexpression of the M2 receptor and a non-binding sensor . CHO cells were cotransfected with the plasmids coding for eGFP-M2 and mCh-M2  -FCM . The cells were treated with FlAsh , and those expressing both receptors were identified by the presence of both eGFP and mCherry . The emission was recorded in absence of ligand  and in the presence of NMS   , and the spectra were unmixed according to Equation 11 to obtain the contribution of each fluorophore . The FRET efficiency between FlAsH and mCherry was computed from the unmixed contributions according to Equation 12 . 016 A receptor bearing eGFP at the N-terminus and mCherry rather than FlAsH-FCM after Val166 in ECL2 gave a comparatively narrow distribution of FRET efficiencies with a mean of about 10% and a width of about 4%  . The effects of NMS and gallamine on FRET were eliminated  , suggesting that the insertion of mCherry within ECL2 disrupts the vestibule to the orthosteric site . The distribution of FRET efficiencies was narrower than that obtained with FlAsH and mCherry in the sensor , where the greater width of 40% may arise from differences in the labelling efficiency of FlAsH among different cells . The substitution of alanine for aspartic acid at position 103 of the M2 receptor removes the counter-ion for positively charged ligands at the orthosteric site  . That mutation has been shown previously to prevent the specific binding of NMS or QNB to M2 receptors in HEK293 membranes at concentrations of the radioligand up to 10 nM  . The same mutation in the sensor prevented the specific binding of NMS at a concentration of 1 µM , as measured with mCh-M2  -FCM extracted from transfected CHO cells in digitonin–cholate . It also eliminated the effect of NMS on FRET . There was essentially no change in the emission spectrum at 610 nm  , in contrast to the increase observed with FlAsH-treated mCh-M2-FCM  ; also , the NMS-dependent increase in the mean FRET efficiency was reduced from 21 . 2 percentage points in mCh-M2-FCM to 0 . Sensitivity to NMS was recovered when the binding-deficient mutant was co-expressed with the wild-type M2 receptor  , resulting in a ligand-dependent change in the mean FRET efficiency of 9 . The recovery indicates that M2 receptors occur at least partly as oligomers in which the conformation in the region of the allosteric site of one protomer is affected by a ligand at the orthosteric site of another . In cells such as that represented in Figure 3C , co-existence of the wild-type receptor and FlAsH-reacted mCh-M2  -FCM is inferred from the effect of NMS on FRET . To confirm the cellular co-localization of the two proteins , cells were co-transfected with the plasmids for mCh-M2  -FCM and the wild-type receptor fused at the N-terminus to eGFP  . NMS increased the FRET efficiency between FlAsH and mCherry by 5 . 5 percentage points , in a further indication that the conformational change detected by FRET in one protomer derives from the binding of the ligand to another . The first two inflections of the triphasic binding profile exhibited by gallamine have been attributed to intermolecular modulation via allosteric sites on different protomers of an oligomer  . In a direct test for such interactions , the three negatively charged residues of the EDGE motif in ECL2 were replaced by three positively charged residues  to obtain a mutant in which the binding of a cationic ligand such as gallamine to the allosteric site is precluded by electrostatic repulsion  . When the mutant was expressed in CHO cells and extracted in digitonin–cholate , the substitution was found to be without effect on the affinity of NMS for the orthosteric site  . The triphasic pattern revealed by gallamine at the wild-type receptor was lost , however , and in its place was a single inflection of comparatively low affinity   . FLAG-tagged receptors lacking the orthosteric site ( FLAG-M2  ) then were co-expressed with hexahistidyl-tagged receptors lacking the allosteric site  , and purified complexes containing at least one copy of each mutant were obtained by successive passage of detergent-solubilized material on an immuno-affinity column of immobilized anti-FLAG antibody  and a chelating resin of Ni2+-NTA  . Binding of NMS to the purified heteromer displayed a triphasic dependence on the concentration of gallamine  , and the apparent affinities calculated in terms of Equation 2  were in good agreement with those reported for the wild-type receptor   . The magnitude of the inhibitory effect corresponding to the allosteric sites of weakest affinity was much less than that observed with the wild-type receptor  . Allosteric effects were examined in molecular dynamics simulations at the atomic level , starting from the crystal structure of the monomeric M2 receptor occupied by the agonist iperoxo   . The ligand and accessory proteins were removed , and conformations of the receptor were sampled from a canonical ensemble accessible within a period of 30 ns . Interactions between allosteric and orthosteric ligands  were found to be affected by the degree of electrostatic repulsion between their positive charges and the conformational changes induced in one site by a ligand at the other , which together determine the positional stability of each ligand in its respective site . The effect of electrostatic repulsion was evaluated by two correlates  : the distance between the spatial centers of the cationic nitrogen atoms of the two ligands  , and changes in the electrostatic potential of an allosteric ligand upon the addition of an orthosteric ligand . All four allosteric–orthosteric pairs showed a degree of electrostatic repulsion , but steric effects reduced the difference between strychnine and gallamine to less than would be predicted on the basis of charge alone  . Also , the smaller steric load born by the single cationic nitrogen atom of strychnine allows for positioning closer to the orthosteric site . Correlates of electrostatic repulsion between orthosteric and allosteric ligands . The inter-cationic distance was calculated as that between the cationic nitrogen atom of the orthosteric ligand and the closest cationic nitrogen atom of the allosteric ligand . The difference in electrostatic potential was calculated as the increase in electrostatic energy of an allosteric modulator at a receptor with a vacant orthosteric site over that of the same modulator at a receptor with NMS or QNB at the orthosteric site . 017Allosteric–orthosteric pairStr_R_NMSaStr_R_QNBGal_R_NMSGal_R_QNBaInter-cationic distance  13 . Intramolecular interactions between orthosteric and allosteric ligands . Models of the liganded receptor were simulated by molecular dynamics as described in Materials and Methods . The region of the ligand-binding sites is shown in the figure , with NMS and strychnine  or with QNB and gallamine  at the ortho- and allosteric sites , respectively . The electrostatic potential of each ligand is displayed on a molecular surface within 4 . The values and corresponding arrows are the distances between the centers of the cationic ammonium groups of the orthosteric and allosteric ligands . The closest such group is shown in the case of gallamine . The bound ligands are shown together with residues involved in receptor-ligand interactions . Chemical structures of allosteric and orthosteric ligands to the M2 muscarinic receptor . The ligands shown are: NMS , N-methylscopolamine; QNB , quinuclidinylbenzilate; Str , strychnine; and Gal , gallamine . Different liganded states of the receptor are identified as X_R_Y , where X and Y are the allosteric and orthosteric ligands , respectively . Occupancy is represented as O for a vacant site or as Str , Gal , NMS , or QNB for a ligand-occupied site . 019 A network of interactions serves as a conformational link between the allosteric and orthosteric sites . Three tyrosine residues form a hydrogen-bonded aromatic cap over the orthosteric site   . Between the cap and the allosteric site is a tryptophan residue that interacts with the cationic nitrogen atom of the allosteric ligand  . In the absence of an orthosteric ligand , the orientation of Trp422 is unfavorable for the interaction with a cationic allosteric ligand  . Effects of orthosteric and allsteric ligands on the aromatic cap and Trp422 . The three residues of the aromatic cap  and Trp422 are shown in an overlay of the results of three simulations: a vacant receptor  , a QNB-bound receptor  , and a receptor occupied by both QNB and gallamine  . The ligands are not shown . The receptor with QNB at the orthosteric site . The receptor with QNB at the orthosteric site and gallamine at the allosteric site . Here and elsewhere , different liganded states of the receptor are identified as X_R_Y , where X and Y are the allosteric and orthosteric ligands , respectively . Occupancy is represented as O for a vacant site or as Str  , Gal  , NMS , or QNB for a ligand-occupied site . Figure 5–figure supplement 3–Mean distances  between the α-carbon atoms of Tyr177 and Asn419 in the M2 receptor with different combinations of allosteric and orthosteric ligandsDOI: http://dx . Orientation of ligands at the orthosteric site . Strychnine adopts a similar pose at the vacant receptor and in the presence of either NMS  or QNB at the orthosteric site . The position of gallamine at a vacant receptor  is consistent throughout the simulation . At a QNB-bound receptor  , gallamine is pushed outward , and its orientation is more variable . The orthosteric ligands are not shown in  and  . Width of the vestibule to the orthosteric site . Changes in the distance between the α-carbon atoms of Tyr177 and Asn419 were taken as a measure of the effect of an orthosteric ligand on the conformation of the allosteric site . The structures of the receptor with QNB  and iperoxo  at the orthosteric site are superimposed , and the allosteric site is shown as occupied by strychnine . The perspective is toward the extracellular surface of the receptor . org/10 . The distances from all frames of the molecular dynamics simulations over the production period of 30 ns are shown in the figure for a receptor with NMS  or QNB  at the orthosteric site . In each case , the allosteric site was vacant  , occupied by strychnine  , or occupied by gallamine  . org/10 . 025 Binding of NMS or QNB at the orthosteric site reduces the mobility of the residues of the aromatic cap  and orients Trp422 to interact with the cationic group of an allosteric ligand . The effect is greater with QNB than with NMS owing to the additional phenyl ring of QNB . Binding of an allosteric ligand draws the aromatic cap outward , leading to destabilization of the orthosteric ligand and greater flexibility in the region of the orthosteric site  . The effect is greater with gallamine than with strychnine , owing to the greater size and charge of gallamine , and it is suggestive of a reduction in the affinity of the receptor for orthosteric ligands . Gallamine and strychnine affect the conformation of the receptor through interactions between the cationic ammonium group of each allosteric ligand and the side-chains of Trp422 and Tyr177 . Gallamine also affects the receptor through π-cation interactions with Tyr80 and Tyr83 and through electrostatic interactions with Glu172 of the EDGE motif . That distance is a measure of the width of the vestibule  , and it differs among crystal structures of the M2 receptor in different liganded states  : namely , with QNB in the orthosteric site   , with iperoxo in the orthosteric site  , and with iperoxo in the orthosteric site and LY2119620 in the allosteric site   . The width of the vestibule in simulations with NMS or QNB at the orthosteric site was distributed as shown in Figure 5—figure supplement 3 . The allosteric site was vacant  or occupied by strychnine or gallamine  . When the allosteric site is vacant or occupied by strychnine , the vestibule is wider with QNB than with NMS at the orthosteric site . The vestibule is narrowest with strychnine and NMS . Other combinations of ligands have little or no effect owing to the bulk of QNB , the charge on gallamine , or both . Destabilisation of the aromatic cap plus the electrostatic repulsion that exists with all positively charged allosteric–orthosteric pairs seems likely to prevent the simultaneous binding of both ligands to a monomeric receptor . The least disruptive effects of one ligand on the binding of another occurred with NMS and strychnine owing , in part , to conformational flexibility afforded by one ligand at the site of the other . The most disruptive effects occurred with QNB and gallamine owing to interactions involving the second phenyl ring of the former and the additional cationic centers of the latter  . Allostery at the M2 muscarinic receptor generally has been understood in terms of interactions within a monomer  , but that view disregards the tendency of GPCRs to form oligomers  . Moreover , the oligomeric nature of the M2 receptor is evident in the multiphasic effects of allosteric ligands on the dissociation rate of orthosteric antagonists and their binding at equilibrium   . Such effects appear to involve at least four allosteric sites in a mix of intra- and intermolecular heterotropic interactions within a complex of receptors that is tetrameric or larger  . We show here that all such complexity is lost when the M2 receptor is purified as a monomer  . Gallamine and strychnine were strictly inhibitory in their effect on the binding of NMS and QNB , and the rate of dissociation of QNB was decreased at all concentrations of gallamine . Ligands therefore bind to monomers in the manner expected for a protein with one allosteric site and one orthosteric site , in contrast to the behavior of M2 receptors in myocardial membranes and unprocessed solubilized preparations . With either gallamine or strychnine , the potency defined by the single phase observed with monomers is similar to that defined by the weakest of the two or three components of the multiphasic curves observed with oligomers . It follows that effects associated with allosteric sites of higher affinity are a property of oligomers and derive from intermolecular interactions among the constituent protomers . They include the positive effect of gallamine on the rate of dissociation of QNB  and varied effects on the binding of NMS at equilibrium: namely , negative cooperativity at sites of high affinity for gallamine  , apparent positive cooperativity at sites of intermediate affinity for gallamine  , and positive cooperativity at sites of high affinity for strychnine  . In the case of gallamine , two further lines of evidence from CHO cells confirm the existence of heterotropic interactions between neighboring protomers and the relationship between those interactions and the allosteric sites of higher affinity . First , mutants lacking either the allosteric site or the orthosteric site were copurified from cotransfected cells to obtain a heteromer that lacks the capacity for intramolecular interactions . The purified complex retained the sites of high and intermediate affinity for gallamine that are seen in native preparations of the wild-type receptor but not the site of low affinity  ; whereas the former are associated with oligomers , only the latter is observed in monomers . Second , the orthosteric site was eliminated in an M2 receptor bearing mCherry at the N-terminus and FlAsH in ECL2 , which together serve as a FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site  . The FRET efficiency of the binding-deficient mutant was affected by NMS only when the mutant was co-expressed with the wild-type receptor  . Three lines of evidence indicate that the FRET-based sensor reports primarily on changes at the allosteric site . A comparison of the fluorescence anisotropies measured for eGFP fused to the N-terminus of the M2 receptor suggests that the region of the fusion is comparatively rigid and unaffected by orthosteric ligands . In contrast , the FRET efficiency of the sensor expressed alone in CHO cells was increased or decreased by orthosteric ligands in a manner that tracked the pharmacological identity of the ligand as an agonist , a partial agonist , or an inverse agonist  . Ligand-dependent changes in FRET between FlAsH and mCherry therefore appear to result from changes in the position of ECL2-bound FlAsH . Finally , NMS increased the FRET efficiency by 20 percentage points . Such a change is consistent with the predictions of molecular dynamics simulations for the effect of NMS on the width of the vestibule to the orthosteric site   . Allosteric and orthosteric ligands may interact via steric hindrance , conformational changes , or electrostatic effects . In the structure computed for a monomeric M2 receptor , the interaction between gallamine or strychnine on the one hand and NMS or QNB on the other is dominated by electrostatic repulsion  . That explains why gallamine and strychnine were inhibitory in their effect on the binding of NMS to purified monomers  , and it suggests a molecular basis for the weak affinities of both ligands in those assays . It also suggests that electrostatic repulsion dominates intramolecular cooperativity between allosteric and orthosteric ligands within the constituent protomers of an oligomer . The molecular dynamics simulations place each allosteric ligand at the extracellular surface , where it caps the vestibule to the orthosteric site and sterically hinders passage of the orthosteric antagonist  . This arrangement is consistent with crystallographic data on the location of a positive allosteric modulator , LY2119620  , and with the kinetics of allosteric modulation . A kinetically defined model that describes capping in a monomeric receptor  predicts that the rate at which the system equilibrates will depend upon the order in which the ligands are added to the receptor  . The predicted effects were observed experimentally with purified monomers of the M2 receptor , in that equilibration was slowest when NMS preceded strychnine  . A receptor  binds an orthosteric ligand  and an allosteric ligand  to form a ternary complex  . Each ligand can bind separately to form AR or RL , but the ternary complex is accessible only via RL . The orthosteric site of the M2 receptor is located within the cluster of helical domains , with access via a vestibule that forms the allosteric site . Occupancy of the latter by an allosteric ligand precludes association and dissociation of the orthosteric ligand . org/10 . 026 Allosteric effects in monomers are monophasic , necessarily intramolecular , exclusively negative , and of comparatively low affinity . Such intermolecular effects presumably are mediated by ligand-sensitive conformational changes transmitted from one protomer of receptor to another . Although the details of allosteric modulation cannot be determined through simulations based solely on a monomer , some insight into the effects observed with different ligand-pairs may be gained by monitoring the residues that form an aromatic cap over the orthosteric site  . Positive allosteric modulation by strychnine  , negative modulation by gallamine at sites of high affinity , and apparent positive modulation by gallamine at sites of intermediate affinity  occurred only with NMS as the radioligand . It appears , however , that the positive modulatory effects of strychnine and gallamine are different in kind . Whereas strychnine caused a net increase in the binding of NMS , gallamine never raised the level of binding above that in its absence . The effect of strychnine is a clear example of positive cooperativity , but that of gallamine appears to be an attenuation of negative cooperativity . Strychnine and NMS therefore were the only ligand-pair to display positive cooperativity that was self-evident and unambiguous . They also are the ligand-pair that caused minimal disruption of the aromatic cap in molecular dynamics simulations , and positive cooperativity may be a consequence of attendant conformational flexibility in that region of the receptor . The least flexibility was observed with QNB and gallamine , which engaged only in negative cooperativity . A similar pattern is seen in the distance between the α-carbon atoms of Tyr177 and Asn419 , which is a measure of the width of the vestibule that accommodates the allosteric ligand . Decreases in the width from that in the vacant receptor  were observed only with NMS at the orthosteric site of an otherwise vacant receptor  and only with strychnine at the allosteric site of a NMS-liganded receptor  . There was little effect of QNB alone or of other ligand-pairs . Direct evidence for interactions between the protomers of an oligomer has been obtained by precluding intramolecular effects in studies involving the FRET-based sensor and the binding of NMS , and molecular dynamics simulations have provided some insight into the underlying conformational effects . Such an arrangement would allow an allosteric ligand to bind with high affinity to protomers with a vacant orthosteric site and thereby to increase the binding of an orthosteric ligand to linked protomers with a vacant allosteric site . Both monomers and oligomers can activate G proteins , and both display allosteric communication between agonists at the receptor and guanylyl nucleotides at the G protein  . In the case of the M2 muscarinic receptor , however , the two forms mediate those effects by different mechanisms . Only oligomers mimic the binding patterns observed in native membranes  . We show here that oligomers of the M2 receptor also are responsible for the high-affinity binding of allosteric ligands and for positive allosteric modulation . The human M2 muscarinic receptor was used throughout , and all sequences were confirmed by DNA sequencing  . Strychnine , gallamine , carbachol , pilocarpine , and unlabeled NMS and QNB were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich . Bobsd=  e−kobsdt+Bt→∞ Time-courses at one or more concentrations of gallamine were accompanied in the same experiment by a control lacking the allosteric ligand . The value of kobsd measured in the absence of gallamine was designated k0 and used to normalize each value measured in the presence of gallamine  . Dose-dependent effects of an allosteric modulator  on the normalized rate of dissociation of the radioligand  or on the level of total binding at a specified time  were analyzed empirically in terms of Equation 2 . Yobsd=Y→∞+  ∑j=1nFjKjnH  tnH  KjnH  ∑j=1nFj=1 Estimates of binding at graded concentrations of NMS were analyzed in terms of Equation 3 . Y=kDEmD+kAEmA  Y=kBEmB+kDEmD+kAEmA The constants EmD and EmA represent the reference spectra for the donor  and acceptor  , respectively; EmB represents the reference spectrum for eGFP , which was used as a marker for receptor with an intact orthosteric site when co-expressed with a binding-defective mutant . Time-dependent binding of an orthosteric ligand  to a monomeric receptor  was simulated according to Figure 6 , in which access to and egress from the orthosteric site is precluded by an allosteric ligand  . The system is defined by four ordinary differential equations  , which were solved numerically to obtain the amount of bound orthosteric ligand at different times  . It was assumed that neither ligand is depleted through binding to the receptor , and the free concentrations in Equation 13 were taken as equal to the total concentrations . 
Histone modifications establish the chromatin states that coordinate the DNA damage response . In this study , we show that SETD2 , the enzyme that trimethylates histone H3 lysine 36  , is required for ATM activation upon DNA double-strand breaks  . Moreover , we find that SETD2 is necessary for homologous recombination repair of DSBs by promoting the formation of RAD51 presynaptic filaments . In agreement , SETD2-mutant clear cell renal cell carcinoma  cells displayed impaired DNA damage signaling . However , despite the persistence of DNA lesions , SETD2-deficient cells failed to activate p53 , a master guardian of the genome rarely mutated in ccRCC and showed decreased cell survival after DNA damage . We propose that this novel SETD2-dependent role provides a chromatin bookmarking instrument that facilitates signaling and repair of DSBs . In ccRCC , loss of SETD2 may afford an alternative mechanism for the inactivation of the p53-mediated checkpoint without the need for additional genetic mutations in TP53 . DNA double-strand breaks  are the most catastrophic form of DNA damage and pose great threat to genome stability . The major sensor of DSBs is ataxia telangiectasia mutated  kinase , which is critical for the initial steps of the DNA damage response  . In response to DSBs , ATM phosphorylates and regulates the activity of several substrates involved in DNA repair , such as p53-binding protein 1  and histone H2AX  . DNA damage challenges chromatin integrity by eliciting the destabilization and reorganization of its structure  . The most studied response of histones to DNA damage is the phosphorylation of the histone variant H2AX , which serves as a molecular beacon that signals the presence of DNA damage  . Phosphorylated H2AX  arises within minutes after DNA damage and has a key role in the recruitment of multiple DDR factors to the repair centers  . A role of H3K36me3 in maintaining chromatin integrity was recently disclosed by the finding that the DNA mismatch repair  protein MutSα binds H3K36me3 and that SETD2 is necessary for human DNA MMR , a mechanism that corrects mismatches generated during DNA replication  . Nevertheless , whether SETD2 impinges on the cell's ability to cope with DNA DSBs is not yet known . In this study , we investigate the role of SETD2 on the cellular response to DNA DSBs . Our findings identify a novel role of this histone methyltransferase in rendering cells competent to repair DSBs . We demonstrate using powerful reporter assays that SETD2 is necessary for the DDR and that depletion of SETD2 impairs ATM activation and leads to delayed recruitment of 53BP1 to sites of DSBs . Our data further reveal that SETD2 is required for the recruitment of RAD51 to resected DNA 5′ ends and SETD2-depleted cells show reduced homology-directed repair of DSBs . SETD2 mutations were recently found in several cancers , such as clear cell renal cell carcinoma   . Herein , we further investigated whether the role of SETD2 in the DDR extends to the regulation of the p53-mediated checkpoint . We show that ccRCC cells carrying inactivating mutations on SETD2 phenocopy the impaired DDR observed in SETD2 RNAi-depleted human cells . Importantly , SETD2 inactivation severed the p53-dependent cell cycle checkpoint despite the persistence of unrepaired DNA lesions in ccRCC cells . We propose that this unprecedented role of SETD2 in the DDR constitutes a novel tumor suppressor mechanism that could explain the high frequency of SETD2 mutations found in several cancers and may provide an alternative mechanism for evasion of the p53-mediated checkpoint in TP53 wt ccRCC cells . To assay how SETD2 impinges on the cellular response to chemically induced DSBs , we monitored the DDR by measuring the dynamics of phosphorylation of the major DSB sensor ATM . We depleted SETD2 mRNA by RNA interference  using three different synthetic small interfering RNA duplexes , which resulted in a global loss of the H3K36me3 histone mark that persisted throughout the entire chase periods following the DNA damage  . In control cells , the levels of H3K36me3 remained constant during the DDR and were undistinguishable from those of undamaged cells , suggesting that this histone mark is not amplified following the DSBs  . In contrast , SETD2-depleted cells revealed a significant impairment in DNA damage signaling as revealed by decreased pATM levels detected upon treatment with each of the three drugs  . In agreement with impaired ATM activation , the phosphorylation levels of its downstream substrates H2AX and 53BP1 decreased in SETD2-depleted cells following treatment with NCS or , more appreciably , etoposide  . In DSBs induced by phleomycin , depletion of SETD2 had only a very mild impact on phosphorylation of 53BP1 or H2AX  suggesting that either the remaining pATM is sufficient to transduce the DNA damage signaling or that alternative ATM-independent pathways operate in phleomycin-induced DSBs . SETD2 is necessary for ATM activation during the DNA damage response . Control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted U2OS cells were challenged with etoposide  , NCS  or phleomycin  and chased in fresh media during the indicated time points . 003 To directly visualize how does ablation of SETD2 impinge on 53BP1 nucleation at sites of DNA damage , we tracked 53BP1-GFP fusion proteins in live-cells upon induction of DSBs with a 405 nm laser  . In control cells , 53BP1-GFP was recruited to damaged chromatin within 2 min after laser micro-irradiation and was retained at the sites of damage during the 15 min of live-cell recording . In contrast , recruitment of 53BP1-GFP to irradiated chromatin was significantly delayed in SETD2-depleted cells  . Importantly , SETD2 RNAi had no appreciable effects on the total cellular levels of 53BP1-GFP  . SETD2 promotes 53BP1 recruitment to DNA damage sites . 53BP1-GFP transfected U2OS cells were damaged by laser irradiation of the indicated nuclear region . The dynamics of 53BP1-GFP during the DNA damage response on control and SETD2-depleted cells was monitored by live cell imaging for 15 min after laser irradiation . Control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted U2OS cells were transfected with a 53BP1-GFP expression plasmid . SETD2-GFP transfected U2OS cells were lysed and processed for western blot with antibodies against GFP  , H3K36me3 and α-tubulin . Live-cell images of SETD2-GFP dynamics were recorded upon laser-induced DNA damage of the indicated nuclear region of U2OS cells during 15 min  H3K36me3 was immunoprecipitated from MNase-digested U2OS cell extracts and each of the four nucleosomal histones was detected by immunoblotting of the SDS-PAGE resolved complexes . The length of the DNA fragments is indicated on the left . 005 We then investigated whether SETD2 is actively recruited to DSB sites . For that , we engineered a SETD2-GFP fusion protein and tracked it in live cells upon laser-induced DNA damage  . In agreement with the lack of fluctuations of the H3K36me3 levels following DSBs  , SETD2-GFP did not accumulate at the laser micro-irradiated regions  . These data reveal that both 53BP1 and H3K36me3 are present in the same nucleosomes that acquire γH2AX upon DNA damage . Altogether , these findings further support the view that H3K36me3 contributes to the establishment of the chromatin state that coordinates the recruitment and activation of DDR factors , even though SETD2 is not actively recruited to DNA damage sites . The binding of 53BP1 to damaged chromatin tilts the balance between the DNA repair pathways towards NHEJ by preventing 5′ end resection of the broken DNA ends  . We therefore investigated whether SETD2 depletion favors DNA 5′ end resection and repair of DSBs by HR . Upon depletion of SETD2 by RNAi , the amount of DNA measured by quantitative real-time PCR at 250 bp , 300 bp , 350 bp and 2200 bp apart from the I-SceI site was only 53% , 62% , 57% , and 71% , respectively , of the DNA levels present in control cells  . These data reveal that ablation of SETD2 leads to persistent DNA 5′ end resection of DSBs . In agreement , phosphorylation of RPA  , an event that is directly linked to efficient DNA 5′ end resection  , was detected in SETD2-depleted cells within the first hour after DNA damage with NCS and reached equilibrium after 6 to 8 hr , when its levels were similar to control cells  . Following DNA damage , the recruitment of RPA to DNA repair centers is revealed by the formation of repair-associated foci , a process that can be visualized by immunofluorescence  . At 8 hr after NCS treatment , widespread RPA foci were observed in the nuclei of both control and SETD2 RNAi cells , suggesting that recruitment of RPA to DNA lesion sites is independent of SETD2 activity . As expected , RPA foci were visible only in cyclin A-positive cells that are in S or G2 phase of the cell cycle  . SETD2-independent DNA 5′ end resection and RPA recruitment to DSBs . Direct measurement of DNA 5′ end resection at the I-SceI site of the GFP gene in control and SETD2-depleted U2OS DR-GFP cells . The percentage of non-resected DNA at 250 bp , 300 bp , 350 bp , and 2200 bp from the I-SceI restriction site is shown . The percentage of DNA at each location was set to 100% in control cells . Means and standard deviations from five independent experiments using two distinct siRNAs targeting SETD2 are shown . Control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted U2OS cells were challenged with NCS during 30 min and chased in fresh media during the indicated time points . Immunofluorescence of control and SETD2 RNAi depleted U2OS cells before and 8 hr after NCS treatment was performed with antibodies against RPA and cyclin A . The graph shows the percentage of cells with more than 20 RPA foci . 006 The HR-mediated repair of DSBs requires the recruitment of different DNA-repair factors including BRCA1 to the site of damage . Upon NCS treatment , abundant BRCA1 foci were formed in control and SETD2-depleted cells that stained positively for cyclin A  . This result is consistent with the SETD2-independent DNA 5′ end resection and suggests that BRCA1 recruitment to DSBs is largely unaffected by SETD2 depletion  . SETD2 promotes RAD51 recruitment to DSBs during DNA repair . Immunofluorescence of control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted U2OS cells before and 8 hr after NCS treatment was performed with antibodies against BRCA1  or RAD51  . 007 BRCA1-mediated DNA 5′ end resection and phosphorylation of RPA precede the formation of RAD51 filaments on the DNA single-stranded 3′ overhangs that promote the search for homologous DNA sequences and strand exchange  . We then inspected the recruitment of RAD51 to broken DNA ends on control and SETD2-depleted cells . Notably , RAD51 was recruited to DSBs in a SETD2-dependent manner . Upon SETD2 RNAi-depletion , the percentage of U2OS cells with ≥5 foci at 8 hr and 24 hr post-NCS treatment  was significantly reduced in comparison to control cells   . These data establish a presynaptic role of SETD2 that promotes the recruitment of RAD51 to resected DNA ends . To directly evaluate the impact of this SETD2-dependent role on the efficiency of HR , we depleted SETD2 from U2OS cells stably expressing the DR-GFP reporter . In agreement with the impaired RAD51 recruitment , SETD2-depleted cells exhibited a strong reduction  in HR without detectable differences in the cell cycle progression  . SETD2 is required for homologous recombination DNA repair . The efficiency of homologous recombination in control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted cells was investigated by measuring the fraction of GFP + cells in the U2OS DR-GFP reporter assay . Means and standard deviations from five independent experiments using two distinct siRNAs targeting SETD2 are shown . Cell cycle progression of control and SETD2-depleted U2OS DR-GFP cells was obtained by flow cytometry analysis of propidium iodide staining . 008 A high frequency of SETD2 mutations was recently disclosed in several cancers , of which clear cell renal cell carcinoma  shows the highest SETD2 mutation rate  . Our present findings suggest that impaired DDR proficiency constitutes a hallmark of SETD2 mutant cancers and could reveal a novel mechanism through which SETD2 suppresses tumor development and growth . To further test this view , we inspected the DDR in ccRCC cell lines containing inactivating mutations in SETD2 that result in a strong reduction of H3K36me3 levels   . Notably , induction of DSBs in the ccRCC cells resulted in activation of the DDR in a SETD2-dependent manner . Two different SETD2 wild-type  cell lines  responded to DNA damage with the rapid formation of γH2AX foci and ATM phosphorylation within the first 30 min of the DDR  . In contrast , DNA repair was significantly impaired in two SETD2 mutant ccRCC cell lines  as revealed by the lack of γH2AX foci and ATM phosphorylation upon induction of DSBs  . These data recapitulate the phenotype of SETD2 RNAi-depleted U2OS cells and suggest that defects in the DDR are a hallmark of cancer cells with SETD2 mutations . We then attempted to perform a genetic complementation experiment with our SETD2-GFP transgene to rescue the SETD2 mutant phenotype . However , despite our efforts , we were not able to obtain a SETD2 mutant ccRCC cell population expressing the transgene . One possibility is that loss of SETD2 function in the mutant ccRCC cells feeds a cellular proliferation mechanism that if disrupted upon transfection of the wt SETD2-GFP decreases cell viability . Nevertheless , we consistently observed a similar phenotype of impaired DDR in 4 different ccRCC cell lines  carrying inactivating mutations in distinct regions of SETD2  . Amongst the SETD2 mutant cell lines , RCC-FG2 had the lowest levels of H3K36me3 and showed the strongest impairment in the DDR signaling as revealed by the lack of detectable pATM and γH2AX  . We shall note that RCC-JW cells carry a missense mutation on SETD2 exon 3 , which does not interfere with the methyltransferase activity of the enzyme , and for this reason , we classified them as SETD2 wt   . In fact , concerning the DDR , RCC-JW cells behaved equally to two additional SETD2 wt ccRCC cell lines  that were also used on our experiments . ccRCC cells with inactivating mutations on SETD2 show impaired DNA damage signalling . The H3K36me3 levels of SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells were inspected with an antibody against H3K36me3 by immunofluorescence  . Immunofluorescence of SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells before and 30 min after etoposide treatment for 15 min was performed with an antibody against γH2AX . Two SETD2 wt  and two SETD2 mutant  cell lines were challenged with etoposide during 15 min and chased in fresh media during the indicated time points . 009 To investigate if alternative DDR pathways were able to efficiently repair the DSBs in the SETD2 mutant cells , we measured the kinetics of DNA repair in ccRCC cells using comet assays  . Chemical induction of DSBs yielded a similar degree of DNA damage in both SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells , as revealed by the comparable fraction of DNA that migrated away from the nuclei and was detected in the comets tails immediately after etoposide treatment  . However , these cells differed in their ability to repair the chemically induced DSBs . The amount of fragmented DNA decreased 35% after 3 hr and 45% after 6 hr in the wt cells , which compared to a maximum of 27% reduction observed in mutant cells 6 hr after DNA damage  . These results were recapitulated with an additional set of SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells , which repaired 49%  and 31%  of the DNA damage in 6 hr  . These findings reveal that the impaired DDR observed in SETD2 mutant cells translates into a massive failure to repair DSBs , which is likely to impact severely on genomic stability and may sustain the tumorigenic phenotype . Repair of double-strand breaks is compromised in SETD2 mutant ccRCC cells . The amount of DNA damage immediately after induction of DSBs with etoposide and 3 and 6 hr after treatment was estimated by comet assay on SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells . Graphs depict the % of DNA in the tail of each individual comet . Repair of double-strand breaks in SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells . The amount of DNA damage 6 hr after etoposide treatment was estimated by comet assay on an additional pair of SETD2 wt  and mutant  cells . Graphs depict the % of DNA in the tail of each individual comet . 011 In circumstances where DNA damage reaches an irreversible stage , specific cell cycle checkpoints are in place to prevent catastrophic cell cycle progression  . The DNA damage checkpoints employ sensor proteins , such as ATM , to detect DNA damage and to initiate signal transduction cascades that activate p53 and inactivate cyclin-dependent kinases causing inhibition of cell cycle progression  . The tumor suppressor p53 is a direct substrate of ATM kinase  and is a master effector of the DNA damage cell cycle checkpoints  . We therefore evaluated both p53 phosphorylation and its total protein levels in response to DNA damage . The two SETD2 wt ccRCC cell lines  responded to DSBs with p53 phosphorylation and increased total p53 protein levels 2 hr after initiating the DDR  . In contrast , despite the persistent DNA damage caused by the impaired DDR , SETD2 mutant ccRCC cells  evaded the cell cycle checkpoint as revealed by the low levels of p53 phosphorylation and unnoticeable change of its total protein levels  . Indeed , p21 protein levels rose significantly 2 hr after DNA damage in SETD2 wt cells , but not in their mutant counterparts  . To exclude the contribution of SETD2-independent mechanisms due to the different genetic backgrounds of the SETD2 wt and mutant cells , we measured p53 checkpoint activation in SETD2 RNAi cells upon treatment with etoposide , NCS or phleomycin  . SETD2 RNAi-depleted ccRCC cells phenocopied the severed p53 cell cycle checkpoint observed in SETD2 mutant ccRCC cells . In response to each of the three DNA-damaging agents , control cells increased the total levels of p53 and p21 , whereas SETD2-depleted cells failed to activate p53  . SETD2 is required for p53 activation following DNA damage . SETD2 wt and mutant ccRCC cells were challenged with etoposide during 15 min and chased in fresh media during the indicated time points . SETD2 wt ccRCC cells were depleted for SETD2 by RNAi , treated with etoposide  , NCS  or phleomycin  during the indicated periods of time and chased in fresh media . 012 To further examine whether SETD2 is necessary for DNA damage-induced cell-cycle checkpoints , we performed flow cytometry-based cell-cycle profiling analyses in control and SETD2 RNAi depleted U2OS cells . Cells were treated with phleomycin to activate G1/S and G2/M DNA damage checkpoints . In contrast , only 42%  and 34%  of cells were arrested in G1 phase , whereas 41%  and 48%  were at G2 phase upon SETD2 depletion . These results suggest that SETD2 depletion leads to a defective G1/S cell-cycle arrest , which is in agreement with the deficient activation of p53 . SETD2 regulates the p53-dependent cell-cycle checkpoint and cell survival following DNA damage . Control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted cells were treated with 40 μM of phleomycin to induce cell-cycle checkpoints . Control and SETD2 RNAi-depleted cells were treated with phleomycin at indicated concentrations and clonogenic survival was measured 10 days after treatment . 013 To investigate whether SETD2 affects the cell survival rate in response to DNA damage , we depleted U2OS cells for SETD2 by RNAi and tested their capacity for clonogenic survival after phleomycin treatment  . 10 days after DNA damage , the colony-forming capacity of control cells was significantly higher than SETD2-depleted cells . This result suggests that SETD2 is a determinant of cell survival after DNA damage . Combined , these data point to a novel role of SETD2 that can explain the puzzling observation that ccRCC often evade the p53 cell-cycle checkpoint despite a very low frequency of TP53 mutations  . In this study , by focusing on the pathways that repair DSBs upon RNAi depletion of SETD2 , we reveal that this histone methyltransferase is necessary for the DDR . We show that SETD2 is required for the activation of ATM following DNA damage . In agreement with the impaired ATM activation , spreading of γH2AX and 53BP1 phosphorylation was greatly compromised in SETD2-depleted cells treated with NCS or etoposide , but only marginally affected in DSBs induced by phleomycin . In fact , ionizing radiation-induced H2AX phosphorylation and recruitment of 53BP1 to DSBs can be carried out by ATM and DNA-dependent protein kinase  in a redundant manner  . 53BP1 nucleation at DNA-damaged chromatin plays an important role in favoring DNA repair by NHEJ  . In agreement , we found that induction of DSBs resulted in a significant impairment of the 53BP1 recruitment and increased DNA 5′ end resection in SETD2-depleted cells . Exonuclease-mediated resection of DNA ends is known to promote phosphorylation of RPA and to orchestrate an ATM-to-ATR switch at DNA breaks  . This switch in the main DNA damage sensor provides a reasonable explanation for the RPA phosphorylation and the proficient RPA recruitment to DSBs despite the impaired ATM activation in SETD2-depleted cells . Depletion of LEDGF impairs the recruitment of CtIP and the subsequent DNA 5′ end resection of DSBs . While defects in LEDGF recruitment to DSBs may account for the impaired HR phenotype that we report in SETD2 deficient cells , our data supports an extended LEDGF-independent role of SETD2 in the repair of DSBs by HR . Our findings that DNA 5′ end resection and RPA foci formation are not severely compromised in SETD2-depleted cells disclose a specific presynaptic role for SETD2 that is necessary for the recruitment of RAD51 to single-stranded DNA . 3 at DSBs and facilitates RAD51 recruitment and efficient HR repair . Hence , additional studies are needed to fully elucidate the mechanistic basis of the SETD2 impact on the DDR . Unlike all histone modifications found to promote the DDR , previous studies  and our data show no evidence of increased H3K36me3 levels at the DNA damage sites or of a DDR-dependent recruitment of SETD2 to DSBs . Should a DSB amputate a coding region , exposure of H3K36me3 previously deposited by SETD2 traveling with the transcriptional machinery may promote DNA repair by HR and would guarantee the integrity of the genetic information . From all cancers on which SETD2 mutations have been reported , ccRCC shows the highest mutation rate  . Our present findings reveal that SETD2 mutant ccRCC cells have impaired DDR signaling which leads to inefficient repair of DNA damage . However , the p53-dependent cell cycle checkpoint is not activated in SETD2-deficient cells despite the persistence of DNA damage . Depletion of SETD2 abrogates p53 activation , and leads to eviction of the G1/S checkpoint upon DNA damage . In addition to the defects in the DNA damage signaling that we found in SETD2-depleted cells , which could extend to improper p53 activation , it is also possible that SETD2 impinges directly on p53 activity and activation of its downstream targets through direct protein–protein interactions  . Furthermore , in the absence of SETD2 , the capacity for clonogenic survival following DNA damage is significantly reduced . These findings integrate SETD2 into the p53 regulatory network and provide a reasonable explanation for the intriguing observation that inactivation of this master regulator of cell cycle checkpoints in ccRCC is rarely caused by mutations in TP53  . CcRCC is an example of a cancer , where a high rate of genomic alterations occurs in parallel to inactivating mutations and deletions of histone modifiers , such as SETD2  . Our findings endorse the classification of SETD2 as a tumor suppressor and place inactivating mutations in this histone modifier at the peak of a harmful cascade of events that may ultimately drive malignant cell transformation and tumor development . SETD2 RNAi was achieved using three different synthetic siRNA duplexes targeting SETD2   . The SETD2 cDNA was cloned into the pEGFP-C1 vector  in a ligation reaction containing two fragments . A fragment containing 5257 bp from the 3′ end of SETD2 was obtained by digestion of pCR-XL-TOPO-SETD2  with SpeI and PstI . A fragment containing the 5′ end of SETD2 was obtained by PCR amplification of pCR-XL-TOPO-SETD2 using primers containing BglII and SpeI restriction sites . This construct was confirmed by DNA sequencing . The cells were then permeabilized with 0 . To follow the dynamics of GFP-tagged 53BP1  or SETD2-GFP during the DDR , live-cell images were recorded during 15 min after laser-irradiation . Control or SETD2-depleted U2OS cells were transfected with expression plasmids for 53BP1-GFP or SETD2-GFP using Lipofectamine 2000  according to the manufacturers's protocol . After 24 hr , siRNAs targeting either firefly luciferase  or SETD2 were transfected using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX  . The percentage of GFP+ cells was estimated using FlowJo  . For analysis of cell cycle checkpoints , control or SETD2-depleted U2OS cells were treated with 40 μM phleomycin for 30 min , washed and cultured in fresh medium for 8 and 12 hr before flow cytometry analysis of the cell cycle progression . For analysis of clonogenic survival , cells were reverse-transfected with SETD2 and control  siRNAs , seeded in 10-cm dishes  and 2 days later treated for 30 min with phleomycin at various concentrations . The extent of DNA 5′ end resection was analyzed by RT-qPCR analysis of the DNA surrounding the I-SceI site of the GFP gene integrated in the U2OS cells  transfected with the I-SceI expression plasmid . The amount of DNA was corrected for the I-SceI digestion efficiency by normalizing the data against the amount of DNA flanking the restriction site . DNA double-strand breaks in SETD2 wt or mutant ccRCC cells were detected by neutral comet assay using the CometAssay kit  according to the manufacturer's instructions . 
Here we analyze a new mouse missense variant , Rasgrp1Anaef , with an ENU-mutated EF hand in the Rasgrp1 Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor . Rasgrp1Anaef mice exhibit anti-nuclear autoantibodies and gradually accumulate a CD44hi Helios+ PD-1+ CD4+ T cell population that is dependent on B cells . Despite reduced Rasgrp1-Ras-ERK activation in vitro , thymocyte selection in Rasgrp1Anaef is mostly normal in vivo , although CD44 is overexpressed on naïve thymocytes and T cells in a T-cell-autonomous manner . Elevated tonic mTOR-S6 signaling occurs in Rasgrp1Anaef naïve CD4+ T cells . CD44 expression , CD4+ T cell subset ratios and serum autoantibodies all returned to normal in Rasgrp1AnaefMtorchino double-mutant mice , demonstrating that increased mTOR activity is essential for the Rasgrp1Anaef T cell dysregulation . Three Ras guanine exchange factor  families can activate Ras: SOS , RasGRP , and RasGRF  . Biochemically , Rasgrp1 and SOS1 synergize to induce high-level Ras activation  and Rasgrp1 serves a critical role in priming SOS1 via Rasgrp1-produced RasGTP  . Consequentially , thymocyte development is severely impaired in Rasgrp1-deficient mice  , and not compensated for by SOS RasGEFs . Additionally , there is only minimal compensation for loss of Rasgrp1 coming from Rasgrp3 or Rasgrp4  . Rasgrp1-deficient mice exhibit a strong defect in positive selection and impaired ERK phosphorylation in thymocytes  . The importance of the canonical Rasgrp1-RasGTP-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway for developing thymocytes is further underscored by impaired positive selection in ERK-1 and -2 doubly deficient mice  . Rasgrp1 has been reported to bind calcium in vitro  . Genetic deletion of Rasgrp1’s 200 C-terminal amino acids reduces the formation of mature thymocytes in Rasgrp1d/d mice  . Our recent structural studies revealed that Rasgrp1’s C terminus contains a coiled-coil dimerization domain  . Rasgrp1 dimerization plays an important role in controlling Rasgrp1’s activity; the second EF hand of one Rasgrp1 molecule packs against the C1 domain of a second molecule in a manner that is incompatible with DAG-binding whereas calcium binding to the first EF hand is predicted to unlock this autoinhibitory dimer interface  . Lastly , it is unknown if Rasgrp1 may signal to pathways other than the canonical Rasgrp1-Ras-RAF-MEK-ERK cascade , although a link between Rasgrp1 and mTOR  signaling has been proposed  . Older Rasgrp1-deficient  and Rasgrp1d/d mice  develop splenomegaly and autoantibodies . In these mouse models , the complete deletion or truncation of Rasgrp1 greatly decreases T cell development in the thymus  , resulting in peripheral T cell lymphopenia followed by accumulation of CD44hi CD62Llo CD4+ T cells  . Common tag SNVs near RASGRP1 are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune  diabetes and to thyroid autoantibodies in Graves’ disease  , while 13 unstudied RASGRP1 missense SNVs are currently listed in public databases . Here we describe the analysis of a novel ENU-induced missense variant , Rasgrp1Anaef that reveals an important in vivo regulatory function of Rasgrp1’s EF hands . Rasgrp1Anaef is distinct from previously described autoimmune mutations in Rasgrp1 , Zap70 or Lat , as Rasgrp1Anaef has no detectable effect on thymocyte development in mice with normal TCR repertoires , but results in peripheral accumulation of a distinct population of Helios+ PD-1+ T-helper cells and production of anti-nuclear autoantibodies . In contrast to Rasgrp1 deletion , the Rasgrp1Anaef missense variant increases tonic mTOR signaling in naïve CD4+ T cells . Genetic reduction of mTOR function in Rasgrp1Anaef mice normalizes CD44 expression on naïve CD4+ T cells and abolishes excessive accumulation of effector T cells and autoantibodies , demonstrating a central role for increased mTOR activity in driving immune dysregulation in Rasgrp1Anaef mice . As part of a mouse genome-wide screen for immune phenotypes induced by ENU mutagenesis  , we identified a variant C57BL/6  pedigree displaying elevated frequencies of CD44hi CD4+ cells  , elevated CD44 expression on naïve FOXP3− CD44lo CD4+ cells  and antinuclear antibodies  staining with a homogeneous nuclear pattern  . An ENU mouse mutant with increased CD44hi CD4 cells and anti-nuclear autoantibodies . Representative flow cytometry showing on peripheral blood CD4+ cells  CD44 expression with the gate used to define CD44hi cells and  FOXP3 vs CD44 phenotype including normalized CD44 Mean Fluorescence Intensity  of the gated CD44lo FOXP3− subset from Rasgrp1+/+  , heterozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/+ or homozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef mice . Rasgrp1Anaef mouse and wildtype littermate , measured by indirect immunofluorescence on HEp-2 cells . Quantitation of positive ANA results for wildtype , Rasgrp1Anaef/+ and Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef C57Bl/6xC57Bl/10 siblings tested at 15 weeks of age . Mapping and genotyping of the Rasgrp1 mutation in ENU mutant mice with anti-nuclear antibodies and CD44hi phenotype . The Rasgrp1 gene lies in this interval . Genotyping of Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef , Rasgrp1Anaef/WT , and wildtype mice in the Roose lab was performed using MS-PCR as described  . Genotyping of Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef , Rasgrp1Anaef/WT , and wildtype mice using Amplifluor PCR in the Goodnow Lab . The Rasgrp1Anaef strain was established through ethylnitrosourea  -mediated mutagenesis of B6 mice at the Australian National University as previously described  . Rasgrp1’s arginine residue at 519 is also found in Rasgrp-2 , and -4 , and in EF3 of calcium and integrin binding protein   . Unique to Rasgrp1 , this linker is unusually short . Mapping of the ENU mutation to the autoinhibitory second EF hand domain in Rasgrp1 . Sequence trace of Rasgrp1Anaef exon 13 aligned to wildtype Rasgrp1 sequence . Sequence comparison of CaM  , CIB  and Rasgrp1 , -2 , -3 and -4 EF hands with conserved residues highlighted . Model including the atypical second EF hand in RasGRP1  . RasGRP1’s second EF hand does not bind calcium and the E helix has evolved into an autoinhibitory domain  . Western blot for Rasgrp1 protein in thymocytes from Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef  , heterozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/WT  , heterozygous Rasgrp1Null/WT  , and wildtype  mice . Relative Rasgrp1 expression was calculated and is shown . Note the expression of Rasgrp1’s typical doublet , thought to be due to alternative translation initiation  . 005 The ENU-generated allele was named ‘Rasgrp1Anaef’ to reflect the combination of antinuclear antibody  production and the amino acid substitution in the EF hand . Genotyping of this mutation in multiple generations of B6 offspring  demonstrated that inheritance of the Rasgrp1Anaef allele was well correlated with the immunological abnormalities described above and below . ANAs were present in 70% of homozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef mice and 35% of heterozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/+ mice  , compared to 5% of wildtype B6 mice , indicating a gene dosage effect . The R519G substitution caused an approximate 40% decrease in Rasgrp1 protein levels in homozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef thymocytes  . Since heterozygous Rasgrp1+/− thymocytes express half the Rasgrp1 dosage  but do not display an abnormal immune phenotype  , whereas heterozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/+ mice do exhibit abnormal immune phenotypes  , we conclude that the immune dysregulation in mice bearing the Rasgrp1Anaef allele is caused by the specific R519G alteration and not simply by a reduction of Rasgrp1 protein levels . In the remainder of the manuscript we discuss the analysis of homozygous Rasgrp1Anaef/Anaef mice and refer to these as Rasgrp1Anaef mice . Analysis of Rasgrp1Anaef mice revealed a striking contrast to the published Rasgrp1-deficient and Rasgrp1d/d mouse models , which have T cell developmental defects that result in low thymic T cell output  . The frequency and number of mature CD4+ and CD8+ single positive  thymocyte subsets was normal in Rasgrp1Anaef mice , whereas these subsets were markedly decreased in Rasgrp1−/−  mice analyzed in parallel  . Unlike the knockout allele , the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation did not decrease the frequency of CD69hi TCRβhi cells amongst CD4+CD8+ double positive  thymocytes  or the number of Foxp3+ CD4SP cells in the thymus  . Even in bone marrow chimeras reconstituted with a mixture of CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef and CD45 . 1+ wildtype marrow , the Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes exhibited no competitive disadvantage as they matured from DP to SP cells  . Injection into mice of 5-bromo-2′-deoxyuridine  to pulse-label a cohort of proliferating DP thymocytes followed by analysis on day 5 demonstrated that the kinetics of maturation into SP cells was unaffected by the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation  . Br mice  and similar usage of TCRα Jα segments in wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef CD4SP thymocyte populations  . Thus , analysis of the thymus of Rasgrp1Anaef mice with a diverse TCR repertoire revealed no abnormalities in positive selection , Foxp3+ T-regulatory  cell differentiation or clonal deletion , in striking contrast to previously described Rasgrp1 mutations . Rasgrp1Anaef differs from Rasgrp1null by preserving T cell selection in the thymus . CD4/CD8 phenotype of thymocytes in wildtype , Rasgrp1Anaef , and Rasgrp1-/- mice . Number of DP , CD4SP and CD8SP as well as Foxp3+ CD4SP thymocytes in wildtype  , Rasgrp1Anaef  , and Rasgrp1−/−  mice . Percentages of CD69hi TCRβhi cells among DP cells . Competitive repopulation of thymic subsets in irradiated CD45 . 1+ B6 recipient mice reconstituted with a mixture of CD45 . 1+ WT and CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef bone marrow cells . The percentage of CD45 . Mixed bone marrow chimeras bearing CD45 . 1+ WT and either CD45 . 2+ WT or CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef hematopoietic cells were injected i . The percentages of DP , CD4SP and CD8SP cells amongst BrdU-labeled CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef  or CD45 . Analysis of Jα usage in sorted CD4SP thymocytes of wildtype or Rasgrp1Anaef mice following published methods . Comparison of thymocyte maturation kinetics in WT and Rasgrp1Anaef . Histograms and plots show CD45 . 2+ Anaef thymocytes in mixed chimeras bearing CD45 . 1+ WT plus CD45 . 2+ Anaef hematopoietic cells . The histogram second from the left shows gates defining BrdU− and BrdU+ subsets of CD45 . 2+ Anaef thymocytes , each of which was analyzed for CD4 vs CD8 expression in the right two plots . The CD4/CD8 plots indicate that the BrdU+ subset has a higher frequency of SP cells , demonstrating the specificity of the BrdU+ gate . Gating defining DP , CD4SP and CD8SP subsets amongst BrdU+ cells  were used to compile Figure 2E . Analysis of Jα usage in sorted CD4+ SP thymocytes of wildtype or Anaef mice following published methods  . As described , CD14 was used as control . A representative experiment with CD4+ SP from three independent experiments is shown here . We did not observe significant differences in Jα segments between DP thymocytes from wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef mice either  . 007 Despite the normal thymic development in Rasgrp1Anaef animals , there was a striking biochemical effect of the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation on activation of the canonical Rasgrp1-Ras-ERK signaling pathway in a range of in vitro stimulation assays . GFP-tagged wildtype- or Anaef- Rasgrp1 was transiently expressed in RasGRP1-deficient Jurkat cells   , which were either left unstimulated or stimulated with a combination of PMA  and ionomycin  . Gating on cells with different GFP intensities  revealed that Rasgrp1Anaef was hypomorphic  for activating the Ras-ERK pathway: in GFP+ cells expressing Rasgrp1Anaef there was only low ERK phosphorylation  and this was only modestly increased when PMA and ionomycin were added  . Next , we stably reconstituted the JPRM441 cell line , which expresses ∼10% of residual wildtype RasGRP1 protein  with Rasgrp1Anaef or Rasgrp1wildtype vectors and selected clones with Rasgrp1 expression levels similar to the parental Jurkat cell line  . Since JPRM441 cells do not express surface TCR  , clonal cell lines were stimulated with PMA followed by RasGTP pull-down assays , which demonstrated that Rasgrp1Anaef decreased PMA-induced GTP-loading of Ras to levels below that of the nontransfected JPRM441 cells  . In the same transfected cell lines , PMA-induced P-ERK responses were decreased in Rasgrp1Anaef expressing cells , most notable with the lower dose of PMA  and contrasted the effective induction of P-ERK signals in Jurkat and JPRM441-WT-Rasgrp1 cells  . Similarly , Rasgrp1Anaef expressing cells demonstrated less potent synergy in P-ERK levels when ionomycin was combined with a very low PMA stimulus   . In fact , P-ERK responses in JPRM441-Rasgrp1Anaef cells were more impaired than in the parental JPRM441 cells , indicating a dominant negative effect , which was also observed at the level of Ras activation  . We previously reported a dominant negative effect for ΔDAG-Rasgrp1 , a form of Rasgrp1 lacking the DAG-binding C1 domain  and we postulated that there may be competition with the residual ∼10% of wildtype RasGRP1  . As Rasgrp1 is regulated by DAG-driven membrane recruitment  we examined this process for Rasgrp1Anaef . EGFP-tagged wildtype or Anaef Rasgrp1-transfected JPRM441 cells were FACS sorted on low GFP expression to avoid overexpression artifacts and cells were allowed to adhere to coated slides . PMA stimulation resulted in membrane recruitment and cytoplasmic clearing of wildtype Rasgrp1; whereas these events were decreased for Rasgrp1Anaef  . Rasgrp1Anaef diminishes in vitro signaling to Ras and ERK . RasGRP-1 deficient Jurkat cells  were transiently transfected with EGFP-tagged wildtype- or Anaef-RasGRP1 and RasGRP1-dose/P-ERK responses were determined by FACS . Jurkat , JPRM441 , and JPRM441 cells stably reconstituted with Anaef- or WT Rasgrp1 were left unstimulated or stimulated with 25 ng/ml PMA and RasGTP levels were determined through a RasGTP pull down assay . Results for JPRM441-Rasgrp1Anaef clones #68 are shown , similar results were obtained with clone #69 . EGFP-tagged constructs were transiently transfected into JPRM441 and RasGRP1 localization was determined for unstimulated and PMA-stimulated cells as described in the text . 50 images for the 2-min PMA stimulation were scored in a blinded manner and plotted with RasGRP1-Anaef in the black columns . Biochemical aspects of the Rasgrp1Anaef allele . Gating strategy for transiently expressed RasGRP1-EGFP in JPRM441 cells and analysis of ERK phosphorylation of cells expressing increasing doses of wildtype of Anaef RasGRP1 as depicted in the blue  , green  , and orange  color-coded cell populations , compared to ERK phosphorylation without transfected RasGRP1 in the filled brown histogram . JPRM441 were stably reconstituted with a construct expressing Rasgrp1Anaef  . Protein lysates from an equivalent number of cells were probed for expression of Rasgrp1 and α tubulin  . Percent expression of Rasgrp1 in each cell line  is shown . Rasgrp1Anaef protein levels in clones #68 and #69 were similar to those found in the parental Jurkat cell line and to expression of wildtype Rasgrp1 in a reconstituted JPRM441 clone 208 that we previously characterized  and were utilized in subsequent assays . 009 To test TCR-induced Ras-ERK signaling in thymocytes , we first stimulated thymocytes from wildtype or Rasgrp1Anaef mice with anti-CD3 crosslinking antibodies and probed lysates for tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins to examine the global biochemical effects of the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation . Rasgrp1’s GEF activity is also enhanced by phosphorylation on T184  . Using a new monoclonal antibody specific for P-T184-Rasgrp1  we observed drastically impaired phosphorylation of T184-Rasgrp1 , and reduced ERK phosphorylation in Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes  . By contrast , Rasgrp1+/− thymocytes heterozygous for the null allele displayed readily detectable Rasgrp1- and ERK- phosphorylation  , demonstrating that the signaling defects in the Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes are much greater than when the amount of Rasgrp1 is simply halved . Thymocyte subset-specific P-ERK analyses revealed reduced anti-CD3- and PMA-induced responses in DP , CD4SP , and CD8SP Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes  , echoing the cell line conclusion that the Anaef mutation results in a partial loss of function with respect to induced Ras-ERK signaling . When pressure was placed on TCR-Ras-ERK signaling for positive selection in vivo , by introducing any one of three different rearranged TCR transgenes that are prematurely expressed at higher than normal levels on DP thymocytes , a small decrease in positive selection was revealed in Rasgrp1Anaef TCR-transgenic thymocytes compared to their wildtype controls  . Rasgrp1Anaef signaling characteristics of in vitro stimulated thymocytes . Phosphorylation of PLCγ1 , Rasgrp1 , and ERK in total thymocytes from Rasgrp1Anaef and age-matched WT mice or Rasgrp1+/− and age-matched WT mice stimulated with anti-CD3 antibodies . Thymocytes from Rasgrp1Anaef and age-matched WT mice were stimulated with anti-CD3 antibody  and crosslinked using secondary antibody  for the indicated time points , fixed , and stained for intracellular p-ERK . Histograms show P-ERK staining on electronically gated DP , CD4SP or CD8SP thymocytes . Signaling characteristics of Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes . Thymocytes from Rasgrp1Anaef and age-matched WT mice were stimulated with anti-CD3 antibody  and whole cell lysates were analyzed for induction of tyrosine phosphorylated proteins  and for specific phospho-Lck and phospho-Zap70 residues . Surface TCR expression levels on Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes were indistinguishable from wildtype  . Note the induction of phosphorylated RasGRP1 in PMA-stimulated Jurkat cells and the reduction of this phosphor-RasGRP1 species in JPRM441 cells . Backblotting for total RasGRP1 levels was performed using a JR-E80-2 monoclonal antibody that recognizes human RasGRP1 . Thymocytes from Rasgrp1Anaef and age-matched WT mice were stimulated with PMA  for the indicated time points , fixed , and stained for intracellular p-ERK . Histograms show P-ERK staining on electronically gated CD4+CD8+  and CD4+ or CD8+ single positive thymocytes . Thymic selection in Rasgrp1Anaef mice carrying transgenic TCRs . Rasgrp1Anaef mice demonstrate a two to sixfold decrease in positive selection in the context of three different transgenic TCRs that are uniformly and strongly expressed early on during thymocyte development . Representative CD4/CD8 phenotype of the thymus after reconstitution of irradiated B10 . BR mice with 3A9 TCR transgenic bone marrow that was either WT or Anaef . Means and SEM number of CD4SP cells are shown on the right . Representative flow cytometry plots and quantitiation of thymocytes in HY TCR transgenic females that facilitate positive selection of CD8 cells on MHCI . Representative flow cytometry plots and quantitation of thymocytes in OTII TCR transgenic mice in which CD4 SP are selected on MHCII . 012 Given the evidence above for normal thymic formation of T cells in Rasgrp1Anaef animals with normal TCR genes , we sought to define the peripheral CD4+ cell dysregulation that results in an expanded population of CD44hi CD4+ T cells . Total splenocyte numbers and CD4 subsets were within the normal range in young Rasgrp1Anaef animals , but between 50 and 150 days of age the frequencies of activated or memory CD44hi Foxp3− CD4+ cells increased , as did Foxp3+ CD4 cells , while the frequency of CD44low Foxp3− naïve CD4+ cells decreased  . Rasgrp1Anaef results in dysregulation of peripheral CD4 T cells . Representative plots of wildtype or Rasgrp1Anaef CD4+ splenocytes subsetted into naïve  , activated/memory  , and T-reg  populations . Splenic cellularity and frequencies of the CD4+ subsets gated in  as a function of age in wildtype vs Rasgrp1Anaef mice; each dot represents one mouse  . Representative intracellular labeling of IFNγ , IL-4 , IL-2 or IL-17 on electronically gated Foxp3− CD4+ wildtype or Rasgrp1Anaef splenocytes that had been stimulated with PMA and ionomycin for 4 hr . Phenotype of CD4+ splenocytes showing a CXCR5+ PD-1hi gate for the TFH population  and a gate for the HELIOS+ PD-1+ population amongst Foxp3− CD4+ splenocytes  . Column graph shows mean ± SEM frequencies of these populations amongst CD4+ splenocytes in wildtype or Rasgrp1Anaef mice . Helios vs CD44 phenotype of Foxp3− CD4+ splenocytes  showing the gate for the CD44hi population , which was analyzed for expression of Helios and PD-1  . Column graph shows the mean ± SEM number of splenocytes within the CD44hi Foxp3− CD4+ subpopulations gated in the right plots  . 013 Further resolution of CD4+ subsets based on intracellular cytokine staining revealed that interferon-γ producing cells were increased in frequency by a similar magnitude as CD44hi cells as a whole  . Thus , there was no evidence that the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation skewed T-helper cells towards a Th1 phenotype , but simply increased the number of activated or memory/effector CD4+ cells . Staining for PD-1 and CXCR5 , whose high expression on CD4+ cells identifies T follicular helper  cells  revealed a dramatic expansion of these cells in Rasgrp1Anaef mice  . However most of the increase in CD44hi Foxp3− CD4+ cells in Rasgrp1Anaef mice was due to a 600% increase in cells that expressed intermediate levels of PD-1 and CXCR5 , and hence are unlikely to be TFH cells , but were distinguished by high expression of the Helios transcription factor  . Helios is highly expressed in Foxp3+ T-reg cells  , but in wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef mice Helios is also upregulated in a subset of Foxp3− CD4+ cells , nearly all of which are CD44hi  . Rasgrp1Anaef greatly increased this Helios+ CD44hi Foxp3− CD4+ population , which was also distinguished by high PD-1 expression in Rasgrp1Anaef  . Rasgrp1Anaef mice had normal frequencies of CD95  + GL-7+ germinal center B cells in the spleen  , consistent with the conclusion that the accumulating Helios+ PD-1+ CXCR5int Foxp3− CD44hi CD4+ cells were a distinct type of activated CD4+ cell but not fully differentiated TFH cells . To test if the dysregulated accumulation of Helios+ PD-1+ CXCR5int CD44hi CD4+ T cells in Anaef mice required B cells , Rasgrp1Anaef animals were intercrossed with mice bearing a null mutation in the BCR subunit , CD79a  . In Rasgrp1Anaef Cd79anull animals lacking B cells , accumulation of PD-1+ Helios+ CD4+ T cells was profoundly suppressed  . Indeed , the Rasgrp1Anaef–driven distortion in relative frequencies of naïve , effector/memory and regulatory subsets of CD4 splenocytes was rectified by the absence of B cells in Rasgrp1Anaef Cd79anull mice  . By contrast , the elevated CD44 expression on naïve CD4+ cells was still present  indicating this is a constitutive effect of the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation . Role of B and T cells in Rasgrp1Anaef-induced Helios+ PD-1+ CD4+ T cell and autoantibody formation . Cd79a−/− mice lacking B cells were intercrossed with B6 . Rasgrp1Anaef mice to produce mice with the genotypes shown above the plots . CD4+ splenocytes and the gates used to define FOXP3+ regulatory , CD44hi FOXP3− effector/memory , and CD44lo FOXP3− naïve subsets . Experimental design to delineate role of Rasgrp1Anaef in T and B cells . Irradiated mice received either 100% Rasgrp1WT marrow , 100% Rasgrp1Anaef marrow , or a 1:4 mixture of CD45 . 1+ wild-type marrow mixed with CD45 . 2+ marrow from either Cd79anull/nullRasgrp1WT or Cd79anull/null Rasgrp1Anaef siblings . 014 The requirement for B cells could indicate they are needed as specialized antigen presenting cells , as is the case for TFH cells  , or that the Anaef mutation also acts in B cells since B cells also express Rasgrp1  . To resolve these alternatives , we used bone marrow from Rasgrp1Anaef Cd79anull animals mixed with wildtype Rasgrp1+/+ marrow to generate chimeric mice where the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation was excluded from B cells but present in most of the T cells  , and compared these with control chimeras where all hematopoietic cells were Rasgrp1Anaef or Rasgrp1WT  . Despite having the Anaef mutation in the T but not B cells of group B mice , a high proportion developed antinuclear autoantibodies comparable to the control group D where both B and T cells carried the Anaef mutation  . Moreover , a high frequency and number of CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef CD4+ T cells acquired a Helios+ PD-1+ phenotype in Group B animals , unlike the co-resident CD45 . 1+ wildtype T cells  . The accumulation of these activated CD4 T cells thus reflects a cell-autonomous effect of the Anaef mutation within the CD4 T cells and does not depend upon the Anaef allele being present in B cells . Increased basal expression of the cell adhesion receptor , CD44 , was a unique trait exhibited by naïve , CD62L-positive Rasgrp1Anaef T cells  . CD44 expression normally increases during differentiation of DP thymocytes into SP T cells , attains higher levels on naïve CD4 T cells than on naïve CD8 cells , and increases further on activated/memory T cells , but little was known about what determines the level of CD44 expressed . In cancer cells CD44 has been described as an mTOR target  . In our ongoing peripheral blood screen of ENU mutagenized mouse pedigrees , we identified a strain , chino , with decreased CD44 expression on peripheral CD4+ CD62Lhi cells but relatively normal T cell numbers and subsets  . The numbers of DP , CD4SP and CD8SP thymocytes were normal in Mtorchino mice  . Whereas expression of CD69 , CD5 and TCRβ on DP and SP thymocytes was normal , CD44 expression was decreased on Mtorchino CD4SP and CD8SP thymocytes  . CD44 expression on peripheral blood CD4+ T cells decreased in an Mtorchino allele dose-dependent manner  , demonstrating that CD44 expression is a highly sensitive reporter of small changes in basal mTOR activity in CD4+ T cells . This conclusion is reinforced by supplementary data from two studies: mice with a neo-insertion in an Mtor intron that decreases Mtor mRNA approximately 70% show a similar selective lowering of CD44 on CD4+ T cells  and CD44 levels are also reduced on naïve , CD62L-positive T cells that are deficient for the mTOR activator Rheb or deficient for the mTOR-interacting protein Rictor  . Furthermore , we found that pharmacological inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin in mice treated with low doses that avoid toxicity  , resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in CD44 expression on wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes  . CD44 is a sensitive reporter of mTOR activity in immature and naïve CD4+ T cells . CD44lo T cell phenotype upon which Mtorchino mice were identified . Phenotype of Foxp3− CD4+ splenocytes from Mtor+/+  and Mtorchino/chino  mice , showing the CD62Lhi subset on which CD44 expression was quantified and normalized to the mean of WT animals  . Histogram overlay shows P-S6 staining on CD4+ cells representative of two separate experiments . Number of DP , CD4SP and CD8SP cells per thymus of WT  or chino  mice compiled from four experiments . Selective reduction in CD44 expression on chino thymocytes . Histograms show CD44 , CD5 , CD69 or TCRb expression on gated DP , CD4SP or CD8SP thymocytes from WT  vs chino  mice , representative of four separate experiments  . Histogram  and column graph  shows CD44 expression on CD4+ CD3+ B220− peripheral blood lymphocytes from littermate mice of the indicated Mtor genotypes , compiled from five separate experiments using a total of 20 Mtor+/+ , 49 Mtor+/chi and 7 Mtorchi/chi mice . CD44 RFI on unstimulated CD4SP thymocytes of WT or Rasgrp1Anaef mice after 7 days of treatment with the indicated rapamycin doses . 016 Our finding that tonic CD44 expression on naïve T cells sensitively reports small changes in mTOR activity prompted further analysis of this pathway in Rasgrp1Anaef T cells . CD44 was elevated on Rasgrp1Anaef DP and SP thymocytes , in diametric contrast to decreased CD44 on these cells in Rasgrp1−/− knockout mice   . A putative defect in regulatory T cells cannot explain the increased CD44 expression on naïve Rasgrp1Anaef CD4+ cells , because in mixed chimeras bearing many wild-type Foxp3+ CD4 cells , CD44 expression was still increased on Rasgrp1Anaef but not on co-resident wild-type CD62L+ FOXP3− CD4+ splenocytes  . The cell autonomous increase in CD44 expression was detectable on Rasgrp1Anaef SP and DP thymocytes  and even on CD4+ cells expressing a transgenic TCR  . Elevated CD44 expression on Rasgrp1Anaef cells was selective: there were no distinguishable differences between wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef cells in CD69 and TCRβ , which are markers of cumulative Ras signaling  , nor in CD5 expression , a sensitive reporter of TCR affinity and constitutive or tonic TCR signaling   , and rapamycin treatment in vivo selectively reduced the increased CD44 expression on Rasgrp1Anaef cells  but did not impact TCR or CD69 expression  . Selective and cell-autonomous increase in CD44 expression in Rasgrp1Anaef CD4+ T cells . Representative CD44 expression on unstimulated CD4SP thymocytes from wildtype , Rasgrp1Anaef and Rasgrp1−/− mice . Mean relative CD44 from 22 Rasgrp1Anaef , 13 wildtype , and 3 Rasgrp1−/− mice compiled from seven experiments . Unpaired Student’s t tests were used to compare Rasgrp1Anaef and Rasgrp1−/− with the wildtype group . CD44 MFI on CD62L+Foxp3−CD4+ splenocytes from mixed bone marrow chimeras described in Figure 7F . CD44 MFI on TCR3A9+  CD4+Foxp3− splenocytes from B10 . BR mixed bone marrow chimeras containing CD45 . 1+ wildtype TCR3A9 plus either CD45 . 2+ wildtype  or CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef  3A9 TCR-transgenic hematopoietic cells . Rasgrp1Anaef increases CD44 expression levels but does not affect CD69 or CD5 expression . CD4SP thymocytes are analyzed from irradiated mice reconstituted with non-transgenic CD45 . 1+ wildtype mixed with CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef bone marrow . CD44 and P-S6 expression in thymocytes . Selective effect of Rasgrp1Anaef on CD44 expression during thymic maturation . Analysis of thymocytes from mixed chimeras  bearing CD45 . 1+ WT  plus CD45 . 2+ Rasgrp1Anaef  hematopoietic cells . Histograms show CD44 , CD69 , CD5 , TCRβ expression on DP , CD4SP and CD8SP thymocytes . Column graph shows CD44 MFIs on CD45 . 1+ or CD45 . 018 Consistent with the CD44 data , P-S6 levels in unstimulated TCRβlow  DP thymocytes were modestly increased in Rasgrp1Anaef mice whereas they were decreased in cells from Rasgrp1−/− mice  . CD44 levels gradually rise as T cells mature from DP to SP and peripheral naïve T cells , suggesting that CD44 expression may reflect basal or tonic signaling . A recent study reported that naive CD4+ T cells display a range of CD5 expression in which the CD5high cells receive most tonic signal input and are most immune reactive  . We first sorted CD44low naïve CD4+ T cells into the most bright and most dim expression for CD5 and determined that CD5high naïve CD4+ T cells have significantly more P-S6 than their CD5low counterparts  . Next , dividing CD5low and CD5high naïve CD4+ T cells in equal 50–50% splits revealed that basal P-S6 was increased in Rasgrp1Anaef , particularly in the CD5low subset compared to wildtype cells  . To examine if self-peptide/MHCII recognition plays a role in the increased CD44 expression on Rasgrp1Anaef naïve CD4+ T cells , we adoptively transferred a mixture of wild-type and Rasgrp1Anaef splenocytes into wild-type or MHCII  –deficient recipient mice  . Maintenance of CD5 expression on T cells requires contact with self pMHC  and , as expected , CD5 expression on wildtype CD4+ CD62L+ Foxp3− T cells decreased in MHCII-deficient hosts  , consistent with the hypothesis that CD5 is a sensitive reporter of TCR signal strength . By contrast , CD44 levels were similar irrespective of MHCII expression in the adoptive hosts , and CD44 levels remained higher on Rasgrp1Anaef than co-transferred wild-type cells in both contexts  . These data reveal constitutively increased expression of two reporters of mTOR activity in Rasgrp1Anaef naïve CD4+ T cells: the well-established reporter P-S6 and the reporter clarified here , CD44 . The fact that the Rasgrp1Anaef–driven increase in CD44 is retained in the absence of MHCII suggests that this tonic signal is at least partially independent of triggering of TCRs by self-pMHC . Increased tonic mTOR-S6 signals in Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes and T cells . Tonic P-S6 levels in pre-selection DP thymocytes from wildtype , Rasgrp1Anaef and Rasgrp1−/− mice . Representative histograms are shown for five independent experiments with n = 9 for WT , n = 7 for Rasgrp1Anaef and n = 7 Rasgrp1−/− mice . Western blot measurements of basal P-S6 and P-ERK in unstimulated naive CD4+CD44lo T cells sorted into CD5low and CD5high subsets from wildtype and Rasgrp1Anaef mice . CD45 . 1 wild-type and Rasgrp1Anaef splenocytes were mixed , labeled with CellTrace Violet and adoptively transferred into CD45 . 48 hr later , donor-derived CD4+CD62L+FOXP3− cells in recipient spleens were resolved by flow cytometry and their CD44  and CD5  MFIs were plotted . Testing the role of MHCII recognition in constitutive CD44 overexpression by Rasgrp1Anaef naive CD4 T cells . Schematic of experiment design as described in the text  and flow cytometric resolution of co-transferred  donor WT  and Rasgrp1Anaef  naive CD4 T cells on which CD5 and CD44 expression were compared  . 020 To test the role of elevated mTOR signaling in the Rasgrp1Anaef–induced overexpression of CD44 in naïve T cells and in the accumulation of activated CD44hi PD-1+ CD4+ cells and autoantibodies , Rasgrp1Anaef mice were intercrossed with the subtle loss-of-function Mtorchino strain . Using a CD62L+ Foxp3− gate to resolve naïve CD4+ splenocytes , we found that the Mtorchino mutation abolished the Rasgrp1Anaef–driven increase in CD44 expression in these naïve T cells  . The Mtorchino mutation alone resulted in a decrease in numbers of splenocytes , including CD4+ cells , as was observed in mice with reduced Mtor mRNA  , but the relative proportions of the CD4+ subsets examined were normal  . Whereas Rasgrp1Anaef mice with normal mTOR accumulated a high frequency of CD44hi Foxp3− CD4+ splenocytes , including the prominent PD-1+ Helios+ subset , this was corrected down to normal numbers in Rasgrp1Anaef Mtorchino double mutants  . Moreover , in bone marrow chimeras bearing Rasgrp1Anaef Mtorchino double-mutant hematopoietic cells , the frequency of animals with antinuclear autoantibodies was corrected to the low frequency observed in control chimeras with wildtype Rasgrp1 and Mtor  . Collectively , these results establish that accumulation of CD44hi Helios+ PD-1+ CD4+ cells and autoantibodies induced by Rasgrp1Anaef is sensitive to small differences in mTOR signaling . Mtor hypomorphic mutation corrects Rasgrp1Anaef–induced increase in naive T-cell CD44 expression and accumulation of CD44+Helios+PD-1+CD4+ cells and autoantibodies . Rasgrp1Anaef mice were intercrossed with B6 . Representative CD44 histograms of CD62L+FOXP3−CD4+ splenocytes from these chino , Anaef , and Anaef . Below , CD44 MFI of mice was normalized against average CD44 MFI of wild-type mice across two independent experiments and graphed , with columns showing mean ± SEM . Significance indicated using a 1-way ANOVA and Tukey’s post-test at n = 13 WT , 5 chino , 15 Anaef , and 4 Anaef . Representative CD44 vs FOXP3 plots for these four genotypes from  , which display CD4+ splenocytes gated into naïve  , activated/memory  , and T-reg  populations . Significance indicated using a 1-way ANOVA and Tukey’s post-test at n = 13 WT , 5 chino , 15 Anaef , and 4 Anaef . SJL CD451/1 mice , which were analyzed 28 weeks after irradiation . Plots show HELIOS vs PD-1 expression on FOXP3− CD4+ splenocytes , representative of both nonchimeric and chimeric mice . Absolute number of HELIOS+ PD-1+ FOXP3− CD4+ splenocytes per mouse is graphed below , with columns showing mean ± SEM . Significance indicated using a 1-way ANOVA and Tukey’s post-test at n = 11 WT , 10 chino , 10 Anaef , 11 Anaef . 021 The findings here reveal a new role for Rasgrp1 in the cell-intrinsic regulation of peripheral CD4+ T cells . By analyzing a missense mutation in the Rasgrp1 EF-hand , the results dissociate this new function of Rasgrp1 from its well-known role in thymic positive selection . While the Anaef EF-hand mutation did decrease Rasgrp1 activation of Ras and ERK when thymocytes were stimulated acutely by antibodies to CD3 or with PMA in vitro , the activity of this pathway during physiological positive selection in vivo remained sufficient for normal numbers of single positive thymocytes and peripheral T cells to form even under competitive reconstitution conditions . By contrast , the normal thymic development coupled with experiments in mixed bone marrow chimeras where wild-type and mutant T cells co-exist rules out this possibility for the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation , and shows that peripheral CD4 cells are intrinsically dysregulated . By a combination of biochemical and genetic studies , we identify overactive mTOR signaling within naïve CD4 T cells as a key component for Rasgrp1Anaef to drive two abnormalities:  a constitutive increase in CD44 expression in naïve CD4 T cells and  a gradual accumulation of peripheral Helios+ CD44hi CD4 cells and autoantibodies . Rasgrp1Anaef’s effect on Ras/ERK signaling in vivo was much milder than expected from its effects in in vitro assays . In response to relatively strong in vitro stimuli , the Rasgrp1Anaef mutation results in impaired membrane recruitment and T184 phosphorylation of Rasgrp1 as well as reduced activation of Ras-ERK , establishing that Rasgrp1Anaef is a hypomorphic  allele under these conditions . By contrast , in vivo , Rasgrp1Anaef did not alter CD69 and TCRβ induction or positive selection of thymocytes , unlike the C-terminally deleted  and knockout  alleles which caused moderate and severe decreases in these processes , respectively . CD44 expression on thymocytes is decreased in the complete absence of Rasgrp1   and increased by oncogenic Ras  establishing that CD44 expression in thymocytes is positively regulated by Ras . Rasgrp1Anaef thymocytes and naïve CD4 T cells have increased CD44 and P-S6 expression , suggesting that the Anaef mutation increases either Rasgrp1/Ras/ERK signaling or PI-3-kinase/mTOR/S6 signaling , or both . Thus , Rasgrp1’s EF hands play both stimulatory- and inhibitory-roles that may result in the EF2 substitution in Rasgrp1Anaef decreasing maintenance of the autoinhibited state in the absence of strong TCR stimuli and decreasing RasGRP1 activation during strong TCR stimulation . While the mechanism is currently unclear , the current evidence suggests that Rasgrp1Anaef’s gain-of-function in naïve T cells in the absence of strong TCR stimulation–and apparently in the absence of MHCII ligands for the TCR  —activates S6-CD44 more than it activates ERK-CD69 . In T cells , the mTOR pathway is activated by strong TCR stimulation  and is required for efficient differentiation of naïve CD4 cells into effector cells  . Increased mTOR stimulation by Rasgrp1Anaef may allow self-antigens to activate some naïve CD4 cells , resulting in the gradual accumulation of activated CD62Llow CD44hi PD-1+ HELIOS+ T cells and antinuclear autoantibodies . Because accumulation of PD-1+ HELIOS+ T cells in Rasgrp1Anaef mice requires B cells  , these T cells might require B cells as specialized APCs or they might require Fc receptor-dependent enhancement of antigen presentation by antibodies  . RASGRP1 splice variants have been documented for patients with SLE  and abnormal microRNA-driven downregulation of Rasgrp1 expression may play a role in aberrant DNA methylation in Lupus CD4+ T cells  . In addition , RASGRP1-linked SNVs have been associated with autoimmune diabetes and thyroid disease  . Of the 13 uncharacterized RASGRP1 missense SNVs currently known , rs62621817 is of particular interest here since it causes a missense variation in RasGRP1’s first EF hand , changing a conserved , negatively charged aspartic acid into a valine residue . We propose that Rasgrp1Anaef mice may provide a useful model system for further studies to help elucidate how RASGRP1 variants contribute to autoimmune disease , and to help target future efforts to modulate this pathway pharmacologically . CD45 . 1 , B10Br TCR3A9 , Cd79anull  and MHCII-deficient  mice were obtained from ANU Bioscience Services . The Rasgrp1Anaef and Mtorchino strains were established through ethylnitrosourea  -mediated mutagenesis of B6 mice at the Australian National University as previously described  . Affected Rasgrp1Anaef mice were crossed onto the CBA/J background to generate heterozygous F1 mice . Once a defined interval was established , the Rasgrp1 encoding gene was sequenced from genomic DNA from both affected Anaef and WT mice . Roose lab Anaef mice were genotyped using MS-PCR . Suspensions of splenocytes  or thymocytes were incubated with cocktails of anti-mouse antibodies specific for: CD44 , CD4 , CD45 . 1 , CD45 . 2 , CD5 , CD62L , CD69 , TCRβ , PD-1 , TCR Vβ5 , TCR Vβ8 , TCR Vβ11 , B220 , CD95 , GL-7 , B220  or CD8  conjugated to AlexaFluor700 , APC-780 or APCCy7 , PE-Cy7 , APC , PerCPCy5 . Rabbit anti-human Rasgrp1  was produced by Epitomics , Inc . Mouse anti-Rasgrp1 p-T184  was produced by AnaSpec  . 
Mutations in members of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling family are common events in cancer , but the mechanisms whereby disruption of SWI/SNF components alters tumorigenesis remain poorly understood . To model the effect of loss of function mutations in the SWI/SNF subunit Arid1a in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma  initiation , we directed shRNA triggered , inducible and reversible suppression of Arid1a to the mouse pancreas in the setting of oncogenic KrasG12D . Arid1a cooperates with Kras in the adult pancreas as postnatal silencing of Arid1a following sustained KrasG12D expression induces rapid and irreversible reprogramming of acinar cells into mucinous PDAC precursor lesions . In contrast , Arid1a silencing during embryogenesis , concurrent with KrasG12D activation , leads to retention of acinar cell fate . Together , our results demonstrate Arid1a as a critical modulator of Kras-dependent changes in acinar cell identity , and underscore an unanticipated influence of timing and genetic context on the effects of SWI/SNF complex alterations in epithelial tumorigenesis . For instance , mice lacking Arid1a , the DNA-binding SWI/SNF subunit , in the colon develop adenocarcinomas  . We set out to develop an in vivo model to address the role of the SWI/SNF component ARID1A in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma  , a setting in which mutations in ARID1A or other SWI/SNF components occur in up to 25% of cancer patients  . Tissue specific expression of mutant Kras in the developing and adult mouse pancreas recapitulates both the range of preneoplastic lesions and their progression to malignant PDAC  . Lineage tracing studies indicate mutant Kras can drive PanIN development from acinar cells that undergo a process of persistent trans-differentiation termed acinar to ductal metaplasia   . Deletion of key transcriptional regulators of acinar cell identity and regeneration such as Ptf1a , Nr5a2 and Pdx1 , when combined with oncogenic Kras , accelerates ADM and PanIN development  . Thus , maintenance of acinar cell identity and regenerative homeostasis provides an important barrier to tumorigenesis in PDAC . Addressing these issues , we implement a powerful mouse-modeling platform that enables inducible and reversible disruption of gene function to show that Arid1a depletion can modulate the early stages of pancreatic neoplasia in a context-specific manner that depends on the timing of Arid1a inactivation and the presence of oncogenic Kras . Remarkably , these cell state transitions facilitated by Arid1a perturbation involve reprogramming events that , in contrast to tissue regenerative responses , are irreversible . We sought to create a model with the capability for inducible and reversible Arid1a knockdown at different stages of PDAC progression . 5 and remains active in acinar but not islet and ductal cells of the pancreas  . KC-RIK ES cells were targeted with two shRNAs against Arid1a and an shRNA against Renilla luciferase as a control . We placed KC-RIK-shArid1a mice on a doxycycline  diet at five weeks of age . This enabled us to suppress Arid1a in the presence of existing oncogenic Kras  but after completion of pancreas development  , mimicking somatic alteration of the SWI/SNF complex and the order of mutational events known to occur in the human disease  . KC-RIK-shRen mice were used as controls . Consistent with coupling of the Arid1a shRNA expression to a GFP reporter , we observed efficient knockdown of Arid1a in the GFP-expressing epithelial cells of the pancreas and not in the GFP- stromal cells and unrecombined duct regions  . Acute morbidity was closely associated with KC-RIK-shArid1a mice exhibiting a high degree of chimerism   , indicating that at some level normal unrecombined cells can compensate for the gross functional defects produced by Arid1a depletion in this context . Consistent with decreased exocrine function , histological analyses revealed that Arid1a knockdown induces a dramatic remodeling of the exocrine pancreas compared to shRen mice . This increase in PanINs was accompanied by a dramatic reduction in cells positive for the differentiated acinar cell marker Cpa1  , indicating a role for Arid1a in maintaining acinar cell identity in the setting of mutant Kras . Indeed , acinar cell depletion was likely a consequence of accelerated acinar ductal reprogramming rather than acinar cell death , since pancreata derived from shArid1a mice were not atrophied  , and showed similar levels of cleaved caspase three and Ki67 staining as controls  . The phenotypes described above were on target , as the same changes in histology and cell fate markers were observed in mice carrying two distinct Arid1a shRNAs  . Of note , the Alcian blue-positive PanINs induced upon Arid1a silencing maintained low levels of Arid1a even after a year on dox chow  . Thus , while the ability of Arid1a to stabilize acinar cell identity may act as a barrier to pancreatic cancer initiation , other factors are likely necessary to promote the PanIN-to-PDAC transition . Collectively , our data suggest that acute loss of Arid1a in the setting of a pre-existing Kras mutation rapidly perturbs the identity and function of pancreatic acinar cells , enhancing their sensitivity to metaplastic and PanIN-inducing signals stemming from oncogenic Kras . Kras driven ADM and PanIN development is constrained by programs required to maintain acinar differentiation  and regeneration  . Thus , we next sought to determine whether the ability of Arid1a suppression to accelerate Kras driven preneoplastic changes in the pancreas reflects a general requirement for Arid1a function to sustain acinar homeostasis even in the absence of oncogenic signaling . To this end , we eliminated the LSL-KrasG12D allele from ES cell-derived KC-RIK-shArid1a and KC-RIK-shRen mice though one round of breeding . These C-RIK-shRNA mice were then placed on dox at five weeks of age , after the completion of pancreas development , as in the KC-RIK experiments . In contrast to settings involving oncogenic Kras , these mice did not become moribund following dox administration , and pancreata from both shArid1a and shRen mice appeared normal  . Histological assessment showed only subtle alterations in acinar cell morphology , with acinar rosette organization and polarity remaining intact  despite widespread and efficient GFP expression and Arid1a knockdown throughout the pancreas  . Importantly , shArid1a mice harboring wild-type Kras retained expression of the acinar marker Cpa1  , which was lost in the KrasG12D setting . Similarly , no differences in markers of stressed acinar cells  or proliferation  were noted  . As acinar cells turn over slowly , it is possible that sufficient Arid1a protein depletion might not be achieved by short-term dox treatment . We thus maintained shRen and shArid1a mice on dox diet for 3 months . Although subtle differences in cell morphology and the pattern of E-cadherin staining were noted in cells with reduced Arid1a levels , no pancreas degeneration or exocrine insufficiency was observed despite sustained Arid1a knockdown . Therefore , Arid1a is dispensable for maintenance of normal acinar cell identiy  . To test if the ability of Arid1a suppression to accelerate Kras driven preneoplastic transformation is due to a defect in acinar regeneration , we challenged C-RIK-shArid1a or C-RIK-shRen mice with pancreatitis induced by the cholecystokinin analog caerulein  . Arid1a suppression had no impact on this damage and regeneration program . At day two post-caerulein treatment , both C-RIK-shRen mice and C-RIK-shArid1a animals exhibited a similar increase in inflammation , ADM , and expression of acinar stress response genes  and a concomitant decrease in expression of markers of acinar differentiation   . Regenerated acinar cells in C-RIK-shArid1a animals retained Arid1a knockdown  , ruling out the possibility that Arid1a suppressed cells were replaced by un-recombined tissue . Thus , Arid1a function plays a genotype-specific role in dictating acinar cell identity . Our results showing that Arid1a suppression accelerates Kras driven erosion of acinar identity are surprising in light of previous work using traditional conditional mouse models in which SWI/SNF subunits , when deleted concurrently with Kras activation , lead to decreased acinar sensitivity to Kras driven ADM and PanIN development  . To this end , we compared the effects of suppressing Arid1a in acinar cells harboring a pre-existing Kras mutation  vs in cells in which alterations of Arid1a and Kras occur simultaneously . Thus the LSL-KrasG12D , CAGS-LSL-RIK , and TRE-shRNA alleles are activated upon Cre expression , leading to concomitant activation of oncogenic Kras and rtTA , allowing simultaneous silencing of Arid1a in the embryos of pregnant mice treated with dox  . To compare the effects of Arid1a silencing after the onset of oncogenic Kras signaling but prior to the completion of pancreas morphogenesis , an independent cohort of mice was placed on dox at postnatal day five  . In both E7 and P5 cohorts , mKate2 positive pancreas tissue was readily observed in highly chimeric on dox mice at 7 weeks of age , indicating that Arid1a silencing during pancreas morphogenesis does not in and of itself impair pancreatic cell fitness  . KC-RIK-shArid1a mice from the P5 cohort showed an accelerated reduction of eosinophilic acinar cells and a concomitant increase in mucinous lesions that were morphologically consistent with low grade-PanINs , resembling the adult phenotype  . In contrast , KC-RIK-shArid1a mice from the E7 cohort , while still displaying ADM/PanIN lesions , exhibited a striking retention of Cpa1+ acinar tissue  , a feature that was not observed in either P5 or adult cohorts . Moreover , despite efficient and comparable Arid1a knockdown in the different cohorts  , the retained acinar cells observed in the E7 cohort failed to upregulate the ductal markers CK19 and Sox9 in the presence of mutant Kras  . Thus , Arid1a suppression accelerates the transition from an acinar to a mucinous cell fate in the presence of a pre-existing oncogenic Kras mutation  whereas , when occurring concomitant with KrasG12D activation , it paradoxically promotes retention of the acinar cell phenotype  . Taken together , these data reveal a temporal , context-dependent role for Arid1a in regulating acinar identity in response to oncogenic Kras . To test the stability of the acinar-to-mucinous reprogramming triggered by Arid1a depletion , we placed cohorts of KC-RIK-shRen and KC-RIK-shArid1a mice on dox at 5 weeks of age for two weeks to establish the acute Arid1a phenotype . Mice were then withdrawn from doxycycline to restore Arid1a expression  . Remarkably , Arid1a restoration did not reverse the acinar reprogramming phenotype . Staining of tissues from KC-RIK-shRen and -shArid1a animals for Arid1a showed partial restoration of Arid1a by 5 days after withdrawal and full restoration at 2 and 4 weeks  . Despite this , histological assessment of KC-RIK-shRen and -shArid1a mice after dox withdrawal showed retention of widespread mucinous lesions as in the on dox condition , without a reversal of the PanIN phenotype towards an acinar or even ADM cell fate  . Alcian blue staining further confirmed the retention of mucinous lesions in Arid1a-restored mice  . Thus , Arid1a loss enables a non-reversible reprogramming of cell fate that is dependent on cellular and genetic context . We next sought to understand the mechanism  whereby Arid1a regulates pancreas cell identity . Perturbation of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex is expected to impact the expression of SWI/SNF target genes  . In order to capture the immediate transcriptional consequences of Arid1a silencing , we performed gene expression analysis via RNAseq on mKate2+GFP+ epithelial cells sorted from 3 KC-RIK-shRen , or shArid1a and mice after 5 days of dox treatment . This timepoint occurs after maximal Arid1a suppression but before any observed histological changes , thus reducing the confounding effect of secondary changes in gene expression resulting from tissue inflammation  . These observations raise the possibility that Arid1a depletion in this context ‘primes’ acinar cells for tumorigenesis by facilitating shifts in cell identity , but additional inactivation of tumor suppressor pathways may be required for PanINs to acquire increased proliferative capacity associated with malignant transition to PDAC  . Importantly , significant downregulation of gene expression programs sustained by master acinar TFs  required to maintain acinar differentiation   were noted . Thus , the destablization of acinar cell identity that occurs upon Arid1a suppression in the setting of oncogenic Kras most likely results from impaired recruitment or function of these acinar TFs at their appropriate targets . Building on recent observations  , we hypothesized that the transcriptional changes induced by Arid1a loss may be triggered by changes in chromatin accessibility . We found that knockdown of Arid1a resulted in striking changes in chromatin accessibility , with shArid1a chromatin profiles that clearly separated from shRen by PCA  . This indicates that Arid1a-containing SWI/SNF complexes are required to maintain substantial regions of open chromatin in the pre-neoplastic pancreas . In addition , and consistent with impact of Arid1a suppression on acinar cell fate , we identified enrichment of binding motifs for several key acinar-specific TFs  in the genomic regions losing chromatin accessibility upon Arid1a knockdown  . These same sites also showed enrichment in binding motifs for Pdx1 , a TF that constrains acinar identity during mutant Kras-driven PanIN development   . Critically , loss of these TFs destabilizes acinar differentiation and accelerates the development of Kras driven metaplasia and PanINs  . Increased chromatin closing observed upon Arid1a knockdown at these TF target sites was associated with reduced gene expression at adjacent genes . As shown in Figure 7F , Nr5a2 , Ptf1a and Pdx1 target genes losing chromatin accessibility upon Arid1a suppression were significantly downregulated in shArid1a vs . shRen mice . More globally , genes downregulated upon Arid1a suppression showed a significantly increased density of Nr5a2 , Ptf1a and Pdx1 binding sites losing chromatin accessibility as compared to genes whose expression is upregulated or unchanged  . These data support a model whereby Arid1a depletion results in loss of chromatin accessibility at acinar-specific enhancers , limiting the transcriptional output of acinar master TFs and , consequently , the expression of transcriptional programs that direct acinar cell fate . In this study , we used a rapid and robust mouse-modeling platform to study the consequences of inducible and reversible suppression of the Arid1a SWI/SNF subunit in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer . Suppression of Arid1a in adult acinar cells harboring oncogenic Kras mutations accelerates acinar to ductal reprogramming and specification of mucinous , pancreatic cancer precursor lesions that cannot be reversed by restoring endogenous Arid1a expression . Thus , our data suggest that Arid1a can provide a potent barrier to Kras driven acinar to ductal metaplasia and , consequently , early stage pancreatic neoplasia . Once disrupted by Arid1a mutation , these altered cells are reprogrammed in such a manner that Arid1a is no longer needed to sustain the aberrant cell fate . The phenotype produced by Arid1a depletion in the presence of an oncogenic Kras mutation is characterized by reduced chromatin accessibility accompanied by loss of acinar morphology , reduced expression of acinar genes , and upregulation of a signature characteristic of mucinous lesions . These features imply that genomic areas rendered accessible by Arid1a harbor elements involved in preventing acinar to duct like trans-differentiation in the context of mutant Kras , a critical rate-limiting step in Kras driven pancreatic neoplasia . Indeed , our transcriptional and chromatin profiling data imply that Arid1a disruption , in the presence of oncogenic Kras , reduces the chromatin accessibility of key TFs to the enhancers of genes needed to sustain acinar cell fate . At least one such factor , Nr5a2 , can physically interact with the SWI/SNF complex via the Baf60 subunit  , suggesting a possible mechanism for aberrant Nr5a2 target deregulation upon Arid1a loss . Further studies will be necessary to determine the interplay between Nr5a2 and other acinar TFs that may underly the Arid1a-depletion phenotype . The accelerated PanIN formation produced by Arid1a suppression required the presence of a Kras mutation , the initiating event in pancreatic carcinogenesis . Thus , Arid1a suppression in the normal pancreas did not appreciably perturb acinar differentiation , even during wound healing responses that force a reversible acinar to ductal metaplasia . Apparently , Arid1a suppression sensitizes pancreatic epithelial cells to mucinous reprogramming by oncogenic Kras or , alternatively , increases the efficiency of Kras-induced acinar-to-ADM-to-PanIN transitions . Regardless , this Kras-dependence differs from the phenotype produced by deletion of acinar TFs such as Ptf1a or Nr5a2 , whose loss generally perturbs acinar maintenance and/or regeneration  . Furthermore elimination of Brg1 in adult acinar cells prevents the development of Kras driven acinar to duct-like transdifferentiation and PanIN development  . While a recent study employing conditional deletion of Arid1a in the pancreas also observed IPMN formation , PanIN formation was not suppressed , pointing towards distinct molecular consequences of targeting different SWI/SNF components  . The striking predominance of PanINs over IPMNs in our model may be due to a dosage effect , where IPMN formation requires complete loss of Arid1a in ductal progenitors or ductal cells , while acinar cells expressing mutant Kras are more highly dependent on Arid1a to maintain their identity , and thus are rapidly reprogrammed to mucinous PanINs upon partial Arid1a suppression . This has important implications for human cancers , which exhibit a broad spectrum of Arid1a levels . Unlike our Arid1a suppression strategy , mouse models using conditional alleles necessarily disrupt SWI/SNF concomitantly with Kras activation . Indeed , when we recapitulate such timing during embryonic development , we see a lower level of PanIN formation with shArid1a pancreata showing the retention of acinar cells , that contrasts with the effects of sequential suppression of Arid1a in acinar cells harboring pre-existing expression of mutant Kras . Regardless of the precise mechanism , the fact that Arid1a suppression can produce distinct phenotypes depending on the timing of gene suppression has ramifications for studying the SWI/SNF complex in other cancer types and , more generally , for cancer modeling in the mouse . Here , shRNA mediated knockdown of Arid1a produced a shift in acinar to mucinous cell fate and a PanIN histopathology that was not reversed by subsequent Arid1a re-expression . Since ARID1A controls the expression of thousands of gene targets via interaction with available TFs  , it is possible that factors absent from mucinous lesions might be needed to reestablish an acinar transcriptional program when Arid1a is restored . Taken together , our data identify a role for Arid1a in the early stages of PDAC . This supports a model where initiating oncogenic KRAS mutations trigger ADM and PanIN conversion at low efficiency; mutation of ARID1A may boost the frequency of this process by increasing cellular plasticity . Other tumor suppressor mutations  that co-occur with KRAS and ARID1A can then contribute to further PanIN progression . While studies to explore the role of ARID1A in later stage PDAC progression are in progress , the irreversibility of the Kras-induced PanIN phenotype indicates that impaired SWI/SNF function may not be required for tumor maintenance . shRen: CAGGAATTATAATGCTTATCTA shArid1a . 6421: AGCCTGGAGAAGTTGTATAGTA shArid1a . 713: GTATAGATAAGCATTATAATTCCTA shArid1a . 6421: TATACTATACAACTTCTCCAGGCG shArid1a . For Arid1a , pERK and Mesothelin immunohistochemistry , Vector ImmPress HRP kits were used for secondary detection . The following antibodies were used: GFP  , Arid1a  , Cpa1  , Amylase  and Actin-HRP  . 
Many species use social networks to buffer the effects of stress . We examined neuroendocrine , PVN CRH neurons and report that social isolation alters the intrinsic properties of these cells in sexually dimorphic fashion . Specifically , isolating preadolescent female mice from littermates for <24 hr increased first spike latency  and decreased excitability of CRH neurons . These changes were not evident in age-matched males . By contrast , subjecting either males  or group housed females to acute physical stress  , increased FSL . The increase in FSL following either social isolation or acute physical stress was blocked by the glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor , metyrapone and mimicked by exogenous corticosterone . The increase in FSL results in a decrease in the excitability of CRH neurons . Our observations demonstrate that social isolation , but not acute physical stress has sex-specific effects on PVN CRH neurons . This sexual dimorphism may result in different response sensitivity to the same stressor and/or differences in which stimuli males and females perceive as stressful . Human studies demonstrating that young girls exhibit greater corticosteroid  stress reactivity to social stress tests than boys  suggest , for example , that young females are more responsive to changes in social situations . Consistent with this idea , are demonstrations that , in comparison to males , females take greater advantage of social support and group dynamics to manage stress  . Here we hypothesized that disrupting the social network would elicit neurobiological changes preferentially in female mice . To test this idea , mice were housed in same-sex groups  from weaning  until the day of the experiment  . We then prepared hypothalamic brain slices and examined synaptic and intrinsic properties of identified CRH neurons in the PVN in acute brain slices   . Activation of these cells is obligatory for launching the neuroendocrine response to stress  . Social isolation alters intrinsic properties of CRH neurons in female , not male mice . Panels on right show DIC image with electrode  , tdTomato cells  and recorded neuron   Summary bar graphs indicate no difference in FSL for single and group-housed males  . FSL in single females is significantly longer than group-housed females  . FSL in group-housed females and males are not different  . Traces show responses to a single +80 pA depolarizing step  in group  and single-housed  males . FSL calculated from the start of the depolarizing pulse  to the first spike is plotted for all cells in  . Traces show responses to the same depolarizing step protocol as in  but in group  and single-housed  females . No sex differences in basal properties of CRH neurons . Left: Input resistance of individual cells from isolated males and females  . Right: Spike thresholds of individual cells from isolated males and females  . No sex differences in excitatory post-synaptic currents . Representative traces of spontaneous synaptic activity from individual cells from single-housed males and females with bath application of picrotoxin  . Peak scaled sample trace of a paired-pulse recording from a male  and a female  . Right: Summary data of PPRs recorded from males and females . No sex differences in inhibitory post-synaptic currents . Representative traces of spontaneous synaptic activity from individual cells from males and females with bath application of DNQX  . Peak scaled sample trace of a paired-pulse recording from a male  and a female  . Right: Summary data of PPRs recorded from males and females . There was no significant difference in the PPR of IPSCs ( males: 0 . 02 , n = 29; females: 0 . We have recently described a transgenic reporter mouse in which CRH neurons can be identified and targeted directly for electrophysiological recording  . In male mice , the electrical fingerprint of CRH cells was consistent with previous reports on parvocellular neurosecretory cells  . We first examined FSL of CRH neurons from group-housed vs isolated mice . FSL can play a key role in integrating synaptic events and influence probability of firing  and changes in the underlying currents can tune neuronal frequency  . Social isolation had no effect on FSL in males  . By contrast , FSL in isolated females was significantly longer than FSL in group-housed females  . We then conducted experiments in which female mice were housed in pairs prior to electrophysiology experiments . This manipulation revealed an intermediate phenotype , with pair-housed females exhibiting FSLs that were longer than those observed in group housed female mice , but shorter than those observed in single-housed female mice  . There was no difference in the input resistance of isolated males vs isolated females  or spike threshold  . We also examined properties of glutamate and GABA synapses on CRH neurons in hypothalamic slices from single-housed females and males . These observations indicate that social isolation alters the intrinsic properties of CRH neurons in female , but not age-matched male mice . Next , we hypothesized that female mice , but not male mice , may interpret social isolation as a stress . If true , we reasoned that subjecting single-housed male mice to an acute swim stress should also increase FSL . In females , however , the prior isolation should occlude the effects of an acute stress . To test this idea , single -housed male and female mice were subjected to swim stress for 20 min and intrinsic properties of CRH neurons were assessed  . Following swim stress , FSL in male mice  was 64 . 6 ms , n = 37 , Figure 2b , c; this is significantly longer than FSL in the single males reported above  . FSL in single female mice subjected to swim stress was 65 . 9 ms , n = 32 , Figure 2b , c; this is not different from FSL in female mice subjected to social isolation  . Finally , FSL in single males subjected to swim was not different from FSL in single females subjected to swim  . This suggests that either increases in FSL following social isolation occlude further effects of stress on CRH neurons or that females do not respond to swim stress . To test the effects of swim stress independent of any potential effects of social isolation , we conducted experiments in which group-housed females and males were subjected to swim stress . Following swim , FSL in group-housed males  was significantly longer than FSL in naïve , group -housed males  . FSL of group-housed males subjected to swim was not different than FSL in females subjected to swim  . Similarly , CRH neurons in group-housed females subjected to swim had a significantly longer FSL than CRH neurons in naive , group-housed females  . These observations demonstrate that both females and males show equivalent sensitivity to an acute physical stress  . Additionally , a prior social isolation occludes the effects of subsequent physical stress on FSL in females , but has no effect on FSL in males . Females and males show equivalent sensitivity to an acute physical stress . Neuronal responses to +80 pA depolarizing pulse in single-housed males and females . Summary data show that following swim stress , FSL in single males and single females is not different  . FSL in single males subjected to swim is significantly longer than FSL in naive single males  . FSL in single females subjected to swim is not different than single females  . Summary data show that FSL in group-housed males and females is not different  . Group-housed males subjected to swim have longer FSL than group-housed , naive males  and group-housed females subjected to swim have longer FSL than group-housed , naive females  . 007 Since stress increases CORT , we examined the relationship between circulating CORT and FSL . In order to assess CORT during a defined temporal window , we subjected single male mice to swim stress and obtained samples thirty minutes after the protocol . We noted a positive correlation between plasma CORT and FSL  . CORT , however , is one of many signaling molecules that is altered in response to stress . To determine whether CORT is necessary for increases in FSL following social isolation , we conducted experiments in which female mice were given access to drinking water containing the CORT-synthesis inhibitor , metyrapone prior to , and during , isolation  . Metyrapone treatment blocked the effects of social isolation on FSL in female mice  . Next , to determine whether CORT is necessary for increases in FSL following swim stress , we administered metyrapone prior to swim stress in single males  . This eliminated the stress-induced increase in FSL in males  . These observations demonstrate that CORT is necessary for stress-induced changes in FSL in both males and females . In order to determine whether CORT is sufficient for increasing FSL , we incubated slices from either single-housed males or group-housed females with 100 nM CORT for 1 hr prior to electrophysiological assessment . This incubation time is sufficient to mimic CORT-dependent changes in synaptic metaplasticity observed after acute stress  . CORT-incubation increased FSL in slices from single-housed males  and in slices from group-housed females  . Collectively , these observations demonstrate that CORT is both necessary  and sufficient  to increase FSL in male and female mice . CORT is necessary and sufficient for increasing FSL . CORT measurements in male mice subjected to stress are plotted against FSL . FSL following pre-treatment with the CORT synthesis inhibitor metyrapone in drinking water prior to and during isolation in females  . Left bar shows FSL in male mice pretreated with Met prior to swim stress . Right bar shows FSL in male mice pretreated with vehicle prior to swim stress . FSL is increased following incubation of slices from single males  or group-housed females  with CORT . There is no significant difference in FSL between the two CORT-treated groups . 008 Next we investigated the underlying conductance that controls FSL in single-housed males and females . A rapidly activating , rapidly inactivating potassium  conductance contributes to FSL in a number of different cell types throughout the nervous system  . To test whether similar K channels contribute to the FSL in CRH neurons , we conducted experiments in which we did not deliver a membrane hyperpolarization prior to a depolarizing current step . The absence of this hyperpolarizing pre-pulse decreased the FSL in CRH neurons from socially-isolated females  . Rapidly activating and inactivating K currents are sensitive to millimolar concentrations of 4-aminopyridine   , and consistent with this , we observed shorter FSL in the presence of 2 mM 4-AP  . We obtained voltage clamp recordings and characterized the currents responsible for regulating FSL  . Neurons from socially-isolated females showed no difference in activation or recovery from inactivation in comparison to isolated males  . There was no difference in current density in socially-isolated females when compared to socially-isolated males  , arguing against an increase in channel number or conductance . We next asked whether channel kinetics might explain the differences in FSL . There was no difference in the activation kinetics between males and females , but currents from female mice had a longer decay time constant in comparison to males  . These findings indicate that a slowing in the decay of a rapidly activating , rapidly inactivating voltage-gated K current is causative for the increase in FSL . Slower decay of 4-AP sensitive , voltage-gated K current in isolated females . FSL is decreased by bath application of 2 mM 4-AP . Voltage clamp traces from a male CRH neuron in response to different current step protocols as shown . The activation and inactivation curves are shown for single-housed females and males . Currents at half-maximal activation , fit with a double-exponential are shown from males and females . FSL is sensitive to membrane hyperpolarization prior to depolarization . The absence of a hyperpolarizing pre-pulse decreases FSL as summarized in b  . 010 Next , we asked whether these differences in the biophysical properties of the rapidly inactivating K current observed in socially-isolated females compared to males would be sufficient to alter the spike output of CRH neurons . CRH neurons from female isolated mice required a greater depolarization to generate a spike compared to CRH neurons from socially isolated males . Finally , we compared the excitability of CRH neurons from isolated females and males . The rightward shift in the F-I plot indicates that CRH neurons from isolated females had lower excitability in comparison to isolated males  . Longer FSL decreases spike probability and neuronal firing . Traces show firing properties of CRH neurons from individually housed male  and female  mice . Responses from male and female CRH neurons to varying current steps . 011 Our findings demonstrate that brief social isolation  affects the biophysical properties of PVN CRH neurons in a sexually dimorphic fashion . We report an increase in FSL and a decrease in neuronal excitability in socially-isolated female , but not in age-matched , male mice . By contrast , an acute physical stress  increased FSL in group-housed females and single-housed males . In addition , social isolation occluded the effects of swim stress on female mice . CORT is both necessary for the isolation  and swim stress  induced increases in FSL and sufficient to increase FSL in the absence of stress . Finally , we noted the effect of social isolation was graded in female mice with paired mice exhibiting FSLs that were intermediate to those observed from group-housed or single mice . We did , however , observe an increase in the decay time constant of rapidly inactivating K currents in socially-isolated female mice compared to male mice , providing a potential underlying mechanism for the prolonged FSL in response to depolarization . The longer FSL we observed is not a classically defined characteristic of CRH neurons and , in fact , the absence of this delay has been used previously to categorize putative CRH neurons  . We have previously shown , using immunohistochemistry , that overlap between the genetically identified CRH cell population in PVN and non-CRH neurons is minimal   . These findings demonstrate that males and females react differently to some stressors but not others . Specifically , social isolation has definitive , CORT-dependent effects on CRH neurons in female , but not male mice . By contrast , both males and females show indistinguishable responses to an acute physical swim stress . In particular , our findings highlight the importance of a social network in females and provides a neurobiological framework for further testing the underlying thesis of ‘tend and befriend’ strategy for females in response to stress  . This exquisite sensitivity of the brain during the pre-adolescent period  raises intriguing questions about the long-term consequences of subtle environmental and social manipulations on stress responses and behavior in males and females later in life . Sixteen hours prior to the acute stress protocol or slice preparation , mice were housed either individually , in same-sex pairs or same-sex groups  . Single or group -housed mice were randomly assigned to naive or stress conditions . For stress experiments , mice were exposed to a forced swim stress  consisting of 20 min in a glass cylinder  filled with 30–32°C water . 60 min prior to swim stress at a dose of 75 mg/kg in a volume of 50 μL . For female isolation experiments , CORT was dissolved in the drinking water  and given for 24 hr prior to isolation and during the entire isolation period . CRH neurons were identified by their expression of tdTomato . Whole‐cell patch clamp recordings were obtained from CRH neurons using borosilicate glass microelectrodes with tip resistance between 2–5 MΩ . 
Although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the former was thought to determine molecular adaptations of Hb . Here , we suggest that Hb affinity and cooperativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptions that optimized tissue oxygen delivery . We found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values all reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along this landscape that allows for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues for oxygen . Hb represents an excellent model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates  . Hb is a tetrameric allosteric protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery in a manner controlled by the midpoint and slope of its oxygen saturation curve . These macroscopic parameters reflect the effective affinity  and cooperativity  of oxygen binding by Hb , respectively and are traditionally evaluated using the Hill equation , derived assuming an all-or-none mode of binding  . For example , vertebrates native to mountain habitats where low ambient oxygen pressures prevail usually possess Hb that exhibits higher affinity for oxygen than does the Hb of lowland dwellers  . Likewise , Hb in small-sized animals that display high metabolic rates presents lower affinity for oxygen than does the same protein in large-sized animals , again reflecting the adaptive adjustment of tissue oxygen unloading by Hb  . At the same time , such studies ignored the adaptive potential of cooperativity  with respect to Hb function . This is surprising , given that nH also affects Hb tissue oxygen delivery . that mammalian Hbs exhibit variations in the Hill cooperativity value hints at the adaptive potential of the nH trait . Either very high or very low oxygen affinity would result in a low fraction of tissue oxygen delivery unless cooperativity  between Hb subunits is introduced as a means to switch between low- and high-affinity Hb states . It would thus seem that the values of both p50 and nH of Hb should reflect physiological optimization of the tradeoff between O2 loading in the lungs and O2 unloading in tissues , so as to optimize tissue oxygen delivery . Here , we tested whether the values of both p50 and nH of Hb are indeed optimized in the case of body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb , relying on extensive evolutionary and physiological oxygen saturation datasets available for mammalian Hb proteins . The former comprises a set of oxygen binding curves of homologous Hb proteins from different mammalian species , all measured under similar physiological conditions  . By deriving the explicit mathematical dependence of both p50 and nH on the MWC parameters of a tetrameric protein , we were able to draw the theoretical ‘biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape’ at half-saturation that graphically describes how nH varies with changes in the values of the MWC parameters . The mapping of experimentally derived Hill and MWC parameters of all evolutionary and physiological dataset curves on this landscape provided insight into the mechanism underlying the adaptive behavior of p50 and nH with respect to tissue oxygen delivery by mammalian Hb and their relation to organism fitness . The evolutionary and physiological datasets for Hb used in the current study were respectively compiled in the meta-analysis of Hb function by Milo et al . Specifically , the Hb evolutionary dataset comprises 14 different mammalian Hb oxygen saturation curves obtained under similar physiological conditions  . The Hb physiological dataset comprises 26 different human Hb saturation curves collected under a variety of different physiological conditions , including those involving changes in H+  , CO2  and 2 , 3-BPG   concentrations . For each dataset curve , the magnitude of cooperativity in oxygen binding was evaluated using either the Hill  or MWC model  . Instead , Hb oxygen binding generally involves intermediate ligation and conformational species , as delineated by the MWC allosteric model    . In the classical MWC model , cooperativity in substrate binding  is determined by both L and c  . To describe the driving force  that shape Hb affinity and cooperativity oxygen binding properties , one must first derive the exact relationship between p50 and nH and the parameters of the MWC model . 5 can be obtained by setting Y¯MWC  to a value of 0 . com/OlgaRL/MWC_Parameters  . Plotting the three-dimensional surface of the Hill slope at half-saturation  as a function of both logL and logc  generates what we refer to as the theoretical ‘biophysical Hill landscape’ for a tetrameric MWC protein  . This relative insensitivity of nHMWC to changes in physiological conditions was referred to as a ‘buffering of cooperativity’ phenomenon by the MWC model founders  . Using the biophysical Hill landscape described here , we can now examine where evolutionary and physiological considerations have affected Hb behavior . Where along the three-dimensional nHMWC landscape can one find the  points of the different binding curves of the evolutionary and physiological Hb datasets ? As can be seen in Supplementary file 1 , the different mammal Hbs exhibit variations in both L and c values , thus giving rise to different Hill values  . When mapped onto the theoretical Hill landscape , the calculated Hill values of all mammalian Hbs reside close to the maximum points of the bell-shaped contours of the three-dimensional Hill landscape  . Furthermore , the logarithms of the values for L and c of the different Hbs are linearly correlated  with a slope value of −2 . We thus suggest that the observed linearity between mammalian logL and logc values does not imply causation or is an artifact but rather points to co-evolution of the two MWC parameters so as to shape Hb cooperativity close to the maximum value . Nevertheless , even with such limitations , the results derived from the evolutionary dataset support the hypothesis that changes in mammalian Hb binding and conformation have been tuned during evolution , giving rise to close to maximum cooperativity in oxygen binding , albeit yielding a different maximum nH value in each case . To further examine whether this indeed is the case , we considered the human Hb physiological dataset . As highlighted above , a buffering of cooperativity regime is observed around a maximum cooperativity Hill point . For the physiological Hb dataset , a cross-section of the biophysical Hill landscape at the characteristic c value of human Hb should be considered . We thus examined where along the bell-shaped human Hb nH-logL curve do the characteristic pairs of logL-nH values of the 26 physiological dataset curves reside . Significant deviations from the maximum cooperativity value of wild-type human Hb were also observed for naturally occurring Hb mutants , such as the Kansas and Chesapeake variants  . The clustering of all logL-nH experimental data points of the H+ , CO2 and 2 , 3-BPG datasets around the maximum point reveals that the Hill value for human Hb is relatively insensitive to changes in physiological conditions . Such nH-insensitive behavior was noted for the pH-related Bohr effect of Hb  and later extended to other allosteric effectors of Hb  . Our results showing the invariance of nH with respect to logL thus provide a mechanistic explanation , based on the MWC model parameters , for the ‘buffering of cooperativity’ property of Hb . Such behavior should only appear if human Hb had evolved to present maximum cooperativity in oxygen binding  . As site-directed point mutants of Hb are not subjected to the selection pressure that leads to maximum cooperativity , the values of logL-nH pairs for such mutants fall off the extremum point of the logL-nH cross-section  . We next explored the potential evolutionary and physiological advantages of setting Hb cooperativity around the maximum nH point . We asked the following questions: Does the value of the maximum Hill point determine the sensitivity of Hb to tissue oxygen unloading ? Does the value of the maximum nH point affect the dynamic range of the buffering of cooperativity phenomenon ? How is Hb protein unbinding sensitivity changes within the buffering of cooperativity range ? To answer these questions , we turned to Equation 2 and the biophysical Hill landscape  . Using the MWC equation , we generated ligand saturation binding curves exhibiting increasing maximum Hill cooperativity values  . Under such conditions , the affinity and maximum Hill point are correlated  . It thus seems that under the maximum cooperativity parameter condition , a tradeoff exist between the cooperativity and affinity properties of a MWC-type protein . The ΔY¯100 → 40%/Δlogα parameter depends on both the affinity and cooperativity attributes of the binding curve and reflects the sensitivity of the MWC protein to substrate unloading . Higher maximum Hill points thus ensure higher sensitivity for substrate unbinding by the MWC protein . To assess the broadness of the buffering of cooperativity regime around each maximum cooperativity point , we next generated a set of physiological dataset curves by systematically changing the value of L by several orders of magnitude , such that the resulting saturation curves exhibited essentially the same Hill value for ligand binding as did the original maximum Hill value  . This ensured that our analysis remained within the ‘buffering of cooperativity’ region , characteristic of each maximum Hill value  . One such physiological dataset generated around the maximum point of human Hb  is shown in Figure 4e . For curves based on other maximum cooperativity points , see Figure 4—figure supplement 1 . Plotting the dependence of ΔlogL on the maximum cooperativity Hill value  reveals that higher maximum Hill values give rise to broader L ranges , where ‘buffering of cooperativity’ is observed . The fact that different mammalian Hbs exhibit different maximum nH values  , combined with the observation made above whereby systematically higher maximum Hill value gives rise to higher sensitivities to substrate unloading by MWC proteins  , led us to hypothesize that the maximum cooperativity point of Hb has been tuned during evolution to satisfy the particular physiological requirements of different tissues for oxygen supply . Rather than taking the affinity-centric approach employed in the earlier studies , we instead adopted a complementary cooperativity-centric mindset and re-fitted all of the saturation curves to the Hill equation to derive both nH and p50 values for Hb of each animal  . This assertion is further strengthened by the results shown in Figure 5b describing the linear relation between affinity  and cooperativity  , as expected for parameter values underlying maximum cooperativity  . Specifically , the greater an animal’s metabolic rate , the higher was the observed maximum Hill cooperativity value of oxygen binding by Hb . These empirical observations directly relate the maximum cooperativity and affinity properties of Hb to an organismal-level trait that is related to fitness  . Our findings revealed that mammalian Hb cooperativity values have been tuned during evolution to reside on a ridge of the theoretical biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape describing a MWC protein  . These maximum points are thus unique points along the Hill cooperativity scale continuum . There is no a priori reason to expect that physiological and evolutionary diversity in Hb would be reflected by this low dimensional ridge feature of the Hill landscape . As can be seen in the three dimensional Hill landscape , many combinations of L and c values can give rise to the same Hill value . The observed variations in maximum cooperativity Hill values among mammalian Hb proteins thus reflect co-evolution of binding and conformational changes of Hb . Our results thus reveal the evolutionary strategy underlying the observed variations in Hb behavior . The functional advantages of the balance between the relative affinity and conformational ratio of Hb quaternary states underlying the maximum Hill point become clear when considering that both the affinity and cooperativity parameters of Hb saturation curves affect tissue oxygen unloading . Either very high or very low L values would give rise to hyperbolic oxygen saturation curves with an nH value of one  , which would ensure poor and unregulated tissue oxygen unloading by Hb . Second , tuning the Hb maximum Hill point to higher values further leads to greater sensitivity to tissue oxygen unloading  . Third , parameter adjustments that lead to higher maximum nH values also give rise to reduced Hb oxygen affinity   , thus reinforcing oxygen unloading upon Hb transfer from the lungs to other tissues . Indeed , the affinity-cooperativity tradeoff typical of the ridge of maximum cooperativity suggests that cooperativity can compensate for changes in affinity , with respect to tissue oxygen unloading , as usually described in any Biochemistry textbook . Finally , the co-varied c and L values underlying maximum cooperativity allow for control of the broadness of the ‘buffering of cooperativity’ regime  . Such changes are controlled by the maximum cooperativity and affinity values of Hb , in turn determined by changes in both L and c  . The linear dependence between the metabolic rate of an animal and the maximum Hill value for Hb  , combined with the results presented in Figure 4c , indicates that nH , like p50 , carries adaptive value with respect to mammalian Hb tissue oxygen unloading . As such , small body-sized animals presenting high metabolic rates require high oxygen supplies that can be more efficiently delivered by Hb presenting higher maximum Hill values . In this respect , the biophysical nH landscape of Hb can be regarded as a biophysical fitness landscape that serves to bridge the genotype-phenotype gap in assessing the relation between sequence variations in Hb  and their ensuing fitness effects  . Evolutionary tuning of mammalian Hb maximum cooperativity and affinity points , achieved by co-varying the relative affinity and conformational ratio of its quaternary states , thus regulates tissue oxygen delivery by Hb and serves as one mean to meet the distinct needs of different animal tissues for oxygen  . These findings suggest that all these MWC proteins evolved to present maximum cooperativity values in ligand binding and operate under the L = c -n/2 parameter regime that gives rise to the buffering of cooperativity phenomenon . The evolutionary dataset comprised oxygen saturation curves of Hb from 14 different mammal samples obtained under similar physiological conditions . Cooperativity in oxygen binding by Hb was assessed using the Hill or MWC models , as quantitatively described by Equation 1 and 2 . The dependence of nH at half-saturation  on the MWC elementary parameters was obtained by applying Equation 4 to the MWC equation , assuming Y¯MWC equals ½ . It should be noted that nHMWC  is an approximate measure of nH , maxMWC , the more natural Hill value for specifying homotropic cooperativity in the framework of the MWC model  . Furthermore , nH , maxMWC is equal to nHMWC exactly at the maximum cooperativity point  . For evaluating the sensitivity of oxygen unloading , simulated MWC-based Y¯ curves were first generated around several maximum cooperativity values by systematically changing c and adjusting L so as to fulfill the Lc2=1 maximum cooperativity criterion . Y¯ data were fitted using either the Hill or MWC equations  . 
How sporozoites locate and enter a blood vessel is a critical , but poorly understood process . In this study , we examine sporozoite motility and their interaction with dermal blood vessels , using intravital microscopy in mice . Our data suggest that sporozoites exhibit two types of motility: in regions far from blood vessels , they exhibit ‘avascular motility’ , defined by high speed and less confinement , while in the vicinity of blood vessels their motility is more constrained . We find that curvature of sporozoite tracks engaging with vasculature optimizes contact with dermal capillaries . Imaging of sporozoites with mutations in key adhesive proteins highlight the importance of the sporozoite's gliding speed and its ability to modulate adhesive properties for successful exit from the inoculation site . Through the bite of an infected mosquito , the mammalian host is infected with Plasmodium sporozoites , which migrate through the skin to invade blood vessels . Sporozoites are then carried by the blood flow to the liver , where they initiate a liver- and subsequently a blood-stage infection  . Sporozoite motility , a substrate-dependent gliding motility , is essential for the exit from the dermis , and as a result for sporozoite infectivity  . 1 μm/s , sporozoites move at 1–3 μm/s  . Given the energy cost of such a remarkable speed , fast migration is likely key for sporozoite infectivity . While on two-dimensional substrates in vitro , salivary gland sporozoites glide in a circular pattern . CSΔN sporozoites show only a small reduction in gliding motility in vitro  , suggesting that these mutant sporozoites have additional impairments in vivo . Unlike the CSΔN sporozoites , TRAP-VAL sporozoites display a significantly reduced gliding speed in vitro , moving at approximately 0 . Here , we present a quantitative in vivo study on the motility of Plasmodium sporozoites over time , and by visualization of dermal vascular endothelia we describe their interaction with dermal blood vessels . We characterize changes in sporozoite motility over the first 2 hr after intradermal inoculation and identify an altered type of sporozoite motility in proximity of blood vessels . We rendered the CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites fluorescent in order to study the function of these surface proteins in dermal parasite motility and blood vessel recognition and found that CSΔN sporozoites spend more time engaging with blood vessels , yet are unable to enter the blood circulation . Imaging TRAP-VAL sporozoites , we find that their slow gliding speed significantly decreases the volume of tissue explored , which likely results in reduced ability to encounter blood vessels . To quantitatively assess sporozoite motility over the first 120 min after inoculation into the skin of a mouse , we generated P . berghei sporozoites expressing the fluorescent protein mCherry under the control of a strong sporozoite-stage promoter  and visualized them in the ear pinna . 4-min time-lapse stacks were acquired 5 min , 10 min , 20 min , 30 min , 60 min , and 120 min after intradermal inoculation  and the paths of migrating sporozoites were manually tracked using Imaris software . To characterize changes in sporozoite dissemination over the first 120 min after inoculation , the MSD of sporozoites was plotted over time . 003Video 1 . berghei sporozoites from 5 min to 120 min after intradermal inoculation . Sporozoite motility is increasingly constrained over time and is not well described by a Brownian walk . Time-lapse microscopy of sporozoites was started at the indicated time points after intradermal inoculation and 4 min long videos were acquired . Meandering and linearly moving sporozoites were manually tracked using Imaris software and for each time point 11 representative reconstructed tracks were plotted to a common origin to visualize parasite dispersal over time . Mean square displacement  of sporozoite tracks over the duration of the 4 min video , at indicated time points after inoculation , with inset showing the slope obtained through linear regression fitting of MSD curves . The probability distribution P  of squared final sporozoite displacements at the end of the 4-min videos . Apparent speed of gliding sporozoites . The percentage of sporozoites gliding continuously in the same circle throughout the duration of the video , showing an increasing proportion of exclusively circling sporozoites at later time points . Straightness of sporozoite tracks , the ratio of displacement to track length of both meandering and linearly moving , as well as continuously circling sporozoites . Absolute number of sporozoites exhibiting different motility patterns over time . Motility is increasingly constrained over time after sporozoite inoculation by mosquito bite . A mosquito infected with PbmCherry sporozoites was allowed to probe on the ear pinnae of an anethesized mouse and the first 4-min time-lapse was acquired 3 min after the proboscis was seen in the field of view . Sporozoites were manually tracked using Imaris software to compare the MSD of sporozoites at 3 min  , 10 min  , 20 min  , 40 min  , 60 min  , and 110 min  after mosquito bite . Proportion of manually counted sporozoite motility patterns are shown as percent of total sporozoites . 007 Since the distribution of displacements is more sensitive to the nature of the migration than the MSD , we determined the probability that a sporozoite would reach a given final displacement at different time points after inoculation . This allowed us to ascertain whether sporozoite dissemination mimics that of a Brownian walk . Importantly , the analysis of sporozoite displacement only included sporozoites predominantly moving in linear or meandering patterns . While the ability of sporozoites to disperse decreases significantly after 20 min and further during the following 100 min , the apparent gliding speed does not change significantly until 60 min after inoculation  , which shows that the decrease in MSD is not merely a reflection of sporozoites moving more slowly . This prompted us to look at the pattern with which sporozoites move at the different time points . While at early time points , this sporozoite behavior is seen less frequently , at 20 min and 30 min after inoculation , approximately 22% and 36% of total sporozoites exhibit continuously circling motility . Importantly , at these time points the increased percentage of circling sporozoites is not the result of the other motile sporozoites leaving the field , but rather an increase in the absolute number of sporozoites that are exclusively circling  . However , by 60 and 120 min , there are 20 and 40% fewer sporozoites in the field , respectively , and an increased number of non-motile sporozoites . Thus , at 120 min almost all moving sporozoites are circling  . Our analysis shows that the change in sporozoite trajectories at 20 and 30 min was not due to their slowing down  . This analysis included the entire population of motile sporozoites  . As shown in Figure 1F , the straightness of sporozoite tracks gradually decreases over the first 120 min after inoculation with the most significant decrease seen beginning at 20 min after inoculation . These data suggest that sporozoite motility changes over time such that after an initial phase of maximal dispersal , sporozoites move in more constrained circular paths . Of note , a similiar change in sporozoite motility was seen in data acquired from sporozoites imaged after inoculation by a probing infected mosquito , with a significant drop in MSD 20 min after mosquito bite and a concomitant increase in the number of sporozoites engaging in circular motility  . Unfortunately , these data are more difficult to acquire because of technical issues in finding and capturing , by video-microscopy , sporozoites inoculated by a probing mosquito . In order to exit the skin and enter the blood circulation , sporozoites must encounter and penetrate blood vessels . Although it was initially postulated that sporozoites might also reach the liver via the lymphatic vessels , a previous study found that sporozoites entering lymphatic vessels in the skin do not travel beyond the draining lymph node , and thus do not participate in liver stage infection  . To characterize the ability of sporozoites to engage with dermal vasculature , we visualized vascular endothelia by labeling the pan-endothelial junction molecule CD31  by intravenous injection of fluorescently labeled rat anti-CD31  . This was confirmed by labeling lymphatic vessels with antibodies against the lymphatic vessel endothelial receptor 1   , which in the time frame of our experiments revealed no co-localization with CD31  . Additionally , lymphatic vessels , being wider and flatter and frequently possessing blind endings , have a different shape than blood vessels . We observed sporozoites gliding in close proximity to CD31-labeled vessels and frequently found sporozoites gliding in parallel to or in circular paths around the vessel  . Surprisingly , sporozoites do not immediately penetrate blood vessels after contacting them . Instead , they move on and around vessels for significant periods of time , frequently even detaching from vessels and moving back into avascular areas of the tissue  . We quantified the time sporozoites spend in proximity to blood vessels and found that on average , sporozoites spend 28% of their gliding time near or on vessels , which in our 4-min videos correspond to over a minute of total gliding time . Sporozoites recognize dermal blood vessels . Time-lapse microscopy of sporozoites , 10 min after intradermal inoculation , and CD31-labeled vascular endothelia . Maximum intensity projection over 240 s shows trajectories of moving sporozoites  and blood vessels   . Sporozoites were manually tracked using Imaris software and tracks overlapping with CD31+ vessels are colored orange , while tracks in between CD31+ vessels are white . For panels B–D , 18 videos were processed and 313 tracks of sporozoites moving in proximity of blood vessels and 163 tracks of sporozoites moving in between blood vessels were generated . Apparent speed , with lines representing mean values , reveals a decrease in gliding speed once sporozoites are in proximity of blood vessels . MSD plot shows significant decrease in displacement of sporozoite tracks in the vicinity of vasculature . Extrapolated track curvature , as defined by 1/radius  , of perivascular and avascular sporozoite tracks . Anti-CD31 does not stain lymphatic vessels early after its inoculation . Dual live immunostaining for the lymphatic vessel hyaluronan receptor-1 and the panendothelial marker CD31 . Anti-mouse CD31 AF-64 was inoculated 3 hr prior to imaging and though blood vessels are stained  , at this time point , lymphatic vessels remain unstained with anti-CD31 . 010Video 2 . berghei sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation together with CD31-labeled vascular endothelia . 010 To determine whether sporozoite motility changes with the encounter of a blood vessel , we manually tracked sporozoite trajectories and produced two data sets; the first for time periods in which sporozoites move in proximity to CD31-labeled structures  and the second for time periods of gliding in areas without CD31-labeled vessels . Analysis of the two tracking sets showed that compared to sporozoites gliding independently of CD31-labeled vessels , the average apparent speed of gliding sporozoites decreases once they approach a blood vessel from 1 . To compare the dispersal of sporozoites gliding in avascular tissue to those gliding in proximity to vascular structures , the MSD of the two populations was plotted over time . As shown in Figure 2C , the displacement of sporozoites gliding on or in proximity to blood vessels is decreased , as is the slope obtained from linear regression fitting of the MSD plot  . This is partially a result of the decrease in gliding speed of these sporozoites , but also due to an increase in sporozoite confinement . This is demonstrated by an analysis of the curvature of sporozoite tracks , which is the curvature of the circles fitted to every 10-s interval of a given track and is defined as the inverse of the radius of that circle  . 125 μm−1 , the majority of sporozoite tracks that overlap with blood vessels describe trajectories that have a curvature of 0 . These data demonstrate that sporozoite motility can change in response to environmental signals encountered by the sporozoite and suggest that sporozoites in the dermis exhibit two types of motility: ‘avascular motility’ , which is defined by high speed and less confinement , leading to maximal displacements in avascular areas and a more constrained ‘perivascular motility’ , which is observed once the parasite glides in proximity of a blood vessel . We characterized the motility of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites in the dermis to elucidate the function of these surface proteins in vivo , specifically focusing on parasite motility and blood vessel entry . berghei parasite line expressing mCherry under the control of a strong sporozoite-stage promoter  . CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites were imaged 10 and 30 min after intradermal injection into the ear pinna of an anesthetized mouse , and sporozoite trajectories were visualized by maximum intensity projection of the 4-min videos  . To quantify the proportion of mutant sporozoites that were motile , sporozoites were manually counted , with sporozoites being considered non-motile if they moved less than approximately 2 μm throughout the duration of the video  . An average of 66% of wild-type control sporozoites are motile 10 min after intradermal injection and 52% are motile at the 30 min time point . At 10 min after injection , only 47% of CSΔN sporozoites are motile , however , this number is stable over time and similar to wild-type control levels at 30 min . The analysis of TRAP-VAL sporozoites showed that only 40% and 20% of the inoculated sporozoites are motile at 10 min and 30 min after inoculation , respectively  . Intradermal motility of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites . Time-lapse microscopy of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites  . Maximum intensity projections of videos acquired 10 min after inoculation visualize trajectories of sporozoites . Proportion of motile sporozoites was manually counted in videos acquired 10 min  and 30 min  after inoculation . Apparent speed of sporozoites 10 min and 30 min after inoculation , averaged over the 4-min video . Confirmation of strongly reduced infectivity of CSΔN sporozoites upon intradermal inoculation . Western blot analysis of wild-type control and CSΔN salivary gland sporozoite lysates . Fluorescence and phase-contrast images of unpermeabilized wild-type control and CSΔN salivary gland sporozoites . Confirmation of reduced infectivity of TRAP-VAL sporozoites determined by prepatent period after exposure to the bites of mosquitoes infected with wild-type control or TRAP-VAL parasites . 014Video 3 . Wild-type control  and CSΔN  sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation . Note that an overlay of two independently acquired videos was generated using ImageJ to allow direct comparison of WT to CSΔN sporozoite motility . 015Video 4 . Wild-type control  and TRAP-VAL  sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation . Note that an overlay of two independently acquired videos was generated using ImageJ to allow direct comparison of WT to TRAP-VAL sporozoite motility . 015 Average speed of sporozoites was determined by manually tracking sporozoites throughout the duration of video , which includes periods of stopping and phases of continuous movement . Compared to wild-type control sporozoites , which move with an average of 1 . 57 μm/s , CSΔN sporozoites move with 26%-reduced average speed of 1 . In contrast , at 10 min after inoculation , TRAP-VAL sporozoites glide much more slowly , with an average speed of 0 . 42 μm/s at 30 min after inoculation . In agreement with the reduction in gliding speed of the CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites in vivo , it became evident that 10 min after intradermal inoculation , both mutant sporozoites disperse less than wild-type control parasites , which was visualized by plotting reconstructed sporozoite trajectories to a common origin  . To quantitatively characterize this difference in the motility pattern , sporozoites gliding 10 min after intradermal inoculation were tracked and the MSD was plotted over time . The visibly reduced dispersal of mutant sporozoites was reflected in a decreased slope obtained from linear regression fitting of the MSD plot  . Compared to wild-type control sporozoites , slopeWT = 2370 , the slope of mutant sporozoites is reduced to slopeCSΔN = 1190 and slopeTRAP-VAL = 740 , resulting in a decrease of over 40% and 70% of final displacement of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites , respectively . Decreased dispersal of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites in vivo . Time-lapse microscopy of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites . Sporozoites were manually tracked using Imaris software and 20 representative tracks of each WT , CSΔN , and TRAP-VAL sporozoites were plotted to a common origin , revealing a decreased dispersal of mutant sporozoites . Data shown was obtained from tracking 179 WT sporozoites  , 211 CSΔN sporozoites  , and 215 TRAP-VAL sporozoites  . 016 Visualization of sporozoites and dermal blood vessels shows that sporozoites glide alongside dermal vascular endothelia and frequently circle extensively around the vessel  . Additionally , sporozoites that are moving in proximity to blood vessels often disengage and move away from the blood vessel into avascular tissue . To quantitatively assess the time a population of sporozoites spends gliding alongside or around blood vessels , wild-type control and mutant sporozoites were manually tracked while moving in proximity to blood vessels  . Unexpectedly , it was found that compared to wild-type control sporozoites , which spend 28% of their motile time gliding in close proximity to blood vessels , CSΔN sporozoites spend significantly more time in association with dermal vascular endothelia; an average of 40 . 7% of their motile time is spent close to blood vessels  . In contrast , TRAP-VAL sporozoites spend the same proportion of their motile time gliding close to blood vessels as wild-type control parasites  . 017Video 5 . CSΔN sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation together with CD31-labeled vascular endothelia . 018Video 6 . TRAP-VAL sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation together with CD31-labeled vascular endothelia . Sporozoite interaction with dermal vascular endothelia . Time-lapse microscopy of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation  . Maximum intensity projection over 240 s reveals trajectories of WT , CSΔN , and TRAP-VAL sporozoites  moving in the dermis with CD31-labeled vascular endothelia  . The time sporozoites spend in proximity to CD31-labeled vessels was quantified by manual tracking of sporozoites and is expressed as percent of motile time  or total observed time  . Graphs show significant increase in the time CSΔN , but not TRAP-VAL sporozoites spend actively gliding on or around blood vessels . To generate the MSD of sporozoites moving in proximity to CD31-labeled vessels , 313 WT , 352 CSΔN , and 192 TRAP-VAL tracks of sporozoites moving in proximity to CD31-labeled vessels were generated and compared to 163 WT , 121 CSΔN , and 89 TRAP-VAL tracks of sporozoites moving in avascular areas of the dermis . To calculate the MSD of the obtained sporozoite tracks with various duration times , all tracks were uniformly fragmented into tracks of 30 s in duration . MSD plot shows decrease in displacement of mutant sporozoite tracks in proximity to blood vessels . Apparent speed of wild-type control and mutant sporozoites in the proximity of blood vessels or in avascular portions of the dermis with lines representing mean values . These data reveal a significant decrease in gliding speed of CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites , once the sporozoite is approaching vasculature , similar to wild-type control sporozoites . Blood and lymphatic vessel invasion events were manually counted . Invasion was classified similar to previously descriptions  , with blood vessel invasion being defined by a sudden increase in speed or visual entry of the blood vessel and disappearance out of the field of view . The proportion of invading sporozoites as percent of total sporozoites in the field of view is shown . 06% of WT sporozoites invaded blood vessels and lymphatic vessels , respectively . This was in sharp contrast to the blood and lymphatic vessel invasion rates of CSΔN  and TRAP-VAL  ; n equals number of videos analyzed . Blood vessel and lymphatic vessel invasion events and sporozoite MSD in videos acquired with and without CD31-labeling of dermal vasculature . Mean square displacement  of sporozoite tracks over the duration of 4-min videos , at indicated time points after inoculation , showing comparable displacement of sporozoites in the dermis of mice with and without CD31 labeling . The number of videos processed was: 10 min-all videos  , 10 min-without CD31  , 10 min-with CD31  . 020 To determine whether the mutant sporozoites undergo a similar switch from ‘avascular motility’ to ‘perivascular motility’ when approaching a blood vessel , we manually tracked mutant sporozoites and produced two data sets , as described above , for sporozoites moving in proximity to CD31-labeled structures and for sporozoites gliding in areas without CD31-labeled vessels . MSD analysis of the two tracking sets revealed that similar to wild-type control sporozoites , perivascular CSΔN tracks have a decreased MSD and gliding speed  , indicating that while CSΔN sporozoites spend more time gliding in proximity to vasculature , the switch from ‘avascular’ to ‘perivascular motility’ appears normal . TRAP-VAL sporozoites also exhibit differential ‘avascular’ and ‘perivascular motility’ , although the differences in MSD and speed between these two types of tracks is less pronounced  . Invasion was classified as previously described  , with blood vessel invasion defined by a sudden increase in speed or visual entry of the blood vessel and disappearance out of the field of view . It should be noted that the speed with which sporozoites appear to be carried out of the field is slower in videos that include CD31-labeling , as a result of the slower acquisition speed due to capture of two channels . On average , in a 4-min video beginning at 10 min after inoculation , 2 . 38% of wild-type control sporozoites in the field of view enters the blood circulation , and 2 . 06% of sporozoites enters the lymphatic system  . Blood vessel invasion of the CSΔN mutant is reduced to 0 . 05% of TRAP-VAL sporozoites is seen to enter into blood vessels  , which is consistent with the decrease in infectivity of these mutants upon intradermal inoculation  . Invasion of the lymphatic system by CSΔN sporozoites is reduced to 0 . 26% and not detected at all in the case of TRAP-VAL sporozoites  . Importantly , CD31-labeling is not interfering with entry into dermal blood or lymphatic vessels or parasite dispersal , as vessel invasion rates , as well as sporozoite MSDs , are comparable in videos acquired in mice with and without labeled blood vessels  . 021Video 7 . Wild-type control sporozoites 10 min after intradermal inoculation together with CD31-labeled vascular endothelia highlighting blood and lymphatic vessel invasion events . Squares indicate blood vessel invasion and circles point to sporozoites entered into the lymphatic system . Blood vessel invasion events are characterized by a sudden increase in speed  or visual entry of the blood vessel and disappearance out of the field of view  . 022Video 8 . Blood vessel invasion by wild-type control sporozoites in the absence of CD31 labeling . Imaging was performed 10 min after intradermal inoculation and squares indicate blood vessel invasion events , characterized by a sudden increase in speed . 022 This dramatic decrease in blood vessel invasion by the mutants is likely due to several factors . Since only motile sporozoites are included in the calculation of MSD , it is important to consider the increased number of non-motile CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites that together with the decreased dispersal , could account for the low numbers of mutants entering the blood circulation . To look at this , we normalized the total time control and mutant sporozoites spent in proximity of blood vessels , by including all sporozoites in the field , that is , both motile and non-motile sporozoites . As shown in Figure 5B  , TRAP-VAL sporozoites spend on average , 40% less time on vessels compared to wild-type control sporozoites , a decrease that is due , in part , to the large number of non-motile TRAP-VAL sporozoites . Nonetheless , the population of TRAP-VAL sporozoites still spends approximately 10% of its time on or near blood vessels , yet blood vessel entry events were reduced by 97% , suggesting that even when TRAP-VAL sporozoites do contact vessels they cannot invade them . This is even more dramatically illustrated by the CSΔN mutant that spends approximately the same total time on vessels as the control wild-type sporozoites  , yet blood vessel entry events were reduced by 90% . These data point to an additional impairment in blood vessel entry , that is , even when they do contact blood vessels , they cannot invade them . Indeed , both CSΔN and TRAP-VAL mutations result in the increased surface exposure of cell-adhesion domains: in CSΔN sporozoites , the absence of the N-terminus leads to constitutive exposure of the cell-adhesive type I thrombospondin domain in the C-terminus of the protein  and in TRAP-VAL sporozoites , the altered proteolytic cleavage site leads to the retention of TRAP molecules on the sporozoite's surface  . The gliding motility of Plasmodium sporozoites is essential for their infectivity . Previous reports have observed sporozoite motility in the dermis  , but an in-depth analysis of their motility over time has not been performed . Intravital imaging of sporozoites over the first 120 min after inoculation highlights significant changes in their motility in this time frame . Within the first 20 min after intradermal inoculation , sporozoites displace with high speed and minimal constraint , which likely maximizes the volume of tissue that is explored by the population of sporozoites . After this initial period of dispersal , sporozoite motility changes . Most significantly starting 20 min after inoculation , the migratory pattern of sporozoites becomes increasingly confined , and a growing number of sporozoites engage in continuous circular motility . We hypothesize that this motility pattern optimizes engagement with blood vessels that will ultimately lead to blood vessel entry . 1 hr after inoculation , sporozoites begin to slow down and a significant proportion stop moving with the proportion of non-motile sporozoites increasing to 70% by 2 hr . In contrast to previous reports of apparently random motility of sporozoites in the dermis , which was suggested to be only environmentally constrained  , our data show that distribution of displacements of migrating sporozoites is not Gaussian , which would be expected if sporozoites migrated in a pattern similar to a Brownian walk . Our observations of an altered sporozoite migration in proximity to blood vessels point to recognition of the vessel by the sporozoites , further demonstrating that sporozoite migration in the dermis is not well described by the statistics of a Brownian walk . This suggests that internal components or external host–pathogen interactions bias the directionality of sporozoite movement away from Brownian motion . The larger than expected displacements may allow the sporozoite to cover large distances between the blood vessels , which may enable the sporozoite to encounter blood vessels with higher efficiency than Brownian random walkers . We found that once the sporozoite approaches a blood vessel , the more linear type of motility is lost and the sporozoite switches to a more curved and confined motility . This points to a specific host–parasite interaction between the parasite and the environment of the blood vessel and provides evidence for the ability of the sporozoite to alter motility in response to host factors . Indeed , in vitro , sporozoites have been shown to respond to obstacle cues in micro-fabricated arrays so it is possible that environmental constraints alone account for the switch in the sporozoites' migration pattern  . However , our observation that the sporozoites' walk statistics change in proximity to blood vessels indicates that there is a specific recognition event that leads to this change . Sporozoites appear to engage in two types of motility: ‘avascular motility’ which is likely to optimize dispersal , and ‘perivascular motility’ defined by more confined trajectories with increased curvature . Our analysis of track curvature reveals that sporozoites gliding in the proximity of blood vessels describe trajectories with local curvatures that interestingly relate to the curvature of the capillary vessel  . Indeed , it has been observed previously , that the curvature of the sporozoite matches the geometry of capillaries  and more recently , a study using stochastic computer simulations of sporozoite motility found that in these models , sporozoite interaction with capillaries is greatly enhanced if the parasite has the ability to adapt its curvature and torsion to the surrounding environment  . In addition to the change in sporozoite trajectories , we found that they also had a significant decrease in speed when in the vicinity of blood vessels . , who quantified the speed of a small number of sporozoites gliding around blood vessels and reported a decrease after contact with the vessel  . The importance of high sporozoite gliding speed is highlighted by the behavior of the TRAP-VAL mutant that moves with less than half the motile speed of wild-type control parasites in the dermis . Consequently , TRAP-VAL sporozoites have a significantly decreased chance to encounter and invade a blood vessel , which together with the increase in number of non-motile TRAP-VAL sporozoites , largely explains their reduced infectivity  . CSΔN sporozoites engage in a pattern of ‘avascular’ and ‘perivascular motility’ comparable to that of wild-type sporozoites , suggesting that while gliding in avascular parts of the dermis , their motility is normal . Of particular interest was the observed increase in the association of CSΔN sporozoites with dermal vascular endothelia . We therefore hypothesize that the ability of the sporozoite to dynamically regulate exposure of the TSR is necessary for continued migration through the dermis , which may be crucial for the sporozoite to locate the areas of the vasculature that allow for blood vessel entry or for blood vessel entry itself . More work is needed to determine if this is the case , however , our data with both TRAP-VAL and CSΔN mutant sporozoites demonstrate that the sporozoite's ability to regulate its adhesive intereactions is a key factor for successful movement through and out of the dermis . We show that wild-type control sporozoites spend over a quarter of their time engaging with blood vessels , frequently without successful entry into the blood circulation . This suggests that only certain areas of the vasculature are suitable for sporozoite entry . Thus , there may be certain areas of the vasculature that are preferentially invaded by sporozoites . With this study , we refine our understanding on how the sporozoite navigates through and out of the dermis . Mutant sporozoites that display modest changes in motility pattern or speed have dramatic decreases in blood vessel invasion and infectivity . These data suggest that exit from the inoculation site presents an important barrier for the sporozoite and is therefore an opportune time to intervene . Additionally , our data suggest that an analysis of dermal sporozoite motility could be incorporated in the evaluation of future vaccine strategies to predict efficiency of new vaccine targets . Salivary glands were dissected 18–22 days after the infectious blood meal , homogenized in DMEM , and sporozoites were counted using a hemocytometer . Sporozoites in the ear pinna of mice were imaged similar to a previously described protocol  . 
We evolved Saccharomyces cerevisiae for 1000 generations without the important polarity gene BEM1 . Initially the bem1∆ lineages rapidly increase in fitness and then slowly reach >90% of the fitness of their BEM1 ancestors at the end of the evolution . Sequencing their genomes and monitoring polarization reveals a common evolutionary trajectory , with a fixed sequence of adaptive mutations , each improving cell polarization by inactivating proteins . In cell polarization and movement , a biochemical and biophysical picture is emerging of how those complex functional modules self-organize to accomplish their functions  . The module we perturbed was polarization in budding yeast  . Yeast cells polarize and bud by localizing and activating the small GTPase , Cdc42 , at a single site  . In haploid cells , polarization is directed by a historical mark deposited in the previous cell cycle , but even when the mark is absent , yeast cells still polarize efficiently , albeit at a random location  . We strongly perturbed yeast polarization by removing Bem1 , a regulator of Cdc42 , which recruits the guanine exchange factor  Cdc24 as well as Cdc42 to the membrane where Cdc24 activates membrane-bound Cdc42 . We decided to delete Bem1 because previous research suggests that this protein is a relatively young component in polarity establishment that had a different role in ancestral fungi  . Deleting this component of polarity could thus reveal other alternative , more evolutionarily ancient polarization modules . BEM1 is an important polarity gene . Cartoon showing the components of the machinery for cell polarization relevant for this work . Images of two plates where 105 wild-type  vs 105 bem1∆ spores were plated . Differential interference contrast  images of bem1∆ and wild-type cells that grew from a single spore , showing that bem1∆ cells do not polarize effectively and therefore grow very large compared to wild type . Histograms of the time between cytokinesis and bud formation for bem1∆ and wild-type cells that were born after germination from spores . DIC microscopy image of a microcolony that grew from a single bem1∆ cell that was taken from the colony that was used to start the experimental evolution experiment of the A-lines . 004 Deleting Bem1 led to profound defects in cell polarization and proliferation , but cells recovered to nearly wild-type growth rates over 1000 generations . Systematic analysis of the interactions between the mutated genes revealed epistatic interactions that explained the evolutionary trajectory that gradually improved cell polarization . We started by constructing bem1∆ cells , in the W303 strain background , by sporulating a heterozygous BEM1/bem1∆ diploid . bem1∆ spores formed colonies at a frequency of 6 ± 0 . 4 × 10−5  , while wild-type  spores formed colonies at a frequency of 0 . We imaged bem1∆ and wild-type spores as they germinated and followed several subsequent cell divisions  , where we measured the time of budding as a proxy for polarization: cells cannot bud without a successful polarization event . The majority of bem1∆ cells  did not polarize within 500 min but grew isotropically resulting in very large cells  that often lysed   . The bem1∆ cells that did polarize ,  , polarize fast , in contrast to wild-type cells , which show a wider distribution of polarization times , but always eventually polarize successfully  . We used a single bem1∆ colony , as well as a control , wild-type colony , as the starting point for our evolution experiments . From both colonies , we started with 10 wild-type and 10 bem1∆ cultures , which we evolved for one thousand generations by serial dilutions , regularly freezing down a sample  , resulting  in nine surviving bem1∆ lineages and seven wild-type lineages . The initial growth rate of the bem1∆ lineages was approximately 12 times lower than the wild-type growth rate . By the end of the experiment , however , the bem1∆ cells grew at almost the rate of their wild-type ancestors  . Two bem1∆ lines , A1 and A2 , are plotted individually because they are discussed in more detail later in the article , and one line , A8 , became diploid and was excluded from further analysis . We examined how the cell size distribution , which is an approximation for polarization dynamics  , changed during the experiment: cells that take longer to polarize are on average larger than cells that polarize fast because yeast cells continue to grow during polarity establishment  . We measured cell size distributions  and fitted them to a log normal distribution to determine the mode , as a measure of the dominant cell size , and standard deviation , which we take as an approximation for noisiness in polarization dynamics . At the beginning of the experiment , bem1∆ cells were larger and showed a wider distribution than the wild-type ancestor  as confirmed by microscopy  . At the end of the experiment , however , both the mode and the standard deviation in bem1∆ cells adapted to wild-type cell size  and growth rate values , suggesting a properly functioning polarization machinery . 005Video 1 . The spore in the bottom-left is wild-type and the spore in the top-right is bem1∆ . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 006Video 2 . DIC microscopy video of a microcolony that grew from an individual bem1∆ spore  in a micro-fabricated channel with constant media supply . Both very large cells , which often lyse , and small , fast dividing cells can be observed . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 007Video 3 . DIC microscopy video of a microcolony that grew from an individual bem1∆ cell , taken from the same colony that was used for the large evolution experiment  . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . Experimental evolution experiments reveal that bem1∆ cells can adapt to wild-type growth rate and cell shape in 1000 generations . Cartoon of experimental evolution of bem1∆ and wild-type for 1000 generations by 100 cycles of serial dilution . The log phase growth rate in bulk was measured for several time points  of the evolution experiment , for different bem1∆  and wild-type lines . The insert shows that the growth rates of bem1∆ cells are close to , but in aggregate significantly lower  than the growth rate of wild-type cells at the end of the evolution experiment . DIC images of wild-type cells  and bem1∆ cells from line A1 at 30  and 1000 generations  , showing changes in cell sizes within and between populations . Cell size distribution for wild-type cells  and bem1∆ cells from line A1 at 30  and 1000 generations  . Subsequently , the mode  and standard deviation  are plotted for several time points of the evolution experiment for bem1∆  and wild-type lines . Variable clumpiness in the evolved wild-type lines . Data as in Figure 2E , where the mode is plotted for several time points of the evolution experiment for bem1∆  and wild-type lines . From the ancestor  as well as line 1  and 4  at 1000 generations , cells are imaged in log-phase with DIC microscopy , to visualize clumpiness . The red circles mark clumps of cells with three or more cells . Data from Figure 2 , Figure 3 , and Figure 4 are combined to show that cell size is a reasonable approximation for polarization time . The mode of the cell size for wild type and line A1 is plotted at 30 , 500 , and 1000 generations on the x-axis . These time points represent mutants that subsequently dominate the population  , 30 gen ≈ bem1Δ bem3Δ , 500 gen ≈ bem1Δ bem3Δ nrp1Δ , 1000 gen ≈ bem1 Δbem3 Δnrp1 bem2Δ . We recreated these mutants in the presence of a polarity marker to measure polarization times  , which is plotted on the Y axis . The plot indeed suggests a linear relation between cell size and polarization time . For details on polarization time measurements and the reconstruction see Figure 4 and the Supplementary information . 009 Which mutations caused the changes in growth rate and cell size ? We sequenced a total of 10 bem1∆ lines: the eight bem1∆ A-lines that arose from the same starting colony and remained haploid , as described above . In addition , we sequenced two bem1∆ lines that were evolved from two independent different starting colonies in a trial experiment   . This is in contrast to the mutations we found in the 10 bem1∆ lines . We found three genes that were mutated at least three times: BEM3  , NRP1  , and BEM2  . Mutations in these genes were not reported in a variety of other yeast evolution experiments  , suggesting that they are specific for the deletion of BEM1 . All other mutations can be found in Supplementary file 1 . Only one of these mutations , the mutation in IRA1 , in line T3 , is also commonly found in other yeast evolution experiments suggesting that it is not specific for the deletion of BEM1  . The A-lines shared the same early stop mutation in BEM3 , but lines T2 and T3 independently acquired different early stop mutations in BEM3 . The BEM3 mutation in the A-lines  was acquired after germination of the spore that acted as their ancestor: cells from the original colony  showed the same severe growth defects as freshly germinated bem1∆ spores , whereas engineered bem1∆ bem3∆ cells had a much less severe defect . All five mutations in NRP1  were independently acquired early stop mutations , whereas in BEM2 we found a promoter mutation  and two amino acid substitutions  , which are radical substitutions at conserved positions . Three mutations produce adaptation to deletion of BEM1 . Locations of the mutations in the three genes that were mutated at least three times . For bem1∆ line A1 and A2 the fraction of the mutant vs the wild-type allele in the population is plotted against the number of generations in the evolution experiment . We sporulated a diploid yeast strain  , to obtain all different combinations of mutations . Subsequently , we spotted those spores on plates  and measured for every genotype , the percentage of macroscopic colonies forming spores  as well as the average radius of those colonies  . The log phase growth rate in bulk  is measured for the reconstructed intermediates of bem1∆ cells in line A1 and A2  . The red line indicates the effect of the three adaptive mutations in a wild-type background . The outer-cube represents all BEM1 lines , which are in our evolutionary experiment inaccessible , because the BEM1 gene was completely removed from the genome , however , these data are included to reveal the relative change in BEM1 dependence in different genetic backgrounds . Image of a plate where we spotted individual spores from the heterozygous diploid . We measured the colony size from 810 spores deposited on 10 plates in a 9 × 9 grid using automated image analysis . Afterwards we determined the genotype of the spores by replica plating them to different selective media as shown in  , which allowed us to calculate the percentage of surviving colonies by diving the number of observed spores by the number of expected spores  . 011 Lines A1 and A2 acquired mutations in BEM2 , BEM3 , and NRP1 . Sanger sequencing of the three genes at different time points revealed that those mutations occurred sequentially in BEM3 , NRP1 , and BEM2 in both lines  . We investigated whether this order was coincidental or caused by epistasis , by investigating the phenotypes of mutations in these three genes , in different combinations , in a bem1∆ background . We approximated the mutations by gene deletions , assuming that the evolved mutations had eliminated  or diminished  gene function . We generated the different genotypes by sporulating a BEM1/bem1∆ BEM2/bem2∆ BEM3/bem3∆ NRP1/nrp1∆ diploid  . For each genotype , we measured the average colony size generated by germinating spores , the percentage of spores that produced visible colonies , and the growth rate in liquid media  . Figure 3C shows that bem1∆ spores are least likely to form colonies , while bem1∆ bem2∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ spores closely resemble wild-type spores , confirming that inactivating BEM2 , BEM3 , and NRP1 substantially suppresses the severe polarization defect of bem1∆ cells . We compared the growth rate of quadruply mutant bem1∆ bem2∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ cells with the final populations of line A1 and A2  . If mutations are added in the order they occurred in during the evolution , each successive mutation increases the fitness of the resulting strain , but adding mutations in different orders can reduce fitness . : adding the bem2∆ mutation increases the growth rate of bem1∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ cells , but the same mutation reduces or has no effect on the fitness of all other tested genotypes . Another example of epistasis is the changing dependence of the cells on BEM1: the polarization module evolves from requiring Bem1 , in wild-type strains , to being slightly impaired by the presence of functional Bem1 in a bem2∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ mutant  . Reconstruction allowed us to examine how different combinations of mutations alter the dynamics of the polarization module . Because there are large cytoplasmic pools of Cdc42 , which make it hard to monitor the location of membrane-associated , active Cdc42 , we examined polarization by imaging Spa2-Citrine , which localizes to the polarity site and the cytokinetic ring   . As expected , bem1∆ cells have a long delay before the first signs of polarization , and polarization is often abortive  , suggesting weaker activation of Cdc42 . In addition , bem1∆ cells often contain more than one polarity site , suggesting that the positive feedback that ensures a single site of polarization is weaker . Three adaptive mutations change polarization dynamics to re-establish efficient polarization . Z-projections of spinning disk fluorescence microscopy images of Spa2-Citrine , which marks the site of polarization as well as the cytokinetic ring , in yeast cells at different reconstructed stages of the evolution . Cartoon explaining our analysis of polarization dynamics . For the indicated number of mother cells  , we average  the time  between cytokinesis  and the moment that the first polarity spot appears  , indicated in red , and  the total time per cell cycle , after tfs , when cells contained zero , one , two , or three polarity spots  . 013Video 4 . Spinning disk confocal fluorescence microscopy video of Spa2-Citrine in wild-type cells . For every image , the cells were exposed for 200 ms with a 488 laser  . As cells divide , Spa2 concentrates at the bud neck and the single fluorescent focus splits into two with both mother and daughter cells inheriting localized Spa2 . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 014Video 5 . Cell polarization in bem1∆ cells . Conditions are identical to Video 4; however , the cells in the video are bem1∆ . Cells rarely show two simultaneous strong Spa2 spots . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 014 The nature of the mutated genes suggests how inactivating them improves the polarization of bem1∆ cells . BEM3 and BEM2 encode two of the four GAPs  in the polarity module that inactivate Cdc42  and other small G proteins by stimulating their intrinsic GTPase activity . Inactivating these genes should increase Cdc42 activity . As predicted , bem1∆ bem3∆ cells bud faster  , but the cells still often contain more than one polarity site , suggesting that increasing Cdc42 activity is not enough to re-establish precise positive feedback in the absence of Bem1 . 015Video 6 . Cell polarization in bem1∆ bem3∆ cells . Conditions are identical to Video 4; however , the cells in the video are bem1∆ bem3∆ double mutants . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . The most obvious change after NRP1 deletion is a decrease in time between cytokinesis and the appearance of the first polarity site  . Therefore , we speculate that NRP1 plays a role in initiating polarization , which is triggered when Cdc28 is activated by G1 cyclins . Cdc28 activation releases Cdc24 from the nucleus , activating Cdc42 . If the absence of Nrp1 leads , directly or indirectly , to the release of more Cdc24 , this would lead to faster activation of Cdc42 and earlier polarization . Finally , the loss of Bem2 reduces the time that the cells are not polarized , suggesting that this mutation also increases Cdc42 activity  . 016Video 7 . Cell polarization in bem1∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ cells . Conditions are identical to Video 4; however , the cells in the video are bem1∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ triple mutants . Competition between competing Spa2 spots is resolved more quickly than in bem1∆ bem3∆ cells . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 017Video 8 . Cell polarization in bem1∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ bem2∆ cells . Conditions are identical to Video 4; however , the cells in the video are bem1∆ bem2∆ bem3∆ nrp1∆ quadruple mutants . Although these cells bud at similar sizes and rates as BEM1 cells , some cells show prolonged presence of two or more Spa2 spots and mothers rarely produce their next bud close to the site of its predecessor . The video plays at 2520× real time and the time stamps show hh:mm . 017 Our data suggest that that multiple mutations can restore Cdc42 activity without restoring Bem1's ability to physically connect Cdc24 and Cdc42 . As a consequence , actin-based positive feedback , which only requires Bem1 to activate Cdc42 , will become critical because actin-independent polarization depends directly on Bem1 acting as a scaffold . We followed the evolutionary adaptation to the removal of an important component of the module that polarizes budding yeast cells . Cells recovered by following a reproducible evolutionary trajectory that could be largely explained by the interactions amongst the mutated genes and led to a substantial recovery in the speed and accuracy of cell polarization . How repeatable is evolution ? As long as modules contain components , like Bem2 and Bem3 , which alter the quantitative behavior of other proteins , like Cdc42 and other small GTPases , removing the regulators is the equivalent of rarer mutations that would change the biochemical parameters of central components of the pathway . In our work , the selected mutations do not alter the structure of an existing protein to allow it to play Bem1's role of physically linking Cdc42 to Cdc24 . Instead , other mutations that increase the half-life of Cdc42-GTP  remove the need to hold Cdc24 and Cdc42 close to each other . One objection to this hypothesis is that it would be very hard to fix a mutation as deleterious as bem1∆ . However , it will also reveal more about cell biology of polarization . BEM1 , BEM2 , and BEM3 as well as their genetic interactions have been measured and implicated in polarity establishment before  . However , the lack of information about NRP1 made it impossible to predict the positive effect of the BEM2 deletion on polarity establishment in the absence of BEM1 and BEM3 . Second , by biophysically investigating how cells recover from the deletion of BEM1 as well as other perturbations in the polarity pathway , we will be able to distill which parts of polarization mechanisms , rather than molecules , are essential for proper function . Standard rich media , YPD  was used for the evolution experiments . 101 , 102 , and 103 spores were plated on YPD plates  , to get an estimate of the total number of viable spores . To select for viable bem1∆ cells  , 103 , 104 , 105 , and 106 spores were also plated on 4xG418/10xCANAVINE/-HIS plates  , which we will refer to as the selection plates . The selection plate strongly selected for MATa-haploid spores  that lack BEM1: the absence of histidine selects for haploid MATa strains , because the MFA1 promoter is expressed only in a cells , the presence of canavanine is a second selection for haploids , since the CAN1 gene dominantly confers sensitivity to canavanine , an arginine analog , and G418 selects for bem1∆ because the gene deletion is marked with the bacterial kanamycin resistance gene . The colonies that grew on the selection plates were checked for the absence of BEM1 by PCR   . Typically , ∼20% of the colonies were indeed bem1∆ . The other cells were most likely haploid , MATa , cells , aneuploid for chromosome II and thus contained both BEM1 and the selection marker . Cells from a confirmed bem1∆ colony were used to start the evolution experiments . Germinating bem1∆ , as well as wild-type spores were imaged every 3 min for 20 hr in the same microscope but in a microfluidic chamber  to allow for constant media supply . Only mothers were analyzed to minimize the effect of cell size on the time between cytokinesis and bud formation . The evolution experiments were initiated with 10 bem1∆  and 10 wild-type cultures   . The 10 bem1∆ cultures were derived from the same starting colony , and the 10 wild-type colonies were derived from an individual colony from the yLL3a strain . Every independent 10 ml YPD culture was inoculated with 106 cells . 107 cell/ml , the cells were grown for another 24 hr , otherwise it was passaged as follows . Early in the evolution experiment 1 bem1∆ culture and three wild-type cultures were lost due to bacterial contamination . As a pilot experiment , two bem1∆ cultures  were evolved for 1000 generations according to the same protocol , with the exception that they were taken from independent colonies . The population growth rate was measured at different time points during the evolution experiments  . Approximately , 105 cells were taken from the frozen stock and inoculated in 2 ml of YPD . We used YPD from the same batch for the complete evolution experiment as well as for the analysis of the evolution experiment . In addition to the growth rate , the population cell size distribution was measured at different time points during the evolution  . If the cell density was >4 × 106 and <3 × 107 , a sample 50 µl of cells was diluted into 20 ml of Coulter Counter isotone solution . In line A2 , the dynamics of the mutant bem2 and mutant nrp1 allele are close in time . However , two observations strongly indicate that the bem2 mutation occurred after the nrp1 mutation:  there is a consistent difference at different time points between the fraction of nrp1 and bem2 mutant alleles and  the difference between the fraction of the population that contain the nrp1 and bem2 mutant alleles at the final time point is confirmed by whole genome sequencing . The phenotype was determined by replica plating colonies that grew from single spores to all the different plates necessary to detect the different markers  . Single spore colonies were generated by spotting individual spores with a FACS cell sorter  on YPD plates . 81 spores were spotted per plate on a total of 10 plates . After 2 days , the plates were imaged to measure the colony size . Calibration experiments showed that in this period the colony size is a good approximation for the growth rate of the cells in the colony . From this data , the average colony size per genotype and the standard deviation between the colony sizes was calculated . In addition , the percentage of surviving colonies was calculated by dividing the number of observed colonies by the number of expected colonies*100% . Comparing the wild-type data from assaying the behavior of the spores spotted on plates with results obtained from tetrad dissections of wild-type diploids , confirmed that the spore plotting assay did not introduce bias in the growth rates or fraction of surviving colonies . The percentage of surviving bem1∆ colonies was higher in this assay than in the original assay  , which we attribute to the presence of Spa2-Citrine: all the bem1∆ colonies that survived contained Spa2-Citrine , even though this allele was heterozygous in the diploid that they were derived from . The polarization dynamics of the reconstructed strains were measured by imaging Spa_Citrine , a polarity marker , present in the reconstructed strains  . For every mother cell between cytokinesis and bud take off , we manually determined , at each frame , how many Spa2 spots were present  . Only mothers were considered to minimize the effect of cell size on the data . From this data , the average total time per cell cycle that cells contain zero , one , two , or three polarity spots was calculated . 
BOLD signals in the rostral medial prefrontal cortex  encoded stimulus value only when acceptance or rejection was deferred into the future , suggesting a role in integrating value signals over time . By contrast , the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex  encoded stimulus value only when participants rejected  a prospect . dACC BOLD signals reflected two decision biases–to defer commitments to later , and to weight potential losses more heavily than gains–that  maximised reward in this task . These findings offer fresh insights into the pressures that shape economic decisions , and the computation of value in the medial prefrontal cortex . Other decisions reverse a previous commitment , for example when deciding to sell stock options or to end a failing relationship . In these types of decision , which we refer to as economic ‘commitments’ , prospects are irreversibly ‘ruled in’  or ‘ruled out’  of a portfolio of assets that yield sustained positive or negative return to the individual . Unlike the choices made in most current lab-based approaches , economic commitments are not independent: a decision made at a time t continues to contribute to economic return at a later time t + 1 , and may influence other choices made at that time . Commitments often follow a period of deliberation , during which items are considered but final acceptance or rejection is deferred to a later moment  . Moreover , it remains unknown how value encoding in the medial prefrontal cortex depends on whether decisions involve economic commitment or not . Here , thus , we investigated the neural mechanisms that accompany commitment  , and deferral  during economic choice , using a multi-alternative choice task in which decisions had financial ramifications that persisted over prolonged episodes , and could not be reversed . In half of the blocks , participants had to choose between accepting  and deferring acceptance of a prospect  . In the other half of the blocks , participants chose between rejecting  and deferring rejection  . Therefore , preference for a bandit would be implied by commitment in rule-in and deferral in rule-out . Our task , thus , allowed us to probe value encoding in the prefrontal cortex as a function of whether a stimulus was preferred  and whether commitment was made now or deferred until later . The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex  encoded value when a prospect was excluded  while the rmPFC encoded value only during deferral  . On each block , participants  viewed spirals of variable length associated with four options  . On each trial , each spiral of length si was drawn from a Gaussian distribution with mean vi that remained unchanged for that bandit during a block of 12 trials  . On each trial of a given block , a virtual pool of assets contained the preferred bandits thus far . Each bandit yielded a monetary payoff  determined by the rank of its mean vi relative to the mean of all four bandits in the block  . After viewing the spiral participants chose whether to commit to that bandit , or to defer . Critically , commitment engendered a sustained alteration in the per-trial economic yield , in a manner that varied according to rule type  . On rule-in blocks , participants began the block with an empty pool of assets and the per-trial momentary yield was determined by the average payoff of all bandits committed to  thus far  . On rule-out blocks , participants' asset pool initially included all four alternatives and the per-trial yield was the average of the payoff of all bandits not yet committed to  . The total yield at the end of a block was the sum of the per-trial yields  . Block timeline and task design . Upper right inset box: showing the mapping between mean spiral length and payoff  of the four bandits in the example blocks . Upper panel: example of a rule-in block . Following an instruction screen , on each trial  four bandits  were presented . A spiral in one box provided a noisy estimate of bandit mean length . Bandits that were accepted were made unavailable  for future choices  . Accepted bandits were brought irrevocably into a virtual ‘asset pool’  that began empty  . The per-trial yield , that is , the average of the payoffs of all bandits in the asset pool , was aggregated to provide the block-end yield . Bottom panel: same as upper , but for a rule-out block . All bandits began in the asset pool . Rejection eliminated one bandit from the pool  . Per-trial yield reflected the average payoff of bandits not yet eliminated from the asset pool . The bandits’ length distributions could vary across 2-variance level  . Payoff reflected the rank order of a bandit‘s mean spiral length within the block . The average mean length of the 4 bandits ranged from 2 . 003 Following commitment  a bandit was made unavailable for future decisions and on each subsequent trial offers were drawn randomly from the bandits still in play . Thus bandits could not be definitively accepted in rule-out blocks or definitively rejected in rule-in blocks , but commitment could be continually deferred until the end of the block . Each block used one of three context types that determined the average lengths of the presented spirals  , ensuring that participants had to learn afresh the relationship between mean spiral length and payoff in each block . This variable block-dependent mapping from spiral length to payoff  discouraged the use of fixed strategies  . Our first goal was to identify the quantity  on which participants based their economic commitments . Participants could optimize performance by averaging momentary samples si to estimate the underlying mean lengths vi and the corresponding payoffs  , trading off speed and accuracy  in making economic commitments . A robust approximation to this is to compare the current bandit to the mean of the other options  . We compared the ability of these current-minus-next and current-minus-average policies  to predict human commitment probability across the block under different rules and contexts  . When a decision criterion was fit to the current-minus-average quantity separately for rule-in and rule-out blocks  to produce discrete model choices , they bore a striking resemblance to human behaviour , capturing the proportion , the timing , and secondary aspects of commitments for all the various combinations of rule context-type  . Commitment probability in different contexts  as a function of mean bandit spiral length for rule-in  and rule-out blocks  and  probability of commitment as a function of trial number , context-type and rule . Mean number of commitments in rule-in and rule-out  , in the three different contexts . Moving from short to long contexts , commitments increased in rule-in ( F  = 6 . 01 ) and decreased in rule-out ( F  = 4 . The model predicts this pattern  by initializing the block reference to the mean spiral length in the experiment  , thus over  -estimating the DV at trial 1 in long  contexts . The sum of commitments exceeded the number of available bandits ( 4 . 005 ) , mainly due to more than one commitments made in rule-in . Fitted decision criteria  did not significantly differ from reward-maximizing criteria  under the current-minus-average model for rule-in  and rule-out  . Gray curves show the distributions of the estimated pay-off for each of the four bandits under different numbers of samples  . Values larger  than the rule-in criterion provoke inclusion by commitment  . Values smaller  than the rule-out criterion result in exclusion by commitment  . H and L stand for bandits with high and low absolute pay-off , respectively . We conceived of the task as a factorial design crossing rule type  , decision  and the parametrically varying  quantity DVcur − ave that indexes the estimated payoff of the available bandit under the current-minus-average policy implied by our behavioural modelling  . Overlapping activations in the parietal cortex elicited by the current bandit running average ( yellow; peak: 58 , −60 , 26; t  = 4 . Voxels responding to the interaction of rule and value on defer trials  and commit trials  . Value is encoded  only on defer trials . Mean parameter estimates , derived by regressing bandit value on the BOLD signal from within an independently-defined ROI in the rmPFC , separately for defer and commit decision under each rule . Parameter estimates from a regressor encoding the value of the asset pool  . We were thus surprised to find that no voxels in this region varied inversely with the three-way interaction between rule , decision and value  . Thus , we searched across the brain for voxels that correlated with value on defer and commit trials separately  . Whereas no voxels responded to the rule x value interaction on commit trials  , a prominent cluster in rmPFC was sensitive to the interaction of rule and value when participants made deferral choices ( Figure 3C , left panel; peak at −2 , 56 , 18; rule x value interaction on defer trials: t  = 5 . In this region , value encoding on defer trials differed from zero on rule-in ( t  = 5 . 0001 ) and rule-out ( t  = 3 . 002 ) blocks , but failed to diverge from zero when commitments were made for either rule-in  or rule-out  blocks  . A statistically indistinguishable pattern of activity was observed more ventrally in the medial orbitofrontal cortex  , a region that has been labeled arMFC or vmPFC ( rule x value interaction on defer trials: peak −2 , 52 , −10; t  = 4 . We calculated asset pool value in a trialwise fashion and included it as an additional predictor of the BOLD signal alongside the value , choice , rule and other nuisance factors such as the number of trials elapsed thus far in the block  . Next , we compared brain activity when decisions were made to commit or defer . Commitments in both rule-in and rule-out blocks  were associated with strong increases in the BOLD signal in a number of brain regions  , but most prominently in a dorsomedial prefrontal region encompassing the dACC  . Average BOLD signals differed between commit and defer decisions , with no difference according to rule type  and no interaction  . Imaging data: dACC . Voxels responding to commit > defer , rendered onto a sagittal slice of a template brain  . Average BOLD responses for defer  and commit  trials on rule-in  and rule-out  blocks . Voxels responding to the three-way interaction of rule , decision and value , in the ACC . Bar plots showing average parameter estimates for a regression of value on BOLD activity in regions of interest  in the ACC , separately for defer and commit decision under each rule . Response times  were overall slower during commitment and this difference was pronounced in rule-in trials . This pattern is comparable with ACC average bold for defer and commit  . 008 Secondly , only the dACC and interconnected bilateral anterior insular cortex  were responsive to the three-way interaction between rule type , decision and value , with a peak in activation at −6 , 32 , 34 ( t  = 5 . The dACC BOLD signal correlated positively with value when participants made commitments in rule-out blocks ( t  = 7 . 000001 ) or deferred in rule-in blocks ( t  = 4 . 0002 ) , but did not diverge from zero when participants committed in rule-in blocks  or deferred in rule-out blocks  . Note that the parameter estimates plotted in Figure 4D are correlations with bandit value , not raw BOLD amplitudes , and thus very unlikely to reflect cognitive demand or other nuisance factors that might conceivably vary across the block . Our task emphasises two key axes that characterise economic choices . Secondly , should I commit now or defer my choice to later ? Our behavioural findings indicate that humans made economic commitments when the current-minus-average DV exceeded  or failed to surpass  a relevant criterion  . Model-derived best-fitting commitment criteria for individual participants under the current-minus-average model are shown in Figure 2D , separately for rule-in blocks  and rule-out blocks  . These are superimposed upon the average estimate of the value distribution for each of the four bandits  as it evolved with increasing number of samples  . To understand the best policy for criterion setting , we varied the decision criterion gradually as a free parameter , and plotted the reward-maximising criterion value separately for rule-in  and rule-out blocks  . This was confirmed by statistical comparison of the human and reward-maximizing criteria ( rule-in: t  = −1 . 3; rule-out: t  = −0 . Firstly , criteria for both rule-in and rule-out blocks lie to the right of zero . This was confirmed by statistical analysis: human commitments were made more frequently ( total 2 . 0001 ) , and first commitment occurred earlier ( trial 3 . 001 ) in rule-out blocks  . This bias helps maximise rewards because in our task participants will ideally accept  only the single most valuable bandit . Secondly , the reward-maximising criteria are not perfectly aligned for rule-in and rule-out blocks . In combination with exclusion proneness , this occurs due to an overall bias to defer commitment and thereby promote exploration . This brings the criterion closer to zero in rule-out blocks  , and pushes it further from zero in rule-in blocks  . Indeed , participants deferred more frequently than they committed , with commitments occurring on 15% of trials on rule-in blocks and 22% of trials on rule-out blocks  . Response times were also prolonged on decisions to commit  , as if participants were overcoming a default tendency to defer ( F  = 77 . This effect was stronger in rule-in blocks , leading to a rule type  x decision  interaction on response times ( F  = 27 . 0001 ) with no main effect of rule type ( F  = 1 . However , in our task this policy is the one that maximises reward , with the criteria misalignment reflecting a deferral bias that promotes exploration before commitment . Here , we devised a task in which decisions involved commitment to an asset with enduring financial consequences . By contrast , the rmPFC encoded value differentially along the latter axis , covarying with value only when acceptance or rejection was deferred into the future , and not at the point of commitment . Modelling of behavioural performance suggested that economic commitments were made when the normalised bandit value fell above  or below  a fixed criterion . However , in our ecologically valid task , this misalignment of the criteria for acceptance and rejection is the policy that maximises reward . Intuitively , this asymmetry reflects a default bias towards deferring commitments , and the fact that this bias shifts the criterion in opposite directions in rule-in and rule-out . The dACC was sensitive to the main effect of commit vs defer , but dACC BOLD signals also correlated with value when participants rejected  a prospect . In other words , the dACC is a good candidate for encoding the two biases observed in behavioural data: an overall  proneness to defer , and a heightened gain of encoding value when participants dispreferred a prospect . BOLD signals may have been higher for commit than defer because participants had a higher threshold for commit decisions , leading to greater deliberation and more overall decision-related activity on these trials , consistent with prolonged reaction times observed for commit than defer decisions . In summary , asking participants to commit to economic alternatives revealed a striking dissociation between the dACC and rmPFC , two brain structures whose contribution to economic choice in the primate remains highly contentious  . However , past work has precluded the segregation of neural activity on trials where a commitment was made , relative to those where commitment was deferred into the future . Bandits were randomly assigned the following four payoffs  :£15/24 , £5/24 , −£5/25 , −£15/24 corresponding to the symbols H  , L  , −L , −H in the figures . Although payoffs were fixed , the mapping from payoff to the nominal mean spiral length changed block-by-block , so that bandit payoff was relative to the other spiral lengths observed in any given block . Each bandit’s spiral length was drawn from a normal distribution N  where vi was related ordinally to the payoff μi of the ith bandit , and σi stood for the standard deviation of the distribution . There were six possible mean spiral lengths , vi , in the experiment: 2 . Splitting these six means into contiguous groups of four resulted in three different context types , presented in pseudorandom order:  ‘short’ blocks comprised of bandits with mean lengths  of 2 . 0 ,  ‘medium’ blocks with bandits with spiral length means 3 . 5 , and  ‘long’ blocks with bandits with spiral length means 3 . Additionally , on each trial , two of the bandits had a standard deviation of 0 . Since the only determinant of a bandit’s payoff , μi , was the rank of its mean length within the block context , the bandit whose spirals had mean length vi = 4 . This approach precluded fixed strategies such as accepting or rejecting all bandits below or above a single spiral length . Trials occurred in 48 blocks distributed in four runs . The reward assignment of the task varied according to the rule type . On ‘rule-in’ blocks , a spiral was presented in one of the four bandits and participants chose whether to ‘accept’ that bandit , or ‘defer’ . The per-trial yield was equal to the average payoff of all the bandits ruled in up to that point: Yin=∑i ϵ IN  |IN| at trial t , with IN standing for the set of the bandits that had been ruled-in up to t We refer to the items thus far ruled-in as the asset pool . On ‘rule-out’ blocks , participants chose whether to ‘reject’ that bandit or to ‘defer’ , and their per-trial yield was equal to the average payoff of all bandits not yet ruled out at that point Yout=∑i ∉ OUT  4−|OUT| , with OUT being the set of bandits that had been ruled out up to that point . Items not yet ruled-out are contained in the virtual asset pool . For both rule-in and rule-out the block-end yield was the sum of the per-trial yields of all trials  , rounded to the nearest half or whole number: ∑t=1kYrule  . For example , in a rule-in block , if after t = 8 trials the participant had ruled in bandits with payoffs £5/24 and £−5/24 , the yield on that trial would be: Yin  =£  /2 . Similarly , in a rule-out block if at trial t = 8 participants had rule out bandits worth £−15/24 and £−5/24 the yield on that trial would be the average of the remaining bandits: Yout  =£  /2 . Payoffs were calibrated so that selecting no bandits , or selecting all the bandits , would bring per-trial payoff to zero . Rule-in and rule-out blocks were interleaved in pseudorandom order . On each experimental run  6 blocks of each rule type were presented . Each block began with a fixation cross presented for 2 s under the words ‘Rule In’ or ‘Rule Out’ that announced the rule type of the block . Immediately after , four coloured boxes , one for each bandit , were presented in the four quadrants of the screen against dark grey background . The initial color of all bandits was either blue or pink , indicating the rule type of the block  . Bandits that had not yet ruled in or out , and were thus available for future decisions , were set active and kept their initial color . On each trial , a spiral of variable length appeared randomly at the centre of one of the active boxes  . Participants had a maximum of 2 s to either commit  to the bandit under offer or to defer . Committing to a bandit altered its status to inactive and resulted in the corresponding box being colored gray until the end of the block . In both rule-in and rule-out blocks , participants indicated their choice with a key press  or button press  . Spirals disappeared from the screen immediately after participants pressed a button . Failure to respond within the deadline  resulted in forced commit or defer choices made automatically and randomly . A block ended either when there were no more active bandits left or after 12 trials . At the end of the block the four bandits  remained gray between 3 and 5 s  . Inside the box , corresponding to each bandit , the mean spiral length was shown together with the time that had elapsed  before participants had made a committing decision . Centrally on the screen , the block-end monetary yield was shown  . After an inter-block interval of between 2 and 4 s  the new block began . Every 12 blocks  participants viewed a ‘wheel of fortune’ consisting of 12 segments  coloured proportionally to each block-end yield  . On average , participants won £3 . 0 per block  . There was no significant difference between the rewards in the rule-in and rule-out trials ( t  = 0 . These variables varied across two features:  integration or computation of the absolute value of a bandit through averaging the spiral lengths presented thus far for that bandit and  anchoring of the absolute value  for each bandit to a reference value that represents the value of the other bandits in the block . Absence of integration means considering the momentary length presented at a bandit while ignoring all previous spirals encountered before at the same bandit . Anchoring could be omitted  or manifest itself by means of subtracting an implicit reference value from the absolute value of a given bandit . The reference value  changes trial-by-trial as new information is presented . Thus , at trial t , r  could be the absolute value  of the temporally previous bandit , the absolute value of the next-best bandit , or the average of the absolute values of all bandits in the block . We define with Sit the set of trials , up to trial t , in which spirals were presented at bandit i . The average value estimate for bandit i at trial t is vi¯  =1|Sit|∑jϵSitsi  , with si  being the spiral length in trials  where value information was presented for bandit i . In Table 1 , we refer with Spres to the set of bandits for which value information was presented at least once in the block . Separate regressions were performed for rule-in and rule-out trials:Pin  =Φ  Pout  =Φ  where Φ is the cumulative normal function . These logistic fits assume that commitments are made once the DV exceeds a criterion threshold  . In order to generate discrete choices for the exact same sequences that participants saw in the experiment , the best-fitting DVcur − ave was used to fit the probabilities of commiting in 24 conditions: four bandits’ rank-ordered lengths  × 3 context types  × 2 rule types  . The only free parameters were the decision criterion in rule-in and rule-out . First , participants in the practice session made committing choices by pressing the ‘m’ button on a standard PC keyboard and made defer choices by pressing the ‘k’ button , as opposed to using the a MRI-safe response pad in the scanning session  . Dependent variables in different analyses involved the probability of committing  , the trial number of the first commitment , and the per-block total number of committing decisions , for different bandit means and across different rules  and context types  . All statistical analysis of imaging data included , in addition to regressors of interest , nuisance parameters encoding  the fixation screen that signaled block onset ,  the reward screen that indicated monetary earnings ,  an instruction screen stating rule type , and  a regressor encoding the ‘grey’ period at the end of any blocks in which all bandits had been ruled in or out or the maximum number of trials had been reached , as well as six regressors coding movement parameters estimated from the realignment stage of preprocessing . We conceived of our experiments as a factorial design crossing factors  rule  ,  decision  and  value  as a parametric regressor encoding the value estimate of a bandit under offer . These regressors , plus their interactions  were entered into the design matrix alongside additional regressors encoding  the reference value for that block  ,  the trial number  , that is , the time elapsed since the start of the block , and  estimated aggregated yield , that is , the estimate of the most likely cumulative payoff for that trial , given the history of bandits and decisions . This was calculated by accumulating estimated per trial yield of the bandits included in the assets pool  . In a subsequent analysis  , we additionally extracted the BOLD timeseries from the peak group response to rule x decision x value in the dACC  and included it  as an additional regressor . 
Paraspeckles are nuclear bodies form around the long non-coding RNA , Neat1 , and RNA-binding proteins . In this study , we found that , in pituitary cells , all components of paraspeckles including four major proteins and Neat1 displayed a circadian expression pattern . Furthermore the insertion of IRAlu at the 3’-UTR of the EGFP cDNA led to a rhythmic circadian nuclear retention of the egfp mRNA that was lost when paraspeckles were disrupted whereas insertion of a single antisense Alu had only a weak effect . Using real-time video-microscopy , these IRAlu were further shown to drive a circadian expression of EGFP protein . This study shows that paraspeckles , thanks to their circadian expression , control circadian gene expression at a post-transcriptional level . Circadian rhythms are underpinned by daily rhythms of gene expression . The circadian variation in abundance of the positive  and the negative  components of these loops drive the circadian transcription of both direct targets genome-wide and a cascade of circadian output transcription factors , which together mediate the circadian transcriptional profile of a cell type or tissue  . While in eukaryotes , approximately 1%-10% genes are subjected to circadian control directly or indirectly only ~1/5 of the mRNAs that display rhythmic expression are directly driven by transcription , which suggests that post-transcriptional mechanisms including RNA splicing , polyadenylation , mRNA stability , mRNA cytoplasmic export and RNAs nuclear retention are essential layers for generation of gene expression rhythmicity  . Paraspeckles are recently identified nuclear bodies that have been shown to retain RNAs in the nucleus . One long noncoding RNA , nuclear-enriched abundant transcript one  , exclusively localized to paraspeckles serves as a structural component  . Because specific depletion of Neat1-2 leads to disruption of paraspeckles  Neat1-1 alone cannot induce paraspeckle formation . Paraspeckles have been shown to retain in the nucleus RNAs containing duplex structures  . It has been reported previously that mRNAs containing IRAlus in their 3’-UTRs like Nicolin 1  or Lin 28 are retained in the nucleus in paraspeckles  . We recently reported that two protein components of paraspeckles , namely NONO and SFPQ , display a circadian expression pattern in primary cultures of pituitary cells as well as in a rat pituitary cell line , the GH4C1 cells  . We used this cell line to determine whether one of the posttranscriptional mechanisms allowing circadian gene expression in pituitary cells could involve the circadian nuclear mRNA retention by paraspeckle bodies . To this end , we first characterized the presence of paraspeckles and we showed that these nuclear bodies were rhythmically expressed in the rat GH4C1 pituitary cell line . We then made a series of EGFP-fused IRAlu or Alu constructs and transfected them into GH4C1 cells to investigate the EGFP expression and the fates of the egfp-IRAlu or egfp-Alu RNA . We showed that an IRAlu element in the 3’-UTR of the egfp mRNA strongly repressed EGFP expression . Further , this reduction was accompanied by significant nuclear retention of the mRNAs , likely by paraspeckle bodies . We showed also that insertion of IRAlus in the 3’-UTR of EGFP reporter gene allowed rhythmic nuclear egfp-IRAlu RNA retention and rhythmic EGFP protein expression . Finally , this rhythmic nuclear egfp-IRAlu RNA retention as well as the rhythmic nuclear retention of some known cycling transcripts that were shown here associated with paraspeckles was lost when paraspeckles were disrupted . Paraspeckles are found in almost all of the cultured cell lines and primary cultures from tissues  , except for embryonic stem cells  . With a confocal fluorescent study , we report in a rat pituitary cell line that all four paraspeckle protein components are distributed both in the nucleoplasm and in subnuclear foci . Among these later , we identify paraspeckle nuclear bodies by overlapping side-by-side the staining of two paraspeckle protein components . This allows not only to provide evidence for the existence of paraspeckles in rat pituitary cell nuclei but also to show that as already reported in other cell types , paraspeckles are small , irregularly sized and unevenly distributed subnuclear bodies . Using RIP experiments , we further show that all four paraspeckle protein components are associated with the specific paraspeckle localized lncRNA Neat1 . This later is further detected by RNA FISH . Confirming previous reports in other cell types , when identified by a combination of Neat1 RNA FISH and confocal microscopy , paraspeckles appear as round foci in rat pituitary cells . However after use of a combination of Neat1 RNA FISH and STORM analysis , paraspeckles appear more likely as oblong structures with smaller dimensions reminiscent of the interchromatin granule-associated zone  that had been observed under electron microscope and had been reported to correspond to paraspeckles  . Width and height measurements obtained after STORM analysis of Neat1 RNA FISH staining are smaller than the dimensions of IGAZ nuclear bodies established by an electron microscopy analysis in human and mouse cells  suggesting that either IGAZ/paraspeckle nuclear bodies are smaller in rat than in mouse cells or alternatively and more likely , Neat1 RNA staining does not fill in all the nuclear bodies as already proposed  . In a previous study , we reported that two paraspeckle proteins , namely NONO and SFPQ , display a circadian expression pattern in rat pituitary cells  and we find here that it is also the case for the two other 'classical' paraspeckle proteins , PSPC1 and RBM14 . Furthermore , all four proteins bind rhythmically to Neat1 , suggesting that the pools of proteins involved in paraspeckle composition vary with time . In addition , the lncRNA Neat1 itself displays a circadian expression pattern and we further found using a pair of primers allowing the specific detection of the long form of Neat1 RNA , Neat1-2  that the expression of this form known to be sufficient for the formation of paraspeckle displays a circadian pattern  . The circadian expression pattern of Neat1 RNA is not the privilege of 'in vitro' pituitary cells since it is also found 'ex vivo' in several mouse tissues including the pituitary gland but also numerous other peripheral oscillators such as the spleen or the adrenal gland . Finally , in GH4C1 cells , the circadian variations in Neat1 RNA levels are shown here to reflect rhythmic variations in paraspeckle number within the cells . It may then be assumed that the circadian expression pattern of Neat1 RNA described here in a number of mouse tissue also reflects variations in paraspeckle number although it cannot be excluded that paraspeckle size could also oscillate over the circadian period both in pituitary cells and in other oscillators . As previously reported by Chen and Carmichael  , we found that a pair of IRAlus in the 3’-UTR of egfp can strongly silence EGFP expression in GH4C1 pituitary cell line and after fractionating cytoplasmic and nuclear RNAs from our two cell lines , we observed that IRAlus-containing egfp mRNA appear to be preferentially retained in the nucleus in comparison with those having a single Alu element . It then appeared that silencing EGFP expression mechanism relied on egfp mRNA nuclear retention . To obtain evidence that nuclear retained IRAlus are associated with paraspeckle bodies , we immunoprecipitated RNA complexes containing paraspeckle protein PSPC1 and characterized the associated egfp mRNA . We found IRAlu-containing egfp mRNA to be associated with PSPC1 whereas Alu-containing egfp mRNA was not . While PSPC1 as well as NONO and SFPQ accumulate in paraspeckles , these proteins are also found elsewhere throughout the nucleoplasm and thus may have functions apart from paraspeckle retention . In contrast to paraspeckle-associated proteins that are multifunctional , NEAT1 may have only one function . We then developed a technique to characterize nuclear mRNA Neat1 targets using a Neat1 RNA pull-down approach that allowed us to show the association of IRAlu egfp mRNA with Neat1 providing a much more convincing evidence for a nuclear retention of IRAlu egfp mRNA by paraspeckles . Given their presumed functions in gene expression through corresponding mRNA nuclear retention and since they display a circadian expression pattern , it may be assumed that paraspeckle bodies can rhythmically retain RNAs in the nucleus leading to a rhythmic expression of the corresponding gene . In keeping with this view , we showed that IRAlu elements inserted in 3’-UTR of egfp reporter mRNA allow for its circadian retention within the nucleus and consequently for EGFP protein circadian expression . However , it may be noticed that egfp mRNA displayed also a circadian nuclear retention when a single antisens Alu element was inserted in its 3’-UTR but in this case the variations of the ratio over the circadian period was highly reduced in contrast to the high amplitude circadian variations of the nuclear versus cytoplasmic ratio observed in IRAlu-egfp cell line . These small amplitude variations of the ratio between nuclear and cytoplasmic mRNA contents in Alu-egfp cell line were further accompanied by a weak number of cells expressing a circadian pattern of EGFP expression . Since antisens Alu elements within the 3’-UTR of mRNAs can be the target of several RNA-binding proteins  it may be speculated that some of these RNA-binding proteins display a rhythmic expression pattern accounting for the weak EGFP circadian expression observed in Alu-egfp cell line . Among the identified RNA-binding proteins that target antisens Alu elements within the 3’-UTR of mRNAs , HNRNPC was shown to display a circadian expression pattern in several tissues including the mouse pituitary  . This is not the case for HNRNPU and STAUFEN 1  -mediated messenger RNA decay we did not find to display a circadian expression pattern in GH4C1 cells  and  and are then unlikely involved in circadian EGFP expression in Alu-egfp cell line . The mechanism involved in the circadian nuclear retention of Alu-containing egfp mRNA remains anyway to be determined . Nuclear retention of egfp mRNA in IRAlu-egfp cells is no more cycling when paraspeckles were disrupted assuming that the nuclear retention of the reporter gene by paraspeckles contributes to cycling . To determine whether this paraspeckle impact on rhythmic gene expression occurs 'in vivo' on a much larger scale , we characterized in our pituitary cells the list of the putative Neat1 RNA target genes and we analyzed in publicly available datasets the known cycling transcripts that are included in this Neat1 RNA target list . Whereas it is well known that rhythmic circadian genes are tissue specific and that it is unfavorable to compare datasets obtained in two different species we found a robust overlap of our gene list with circadian genes in the mouse pituitary  and a closer overlap with post-transcriptional circadian genes in the mouse liver  . Furthermore , on a few circadian genes common to either of these lists or both , we showed a loss of rhythmic pattern when paraspeckles were disrupted assuming that paraspeckle retention plays a relevant role in circadian gene expression . In agreement with this view , the new mechanism described here suggests that circadian mRNA oscillations could be post-transcriptionally controlled through rhythmic nuclear retention by paraspeckle nuclear bodies . Predesigned siRNAs targeting rat Neat1 were purchased from GeneCust  . IRAlu-egfp cells plated in 6-well dishes were transfected with 500 pmol of a pool of four siRNA  using Lipofectamine 2000  . Two Neat1 ASO were pooled that were targeted to regions common to NEAT1_1 and NEAT1_2 isoforms  . IRAlu-egfp cells plated in 6-well dishes were transfected with 300 pmol of the pool of the two ASO  using Lipofectamine 2000  . Cells were harvested 48 hr after transfection . Nuclear , cytoplasmic or total RNA was prepared from GH4C1 cells using an RNA XS kit  . Total RNA purification was performed on 24-well cell dishes . Nuclear and cytoplasmic RNA isolation was performed using 10 cm cell dishes that were rinsed twice with ice-cold PBS , incubated in 1 ml of ice-cold cell lysis buffer A  . One-sixth of the supernatant was used to prepare cytoplasmic RNA . Total RNA  was then used for cDNA synthesis performed with a High Capacity RNA to cDNA kit  . RNA eluted from beads was purified using Nucleospin RNA XS  and processed for cDNA synthesis using a High Capacity RNA to cDNA kit  . Neat1 RNA pull-down is a hybridization-based strategy that uses complementary oligonucleotides to purify Neat1 RNA together with its targets from reversibly cross-linked extracts . To design oligonucleotides that target these regions and then can hybridize specifically to Neat1 RNA , we modeled the secondary structure of Neat1 RNA using bioinformatics  . Two antisense DNA oligonucleotide probes that target accessible regions of the lncRNA Neat1were designed and used for Neat1 RNA specific pull-down  . One biotynylated irrelevant probe was used for Neat1 RNA non-specific pull-down . RNA was in the size range of 400 to 2000 nucleotides . Eluted RNA was subject to RNA-sequencing or RT–qPCR for the detection of enriched transcripts . In order to assess the specificity of the NEAT1 RNA pull-down we crossed the results obtain with the two oligonucleotides  to generate the list of transcripts associated to the paraspeckles . All the RNA sequencing data are available at Gene Expression Omnibus   . To detect Neat1 RNA , GH4C1 cells grown on glass coverslips coated with poly-ornithine were fixed in 3 . Probes used are Neat1 probes labeled with Quasar 570 Dye or Neat1 probes labeled with Quasar 670 for STORM analysis . For real-time monitoring of intracellular fluorescence circadian oscillations , 4 × 104 Alu-egfp or IRAlu-egfp GH4C1 cells were seeded on glass-bottom 24 well plates  . After processing of the cells for FISH of Neat1 RNA , quantification of paraspeckle bodies was performed on confocal images using a 40X objective . 
We show that Munc13 , an active-zone protein essential for exocytosis , also controls presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channel  function dictating their behavior during various forms of activity . We demonstrate that in vitro Munc13 interacts with voltage-VGCCs via a pair of basic residues in Munc13's C2B domain . We show that elimination of this interaction by either removal of Munc13 or replacement of Munc13 with a Munc13 C2B mutant alters synaptic VGCC's response to and recovery from high-frequency action potential bursts and alters calcium influx from single action potential stimuli . These studies illustrate a novel form of synaptic modulation and show that Munc13 is poised to profoundly impact information transfer at nerve terminals by controlling both vesicle priming and the trigger for exocytosis . The active-zone protein , Munc13 , plays a central and essential role in all known forms of chemical synaptic transmission  . Munc13 is critical for correct assembly of exocytic proteins in preparation for neurotransmitter release that it executes at least in part through interactions with plasma membrane SNARE protein , syntaxin  . Munc13 , additionally , contains three C2 domains that can mediate interactions with lipid membranes . The importance of Munc13 in synapse function was established in genetic ablation experiments in mice , flies , and worms , but the roles of numerous putative interactions of Munc13 with potential binding partners remain an area of intense interest . Additionally , different variants of Munc13 have been shown to differentially impact exocytosis depending on the distance between release sites and VGCCs  . Here , we provide compelling evidence that Munc13 interacts with VGCCs in a way that controls calcium channel use-dependence on millisecond to second time scales at nerve terminals . We pinpointed a critical interaction site to 2 basic residues within the C2B domain of Munc13 on a face that is orthogonal to the potential membrane-interacting loops of this domain . Loss of Munc13 at hippocampal nerve terminals profoundly alters the response of VGCCs during brief AP bursts of very high-frequency firing . Although re-expression of Munc13-harboring point mutations that prevent interaction with VGCCs in Munc13-KD synapses restores exocytosis , it does not rescue the alterations in VGCC function . As a result , synapses expressing this mutant Munc13 have profound changes in ultra-fast plasticity of the exocytic response as well . Thus , in addition to its central importance in controlling SNARE assembly Munc13 also tunes temporal aspects of VGCCs and in turn influences ultra-fast plasticity at nerve terminals . Munc13 isoforms contain numerous protein–protein and protein–ligand interaction domains . Since Munc13 is known to be targeted to regions of the presynaptic membrane rich in VGCCs  , we wondered if Munc13 might also interact with VGCCs via this conserved C2B domain . We carried out in vitro co-precipitation assays using glutathione S-transferase  Munc13-1 C2B domain fusions and epitope-tagged derivative of the synprint region of CaV2 . We showed that the C2B domain of Munc13 , like that in synaptotagmin and RIM , also interacts with the synprint region of CaV2 . 2 in a Ca2+-independent manner  . Munc13 isoforms carry a short polybasic sequence in their C2B domain similar to the synprint interaction motif on synaptotagmin that is orthogonal to the lipid-interaction face of the protein  . Mutating this polybasic sequence  disrupted the in vitro interaction between Munc13-1 and the synprint region of CaV2 . Previous reports of C2B-synprint interactions have not included functional assays of the effect of the interaction on presynaptic Ca2+ influx . We therefore took advantage of the ability to monitor Ca2+ influx at active zones under conditions that perturb the potential Munc13-VGCC interaction . Munc13 C2B domain interacts with CaV2 . 2 synprint . Alignment of C2 domains from RIM1 , synaptotagmin-1 , Munc13 isoforms 1 , 2 , and 3 , and Munc13-KR/AA showing the synprint binding polybasic sequence  , Ca2+-interacting residues  , and the two mutated residues in Munc13-KR/AA to prevent synprint binding  . 2 Synprint region by Glutathione–sepharose bound GST or GST-Munc13-1-C2B fusions in the presence of 1 mM EDTA or 1 mM Ca2+ . for the presence of Ca2+ or genotype–Ca2+ interaction . Cartoon illustrating the relative position and orientation of the synprint binding site and the residues mutated in Munc13-KR/AA with respect to the plasma membrane and Ca2+ binding site . To test for the possible significance of the Munc13–VGCC interaction , we therefore examined the impact of removing Munc13 on action potential-driven calcium influx in nerve terminals . We recently showed that expression of an shRNA targeting the major cortical isoforms Munc13-1 and Munc13-2  led to a 94% or greater depletion of this protein at nerve terminals that results in complete block of exocytosis  . As expected single AP responses probed using vG-pHluorin are eliminated in Munc13-KD neurons  . We previously developed a robust approach for examining AP-driven presynaptic Ca2+ influx using AM-ester loaded Fluo5F at presynaptic boutons  identified using a fluorescent-protein-tagged presynaptic protein  . We found that Munc13-KD resulted in a 34% reduction in Ca2+ influx following a single action potential as compared to wild-type  cells  . This effect was fully reversed by rescuing the knockdown with an shRNA-insensitive variant of Munc13-1  . There are several mechanisms by which Munc13 could modify Ca2+ influx: loss of Munc13 could change the number of VGCCs on the presynaptic membrane; it could alter the presynaptic waveform , which controls the fraction of VGCCs that open and the temporal envelope of the driving force for Ca2+ entry , or it could alter the gating properties of VGCCs themselves . To investigate possible changes to the AP waveform , we used the genetically encoded voltage-sensitive probe archaerhodopsin fused to green fluorescent protein   expressed either in WT or Munc13-KD neurons to visualize possible changes in the action potential at presynaptic terminals  . We found that Munc13-KD did not significantly impact the height or full-width at half-maximum  of the AP compared to WT  . Based on these data , we concluded that the reduction in Ca2+ influx was not the result of changes to the AP waveform . 1 antibody directed to an intracellular domain of this protein  showed that the total synaptic abundance of this Ca2+ channel isoform was not altered by Munc13-KD  . Thus , the decrease in single AP presynaptic Ca2+-influx in the absence of Munc13 could arise from changes in surface abundance of VGCCs or changes in gating properties . To look for possible changes in gating properties , we examined how loss of Munc13 impacted functional plasticity of AP-driven presynaptic Ca2+ influx on time scales that would be too fast  to involve membrane trafficking events to and from the cell surface . Munc13-KD reduces Ca2+ influx at the presynaptic terminal . Average single AP vG-pHluorin response in wild-type   and Munc13-KD  neurons . Example traces of Ca2+ influx detected by Fluo5F fluorescence in response to a single AP in WT  and Munc13-KD  neurons . Averages of peak Fluo5F Ca2+ measurements ±SEM . Averages of FWHM from ARCH AP measurements for WT and Munc13 KD normalized to WT . Example image of VAMP2-mCherry + Munc13-KD synaptic terminals  labeled with Alexa488 anti-CaV2 . 1 staining intensities at VAMP-mCherry-positive Munc13-KD boutons  compared to Cav2 . 1 puncta in non-transfected neurons in the same field of view  showed that ablation of Munc13 does not alter the abundance of Cav2 . 004 To investigate an underlying mechanism of Munc13's control of Ca2+ influx in presynaptic boutons that would be separate from changes in VGCC surface abundance , we first examined how the absence of Munc13 might influence the ability of VGCCs to recover from bursts of activity . Changes in Ca2+ influx after the burst would be consistent with alteration in VGCC kinetics of inactivation and/or recovery from protracted stimuli . To examine this issue , we compared single AP Ca2+ influx before and after a 0 . In WT synapses this level of activity did not impact single AP responses measured 0 . In contrast in the absence of Munc13 , the single AP response 0 . There are two possible explanations for this reduction:  in the absence of Munc13 there is increased VGCC inactivation following the 100 Hz stimulus and  in the absence of Munc13 VGCCs inactivate to the same extent as in WT but recover more slowly . Munc13-KD prolongs VGCC inactivation on long-time scales . Example of Ca2+ reactivation assay for WT and Munc13-KD neurons showing the difference in single AP responses before and after a 100 Hz 50 AP train showing that WT but not Munc13-KD cells have fully recovered from inactivation 500 ms after the end of the train . Average inactivation of Ca2+ influx for WT and Munc13-KD neurons from the reactivation assay shown in A . 006WTSEMNMunc13 KDSEMNMunc13 KD + Munc13-1SEMNMunc13 KD + Munc13 KR/AASEMN1 AP Fluo5FΔF/F00 . 027112 AP FLuo5F  ΔF/F00 . 04410AP Post 50 AP TrainΔF/F00 . 03271 AP vGlut-pHluorinΔF/NH4Cl0 . 000572 AP vGLut-pHluorin  ΔF/NH4Cl0 . Since presynaptic Ca2+ clearance subsequent to AP stimulation occurs over a >100 ms time scale , and as single AP signals are well below the saturation threshold for Fluo5F , the Ca2+ influx for an inter-stimulus interval  of 2 ms should reflect the sum of the Ca2+ influx from each stimulus . These experiments showed that in WT synapses the summed response for double AP stimulation was only slightly higher than that obtained with a single AP  indicating a 90% reduction in Ca2+ influx on the second AP with a 2 ms ISI  . Those studies independently proposed various hypotheses for the mechanism of this depression including exocytosis-driven inhibition , failure of AP propagation , and inactivation of VGCCs . All three of these possible mechanisms would be potentially consistent with our observations of depression of Ca2+ influx for short ISIs . We reasoned that if exocytosis at the active zone leads to a brief refractory period in VGCC function then conditions that eliminate exocytosis should remove the depression in Ca2+ influx . We tested this idea in a manner that is independent of Munc13 by expressing the proteolytic light-chain of tetanus toxin  in hippocampal neurons and carried out measurements of AP-driven influx for single and AP pairs at 2 ms ISI . Simply eliminating exocytosis , however , did not change the reactivation behavior of presynaptic VGCCs  probed with 2 AP stimulation with a 2 ms ISI , which were indistinguishable from that observed in WT synapses . Thus , the observed fast paired-pulse depression in presynaptic Ca2+ influx is not exocytosis driven . In order to determine if the loss of Ca2+ influx could result from AP failure , we used Arch-GFP to examine the presynaptic AP waveform for single and AP pairs at 2 ms ISI  measured at individual boutons . In contrast at 37°C , similar measurements revealed that the amplitude of the second AP is similar to the first at these short ISIs in both WT and Munc13-KD  in all cells examined   . The width of the second AP was also similar for both wild type  and Munc13-KD  . Therefore , under these conditions both APs successfully propagate to presynaptic boutons and should be equally capable of fully driving VGCCs to the open state in both WT and Munc13-KD boutons . Thus , at physiological temperature , AP failure is not the mechanism of fast synaptic depression of Ca2+ influx  . Munc13-KD increases VGCC reactivation on a very short time scale . Example traces of Ca2+ responses to one AP  and two APs separated by 2 ms for wild-type  boutons  , TeNT-LC expressing boutons  , Munc13-KD boutons  , and WT soma  . Average membrane AP waveform measured using ARCH at WT boutons for single and double AP  at 30°C  and 37°C  indicating AP failure for the second AP at the lower temperature but successful firing and propagation of both APs at physiological temperature . Arch recordings from Munc13-KD boutons also show successful firing of the second AP . ARCH amplitude ratios of second AP peak with respect to first AP peak for WT at 30°C  , WT at 37°C  and Munc13-KD at 37°C  . Open symbols show the mean ± SEM value for N = 4 , WT 30°C; N = 7 , WT 37°C , N = 7 Munc13 KD 37°C . Average Ca2+ signal peak height in 2 ms paired pulses ISI normalized to the respective Ca2+ signal peak in response to 1AP . Average Ca2+ signal peak calculated for the second AP during paired pulses of various ISI for WT  and Munc13-KD  cells normalized to Ca2+ signal peak in response to 1 AP . 007 Remarkably , we found that VGCCs behave drastically differently for these fast-time scale paired-pulse stimuli in the absence of Munc13 . Munc13-KD nerve terminals displayed much greater Ca2+ influx for the second AP relative to the first compared to WT . Following Munc13-KD , the second AP response was 68% of the single AP response  in stark contrast to cells expressing Munc13 where the second AP response was a mere 10% of the single AP response  . These data imply that Munc13 strongly impacts the millisecond time scale dynamics of VGCCs and , in particular , alters the likelihood of either persisting in or entering a refractory state following an AP . Based on this logic , we predicted that due to the low concentration of Munc13 outside of presynaptic boutons , Ca2+ influx in other regions of the cell would resemble that in Munc13-KD boutons . Indeed , Ca2+ influx recorded at the soma in response to 2 ms spaced pairs of stimuli in WT cells had almost identical properties to presynaptic responses in Munc13-KD cells for Figure 4F , G . Our data are thus consistent with the idea that Munc13 actively modulates VGCC properties in the active zone . We further examined the persistence of this refractory state of VGCCs by examining paired-pulse Ca2+ influx over a series of ISIs in both WT and Munc13-KD neurons  . In contrast , in synapses that lack Munc13 , reactivation was much more efficient over the entire 2–40 ms regime  and was similar to WT values for times >40 ms . Because knockdown of Munc13-1/2 results in a reduction in single AP Ca2+ influx in addition to a reduction in failure to reactivate , a plausible explanation is that fast reactivation is a Ca2+-dependent process modulated by Ca2+ influx from the first AP . For example , VGCCs are known to undergo Ca2+-dependent inactivation  . To investigate if the increased response of the second AP during 2 ms ISI stimulation in Munc13-KD synapses was related to the reduced influx on the first AP , we examined how the failure of VGCCs to reactivate for ISI of 2 ms depended on the magnitude of Ca2+ influx during the first AP by varying external Ca2+ . We measured Ca2+ influx in WT synapses for single and pairs of AP stimuli at 2 ms ISI using lower external Ca2+  , which reduced Ca2+ influx to levels seen in Munc13-KD neurons  , and compared the results to those obtained in 2 mM external Ca2+ . Our data showed that the failure of VGCC reactivation for short ISI was insensitive to external Ca2+ manipulations  and not dependent on the magnitude of the influx of the first AP  . Similarly , the absence of depression in Ca2+ influx for the second AP stimulus observed in Munc13-KD synapses was independent of external Ca2+ concentration and the amount of influx during the first AP  . Thus , the refractory period we observe for reactivation of VGCCs following an initial AP is not impacted by changing the magnitude of Ca2+ influx in both WT and Munc13-KD neurons . The combination of a slower recovery from inactivation in Munc13-KD neurons , a reduced single AP Ca2+ influx and increased reactivation on very fast time scales is consistent with a model whereby the interaction of Munc13 with VGCCs changes the energy barriers between different VGCC states , altering the rates of transitions between these states . Millisecond refractory period controlled by Munc13 is insensitive to extracellular Ca2+ . Example traces of wild-type  neurons stimulated with 1 AP and 2 AP with a 2 ms ISI at 2 . 6 mM extracellular Ca2+ . Values are normalized to 1 AP for the three extracellular Ca2+ conditions . Relative Ca2+ influx in response to 1 AP upon reduced extracellular Ca2+ as a fraction of influx in 2 mM Ca2+ . 2 ms ISI Ca2+ influx normalized to 1 AP for the three extracellular Ca2+ conditions . 008 To test the significance of the observed in vitro interaction between Munc13 and the synprint region of CaV2 . 2 , we expressed shRNA-resistant derivatives of both Munc13-1 and the mutant lacking synprint binding capacity , Munc13-KR/AA , in a Munc13-KD nerve terminals . Re-expression of Munc13-1 in Munc13-KD neurons resulted in complete restoration of Ca2+ influx from single APs  . This observation suggests that the effects seen with Munc13-KD are specific to the depletion of Munc13 expression levels as opposed to off target effects . Conversely , in Munc13-KD cells expressing Munc13-KR/AA , Ca2+ influx from single APs remained similar to Munc13-KD  although exocytosis was largely restored  . This result suggests that , indeed , the synprint binding motif in the C2B domain of Munc13 is specifically responsible for the functional effects of Munc13-KD on VGCCs . Similarly , expression of WT Munc13-1 in the KD restored VGCC refractory period observed during 2 ms ISI paired pulses and eliminated the residual inactivation following 50 AP trains whereas expression of Munc13-KR/AA did not  . Thus , for these functional assays , rescue with Munc13-1 restored Ca2+ dynamics to that of WT cells , whereas Munc13-KR/AA did not and was indistinguishable from Munc13-KD . These data support the idea that the interaction we identified in vitro constitutes the primary molecular determinant of the effects on VGCCs seen in Munc13-KD neurons . Munc13-1 but not Munc13-KR/AA rescues the Ca2+ influx phenotypes associated with Munc13-KD . Example traces of Ca2+ influx detected by Fluo5F fluorescence in response to a single AP in Munc13-1  and Munc13-KR/AA  expressing neurons in a Munc13-KD background . Example traces of one AP  and two APs separated by 2 ms for Munc13-1  and Munc13-KR/AA  expressing boutons in a Munc13-KD background . Average values for Ca2+ influx  , reactivation at 2 ms ISI  , and residual inactivation  , in Munc13-KD + Munc13-1 and Munc13-KD + Munc 13-KR/AA cells , as in Figures 3 , 4 . 009 Because we observed a Munc13-mediated reduction in VGCC reactivation with 2 ms ISI-paired pulses , we tested the physiological consequences of such stimuli at the level of presynaptic exocytosis . We found that in WT cells stimulation with two APs at 2 ms ISI resulted in a small  increase in exocytosis over a single AP  , corresponding to 80% inhibition of exocytosis from the second AP . This depression in the second AP response was insensitive to decreasing magnitude of influx during the first AP  , consistent with our observations that reductions in extracellular Ca2+ do not affect levels of channel reactivation  . The complete lack of synaptic vesicle exocytosis precludes measuring fast depression in Munc13-KD cells . However , reintroduction of shRNA-resistant Munc13-1 into the KD background gave very similar fast depression to WT cells  . In contrast , expression of Munc13-KR/AA in the Munc13-KD rescued exocytosis from a single AP to levels expected based on Ca2+ influx  but failed to restore the profound depression of exocytosis for 2 ms ISI indicating that this mutant effectively decoupled the vesicle priming activity of Munc13-1 from its effects on VGCCs  . Synaptic vesicle exocytosis was smaller for Munc13-KR/AA rescue than WT cells as one would predict from the reduced Ca2+ influx in Munc13-KR/AA rescues and the steep relationship between Ca2+ influx and vesicle exocytosis  . In fact , exocytosis in Munc13-KR/AA rescue in response to single AP was similar to that measured in WT cells in the presence of 1 . 2 mM extracellular Ca2+  . 2 mM extracellular Ca2+ WT cells but not in Munc13-KR/AA rescue suggests that the increase in exocytosis during 2 ms ISI paired pulses in Munc13-KR/AA is a direct effect of the lack of Munc13-VGCC interaction and not a secondary effect of reduced exocytosis . We therefore conclude that this interaction site in Munc13's C2B domain mediates VGCC channel reactivation in nerve terminals . Munc13-KR/AA rescues synaptic vesicle exocytosis and reveals the effect of fast reactivation on exocytosis . 2 mM external Ca2+  , Munc13-KD + Munc13-1  , and Munc13-KD + Munc13-KR/AA . Dashed line shows the response amplitude of the single AP for comparison  . Increased exocytosis with two APs in Munc13-KD + Munc13-KR/AA cells indicates that the trends in Ca2+ influx have a demonstrable effect on exocytosis , and that the Munc13 interaction with VGCC affects neural processing on this time scale . Exocytosis for a single AP is depressed in Munc13-KD + Munc13-KR/AA terminal by 38% compared to WT rescue , consistent with reduced Ca2+ influx in these cells . 010 The observation that Munc13 enhances Ca2+ influx and modulates kinetic properties of VGCCs across a range of stimulation conditions has broad implications for understanding how synaptic transmission is controlled . Our data strongly imply that this modulation is mediated by a direct VGCC-Munc13 interaction although we cannot exclude that synprint interaction site on Munc13 C2B influences interactions with other proteins in situ that in turn modulate VGCCs . The strong dependence of exocytosis on Ca2+ influx and the control of VGCC function on fast time scales imply that synaptic throughput can be actively controlled by such VGCC-active-zone protein interactions . Remarkably , at physiological temperatures synaptic depression for 2 ms ISIs persists  , but the root cause is not AP failure  but a Munc13-mediated failure of VGCC reactivation  . Given that Munc13 itself is a multi-domain protein , the rules of governing its interaction with VGCCs might be tunable at different synapses depending on the repertoire of other molecular partners and the Munc13 variant . Syntaxin is also a primary interacting partner of Munc13 suggesting that that there might be a 3-way partnership between these proteins that sculpts VGCC and Munc13 function . The synprint interaction motif in Munc13-3 is slightly different than that in Munc13-1  , potentially reflecting differences in its interaction with VGCCs and its impact on synaptic performance for pairs of AP stimuli on fast time scales . It will be interesting in the future to see what active-zone protein interactions are necessary to allow function of Munc13 on VGCCs . Moreover , RIM1 and synaptotagmin contain synprint interaction motifs similar to Munc13 , posing the possibility that VGCC properties could be controlled by these proteins as well . These observations suggest that Munc13's C2B domain could perform a similar function and that the interaction between the C2B domain and PIP2 may be important in mediating the effects of Munc13 on VGCCs or may be an additional level of regulation . The recent observation that Ca2+ channels may be highly diffusible in the presynaptic membrane  provides another potential mechanism by which interactions with active zone proteins such as Munc13 could modulate effective Ca2+ influx . Our data show that the temporal envelope of transmission associated with such spikes in hippocampal neurons is actively controlled by the interaction of VGCCs and Munc13 rather than determined by the limitations of the transmission machinery . The Munc13-KD shRNA vector was made using the pSuper shRNA system  using a RNAi-targeting sequence  common to both Munc13-1  and Munc13-2  based on the design criteria provided in Reynolds et al . Munc13-1 cDNA was kindly provided by Nils Brose , and silent mutations at the RNAi-targeting sequence  were introduced using the Quickchange kit  to generate knockdown resistant Munc13-1 . Munc13-KR/AA mutant was generated using the Quickchange kit to introduce the two point mutations shown in Figure 3 into knockdown resistant Munc13-1 . The CaV2 . Munc13-1 C2B domain  and Munc13-KR/AA C2B domain were expressed as GST fusions on the pGEX-KG plasmid and purified by affinity chromatography on Glutathione-Sepharose  . To quantify endogenous , mutant Munc13 isoforms and Cav2 . 1 in presynaptic boutons , neurons expressing VAMP2-mCherry alone or with a combination of knockdown , and Munc13 mutant constructs were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde , permeablized with 0 . For Munc13 staining cells were then labeled rabbit anti-Munc13  at a 1:500 dilution in blocking solution overnight at 4°C , followed by treatment for 1 hr at 37°C with Alexa-488 conjugated goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody  at 1:1000 dilution in blocking solution . Cav2 . Deviation from linearity for single AP and 2 ms ISI experiments was insignificant . We estimated the FWHM of the second AP by spline fitting the falling phase of this AP and interpolating the 50% crossing point . 
The shape and function of plant cells are often highly interdependent . The puzzle-shaped cells that appear in the epidermis of many plants are a striking example of a complex cell shape , however their functional benefit has remained elusive . We propose that these intricate forms provide an effective strategy to reduce mechanical stress in the cell wall of the epidermis . Together , our results suggest that mechanical stress is a key driver of cell-shape morphogenesis . During growth and morphogenesis , plant cells undergo dramatic changes in size and shape . Starting from small isodiametric cells in proliferative tissues , cells stop dividing and can expand to over 100 times their original size . This results in large elongated cells , such as those in roots and stems , or much more intricate forms , such as the jigsaw puzzle-shaped epidermal cells of Arabidopsis thaliana leaves and cotyledons  , which we call puzzle cells . Disruptions in the ROP/RIC pathways lead to defects in puzzle cell formation  . Although these studies have elucidated many of the molecular players involved in puzzle cell patterning , a mechanistic theory is lacking , in part because the function of the puzzle-shape in epidermal cells is unclear  . Alternatively , puzzle-shaped cells may allow for the correct spacing of the other epidermal cell types , such as guard cells and stomata  . Mechanically , plant cells are like small balloons inflated with considerable turgor pressure , up to 10 bar in Arabidopsis leaf cells  , reaching values up to 50 bar in specialized cells such as stomata  . If the wall is made of a homogeneous material , then for a given turgor pressure , cell size and shape provide a good predictor of mechanical stress  , with larger cells subject to more stress than smaller ones  . Although the composition of the cell wall is undoubtedly more complex  , this suggests that cell shape and mechanical stress are intimately connected . For epidermal cells composing the outermost cell layer in each organ , minimizing mechanical stress on their walls is likely particularly important as the epidermis limits organ growth and is under tension from internal tissues  . Here we explore the relationship between cell shape and mechanical stress , to understand if mechanical stress is a morphological constraint in shaping epidermal cells . We propose a plausible driver for the creation of the intricate , commonly observed puzzle cell forms by demonstrating that they reduce the forces the cell wall has to withstand . We present computer simulation models that show that actively minimizing force leads to the emergence of the puzzle cell shape , reducing stress and thus potentially lowering the amount of cellulose and other wall material required to maintain mechanical integrity of the cell wall . Using the Finite Element Method  , we performed simulations on single cells with idealized shapes to explore the effect of cell shape on turgor-induced mechanical stresses  in the cell wall  . To assess basic relations between cell shape and stress we used uniform , isotropic elastic properties for cell walls , which were assumed to have cell wall thickness of 1 µm , and pressurized the cells to 5 bar  . Starting with a small cube-shaped cell  we increased the initial cell size in different dimensions to observe the effect on stress following pressurization . We observed that an increase of cell length in one direction  does not significantly increase maximal stress in the cell wall  . This suggests that anisotropic growth that results in long thin cells is a mechanically advantageous strategy to limit stress magnitude , limiting the wall thickness required to maintain the cell's integrity . Enlarging the cell in two directions created a large open surface area , causing the cell wall to bulge out in response to turgor pressure , greatly increasing the stress . Here we propose that the puzzle cell shape , with lobes and indentations , provides a solution to this problem . Next , the cells were pressurized , and the stresses visualized  . In order to examine the effect of lobes on the stress , we created a second template with simplified cell shapes using only the junctions  of the original cells  . While the total and average cell area in the original and simplified tissue is the same , the overall stress is much lower in the original  tissue , especially for large cells  . Next , we asked how the presence of lobes affects mechanical stress in the cell wall . We computed mechanical stress in idealized circular cells , adding protrusions to simulate the lobes of a puzzle cell . While stress increases with diameter  , adding lobes to the original cell does not significantly affect stress in the central part of the cell . Similarly , changing lobe width or number does not affect stress in the cell center  . This is similar to what we observed in pressurized puzzle cells  . In the absence of lobes , the load acting in the middle of the cell is transmitted approximately evenly to the cell contour , whereas in puzzle-shaped cells , the central load is transferred to the area between the lobes , creating stress hot spots in the indentations . The magnitude of stress in the indentations is therefore a direct reflection of the large open areas of the cell that they support , and is thus higher when cells bulge more . Despite the stress hot spots between protrusions , overall stress at both the cell and tissue level is much lower in puzzle shaped cells than in the simplified cell shape template  . Following these observations , we propose that the size of the largest empty circle  that can fit into the cell contour  can serve as a proxy for mechanical stress magnitude in both puzzle and non-puzzle shaped cells . For long thin cells , such as in roots or stems , the size of the empty circle is the cell diameter , which is known to predict stress for cylindrical cells  . We hypothesize that in a strongly anisotropically growing organ the plant would make long thin cells , whereas in more isotropic organs puzzle cells would be produced . Counter-intuitively , it is the requirement for isotropic expansion at the tissue scale that drives the irregular shape of puzzle cells . To test our hypothesis , a method to quantify the puzzle shape of cells was required . As the epidermis is a surface of relatively uniform thickness , most shape measures applied to puzzle cells consider only the 2D form of cells , and several methods have been developed for this purpose  . However , it is not suitable for our purposes as both simple , elongated cells and lobed puzzle cells have increased circularity values . Consequently , it cannot be used to reliably distinguish between these cell shapes . Here we use a method based on the convex hull  , the smallest convex shape containing the cell  . We define cell lobeyness as the perimeter of the cell divided by the perimeter of its convex hull  . The higher this value , the more lobed the cell is expected to be . The ratio of the cell's convex hull area to that of the cell is another possibility , however we found that for important special cases , such as worm or boomerang-shaped cells , using the area may produce high ratios even when cells do not have significant lobes . Cortical microtubules are thought to direct the deposition of cellulose fibrils in the cell wall  . These fibrils stiffen the cell wall , causing growth to be favored in the direction perpendicular to the fibrils  . The fact that growth anisotropy affects cell shape and cell shape affects stress , suggests a feedback mechanism linking cell shape and growth via the response of cortical microtubules to mechanical stress directions . This idea is supported by experimental and modeling work showing that predicted stress directions in puzzle cells align with cortical microtubule direction in Arabidopsis cotyledons  . Here we propose a dynamic simulation model of puzzle cell patterning based on the idea that cells can respond to mechanical signals generated by cell geometry . The basic principle behind the model is that as cells grow , stresses gradually increase , and when they reach a threshold level the cell wall is reinforced to resist these stresses . Using simulations on idealized cell templates , we test whether this basic principle is sufficient to generate different cell shapes , depending on the anisotropy of tissue growth . The emerging cell shapes primarily arise from the growth direction imposed at the tissue level that is locally modulated by stress-based growth restriction . During the first phase , springs are inserted across cells in addition to those defining the cell polygon . Second , connections are inhibited if the the cell wall is convex  . and is consistent with the proposed action of ROP2 in excluding ROP6 from lobes . The connections across the cells do not grow . The next simulation step commences by reassigning microtubule/cellulose connections based on the new cell shape and updating the rest-length of cell wall segments . If tissue growth is isotropic , cells quickly approach their target LEC , and connections representing the cellulose and microtubules begin to stretch . These connections act as a proxy for the additional stress in the indentations  . To examine the contribution of growth distribution to cell shape we varied growth anisotropy while all other model parameters remained constant  . elongated cells depends only on the anisotropy of growth at the tissue scale , with puzzle cells appearing for isotropic growth , and elongated cells for anisotropic growth  . If the growth specified has a gradient of anisotropy at the tissue scale , a gradient of cell shapes from elongated to lobed is produced  . Similar gradients in cell shape are seen in A . The model thus illustrates how a mechanism actively limiting the mechanical stress of cells by restricting large open areas  can lead to the formation of puzzle-shape cells in the context of isotropic growth . The model relies on cell-autonomous mechanical restriction of indentations through controlled cellulose deposition and does not require cell-cell signaling molecules to synchronize the indentations in one cell with the protrusions of its neighbor . In particular , the ROP6 in the indentation of one cell must coincide with ROP2 in the corresponding lobe of the neighboring cell . Our model predicts that puzzle cells should appear when cells stop dividing and tissue growth is not primarily in one direction . We then extracted the largest 100 cells from this set  and found a significant correlation between growth anisotropy and lobeyness  . In contrast to cotyledons , the Arabidopsis sepal is an elongated organ with epidermal cells that are either small and relatively isodiametric in shape , or large and elongated . In some samples , the growth is more isotropic than wild type , and cells of more isodiametrically shaped organs exhibit decreased growth anisotropy and increased lobeyness , and start to become puzzle shaped  . The shift from anisotropic to isotropic growth in the sepal is thus correlated with a shift from elongated giant cells to puzzle-shaped cells . This causes an elongated cell and organ phenotype in A . Plants with the elongated phenotype grew more anisotropically than wild type and had epidermal cells with reduced lobeyness  . Thus the change in growth and organ shape from isodiametric to elongated correlated with a decrease in cell lobeyness . To further test the generality of the correlation between organ and cell shape , we examined fruit epidermal cells in a sample of 21 species from the Brassicaceae family  . These fruit pods were either elongated siliques or short , rounded silicles and we only observed puzzle-shaped cells in silicles , not in siliques  . This strict correspondence between fruit shape and puzzle-shaped epidermal cells fits the prediction of our model that puzzle shapes are required to allow cells to enlarge in isotropically growing tissues , but are not required in elongated organs . Our model predicts that plant cells regulate their shape to prevent their LEC , a proxy for stress , from becoming too large . To test this hypothesis , we imaged cells of young cotyledons at different stages of growth and tracked changes in cell and LEC area . We reasoned that if the cell area increases faster than LEC area , cells must have a mechanism to maintain a low LEC radius . In the epidermal cells of 2 DAG seedlings , lobes were small or absent in most cells , while 6 days after germination most cells were puzzle-shaped  . We then pooled all cells from each timepoint and calculated average cell area and LEC area for the largest 20% of cells  . We compared these values to the case where cells are perfectly isodiametric  so that the cell area and LEC area are equal  . Our results show that as the cotyledon grows , the ratio of average LEC area to average cell area increases slower than when the cell is circular . Our model and experiments show that a mechanism , likely cortical-microtubule dependent , generates puzzle shapes to limit stress in large cells when tissue growth is isotropic . It is commonly observed that the periclinal cell walls slightly bulge out in healthy , turgid cells . The shoot apex of Arabidopsis grows isotropically in areas without lateral organs  , with the cells presumably managing their mechanical stress by employing cell division to remain small . In those 20 samples , we could see cell bursting in the latest time points of 13 samples , out of which 10 displayed bursting cells located in the flank of the meristem , where cells were substantially larger  . Furthermore , it activates ROP2 , ROP4 and ROP6 , thereby promoting isotropic cell expansion  . Epidermal cells of spk1 plants have altered shape , with lobes either small or absent , and compared to wild type , their overall cell shape is much less complicated . Furthermore , the epidermis suffers from defects in cell-cell adhesion , which have been reported to result in gaps between cells that are clearly visible in the cotyledon epidermis from approximately 5 DAG on  . In spk1 , epidermal cells of the cotyledons do not have puzzle-shaped forms  , even though the tissue growth isotropy is similar to wild type plants  . Given our hypothesis that lobes function to reduce mechanical stress  during isotropic growth , we tested if LEC was higher in the simple-shaped cells of spk1 mutant than in the puzzle-shaped cells of wild type . Our FEM simulations revealed that cellular stresses in wild type and spk1 cells are similar and scale with LEC  . Cells of the spk1 mutant keep LEC low and overall organ growth remains isotropic . Similar LEC size in mutant and wild type suggests that LEC acts as a threshold for stress based cell shape modification . It is possible that this strategy is insufficient , as holes appear between cells in the growing epidermis of cotyledons  , which may be due to increased mechanical stress . This raises the question as to how broadly this mechanism is conserved , with large cell size and isotropic growth correlating with puzzle-shaped cells . Under this assumption , two geometric strategies are possible for cell expansion in isotropically growing organs without requiring excessively thick walls:  keeping cell size small by frequent divisions or  creating larger , puzzle-shaped cells . Species with the largest average lobeyness also tended to have the largest cells  . Lobe formation is therefore more likely to be observed in big cells rather than small cells , which is intuitive if one considers cell division  as an alternative strategy to limit LEC size and cell wall stress . This suggests our hypothesis , that plants create puzzle-shaped cells in order to reduce stress in large isotropically growing cells , may be conserved among many plant species . We propose that the puzzle shaped cells seen in the epidermis of many plant species emerge from a mechanism that evolved to limit mechanical stress in tissues that grow isotropically , such as the epidermis of leaves and cotyledons . FEM analysis of 3D pressurized cells shows that cell shape influences the direction and magnitude of mechanical stress exerted on the cell wall . When an epidermal cell becomes large in two directions  , stress is greatly increased . In stems , roots and siliques , growth is strongly anisotropic , and cells can simply elongate . We propose that puzzle-shaped cells in the epidermis of more isodiametric plant organs provide a means to avoid large open areas in the cell and the high stresses that they induce . Although it is possible that the interlocking puzzle-shaped cells have a role in strengthening the epidermal cell layer  , our experimental data shows that growth anisotropy correlates with cell shape , a prediction that does not appear to readily follow from this alternative hypothesis . Organs displaying isotropic planar growth have puzzle shaped cells while anisotropically growing organs have more elongated cells with fewer lobes . Genetic perturbations that modify growth anisotropy in either direction result in the predicted changes in cell shape . In the Arabidopsis thaliana cotyledon , a p35S::LNG1 overexpression line changes growth from isotropic to anisotropic , and cell shapes become more elongated with fewer lobes . Conversely , in sepals of the ftsh4 mutant , growth is switched from anisotropic to more isotropic , and the elongated giant cells become more puzzle shaped . Our hypothesis is also consistent with the mild lobing of pavement cells in grass leaves , which often have strongly anisotropic growth  Although studies often focus on anisotropic growth at the cellular level when analyzing puzzle cell development  , our hypothesis suggests that isotropic growth at the tissue level is a primary driver of cell shape . This causes small indentations in the cell , which transfers more stress to them , further recruiting microtubules and more cellulose deposition . The process generates a local activation feedback of cell shape on growth via the mechanical stresses that are induced by that shape . Our model explains the gradual emergence of lobed cells from polygons resembling meristematic cells , providing an explanation for the till now enigmatic morphogenesis of these distinctive cells . It also predicts that the puzzle cell shape is triggered by isotropic growth , and that puzzle cell morphogenesis may not require any signaling molecules to coordinate a protrusion in one cell with the corresponding indentation of its neighbor . Although this cannot explain deep lobes and indentations or lobes on lobes that emerge in maturing puzzle cells , the idea that both anticlinal cell walls and periclinal cell walls play a coordinated role in puzzle shape morphogenesis  is appealing , and warrants further study using FEM models of pavement cell morphogenesis that represent the entire 3D geometry of cells  . Simulations have shown that a ROP2-ROP6 co-repression network can indeed partition a cell in discrete domains of ROP2 and ROP6 expression  . Exocarp cells were stained with propidium iodide , imaged by CLSM  and cell outlines extracted using MorphoGraphX . Cell area and LEC radius were calculated for each cell in each sample . The mesh was segmented , cell area , lobeyness and LEC radius were calculated for all segmented cells . These measures are applied to 2D cell contours , obtained by projecting each 3D cell-contour extracted using MorphoGraphX on a local plane . Lobeyness captures the deviation of 2D cell contours from the convex polygonal forms typical of young undifferentiated cells . The LEC for each cell is computed using the Delaunay triangulation of the contour positions . Thus , the LEC for each cell is calculated by: As the cell-contours extracted from MorphoGraphX are densely sampled compared to the size of cells , the possibility that the largest empty space corresponds to a point on the boundary is ignored . 
Most human genes contain multiple introns , necessitating mechanisms to effectively define exons and ensure their proper connection by spliceosomes . Human spliceosome assembly involves both cross-intron and cross-exon interactions , but how these work together is unclear . We examined in human nuclear extracts dynamic interactions of single pre-mRNA molecules with individual fluorescently tagged spliceosomal subcomplexes to investigate how cross-intron and cross-exon processes jointly promote pre-spliceosome assembly . U1 subcomplex bound to the 5' splice site of an intron acts jointly with U1 bound to the 5' splice site of the next intron to dramatically increase the rate and efficiency by which U2 subcomplex is recruited to the branch site/3' splice site of the upstream intron . This synergy of 5' splice sites across introns and exons is likely important in promoting correct and efficient splicing of multi-intron pre-mRNAs . This machinery recognizes and assembles stepwise at splice sites   to form pre-spliceosomes , which are subsequently remodeled into catalytically active spliceosomes . Pre-spliceosomes can form on multi-intron pre-mRNAs through at least two different pathways . An intron can be recognized a ) via cross-intron interactions leading directly to a catalytically active spliceosome , or b ) via cross-exon interactions where the exons flanking an intron are first defined , after which cross-intron interactions between adjacent cross-exon complexes lead to spliceosome assembly  . On human pre-mRNAs , which characteristically harbor multiple long introns and short exons , exon definition predominates  . Indeed , splicing is greatly enhanced when a 5'SS is present across the exon downstream of an intron , highlighting the importance of exon definition in humans  . Cross-exon pre-spliceosomes can transition into cross-intron pre-spliceosomes , each having a distinct protein composition; the latter can then productively splice the pre-mRNA  . However , the mechanisms by which cross-intron and cross-exon pre-spliceosomes work together to facilitate pre-mRNA splicing remain unclear . cerevisiae , where the cross-intron pathway predominates , single-molecule approaches have proven invaluable for elucidating the kinetic pathways and subcomplex dynamics involved in spliceosome assembly  . Here we developed the tools necessary to implement colocalization single-molecule spectroscopy  in human cell extracts and used this system to investigate the dynamic mechanism of cross-intron and cross-exon cooperation in human pre-spliceosome assembly . We began by investigating whether human nuclear extracts can assemble catalytically-competent spliceosomes on surface-tethered pre-mRNA molecules . To do this , we utilized the pre-mRNA model substrate PIP85A   . We refer to this RNA here as ‘5i3’ to indicate that , reading in the 5'-to-3' direction , it contains a partial exon , a 5'SS  , an intron  , a 3'SS  , and another partial exon . For this pre-mRNA 20 ± 2%  was converted to spliced products after 40 mins in human cell line HEK293 nuclear extract  . No spliced products were observed in the absence of ATP , which is required for spliceosome assembly . To monitor splicing of individual 5i3 molecules , we incorporated a green-excited dye into the 5' exon , a red-excited dye into the intron , and biotin at the end of the 3' exon  . We sparsely deposited this pre-mRNA onto a streptavidin-functionalized glass surface , added nuclear extract and followed green and red fluorescence from single pre-mRNA molecules over time . To exclude pre-mRNAs that lost intron signal due to RNA degradation , we selected only those molecules retaining 5' exon  fluorescence at the end of the 40 min experiment . 7%  lost intron  fluorescence in a control conducted in the absence of ATP  whereas 18 ± 4%  lost intron fluorescence in the presence of ATP . This single-molecule assay specifically monitors intron release , while the bulk assay measures the second splicing step . Intron release requires an ATP-dependent structural rearrangement of the splicing machinery after the second splicing step , so as expected the lag phase was somewhat longer in the single-molecule assay  than in the bulk splicing assay  . However , surface-tethered 5i3 pre-mRNA molecules were spliced with a similar efficiency  to what is observed in solution  . Because spliceosomal subcomplex concentrations in human nuclear extracts exceed the low dye concentrations optimal for single-molecule fluorescence , we labeled the tagged proteins using a limiting dye concentration  . Importantly , all tagged and dye-labeled extracts exhibited bulk splicing efficiencies comparable to extracts from the untagged parental cell line  . We next used the labeled extracts in CoSMoS experiments in which we compared subcomplex dynamics on individual RNAs designed to promote assembly of cross-intron or cross-exon pre-spliceosomes  . The cross-intron RNA  was identical to that in Figure 1 except that it contained a single red-excited dye adjacent to the biotin tether at the end of the 3' exon . An identically-labeled cross-exon RNA  was constructed by swapping the 5' and 3' halves of 5i3 . Thus , 5i3 and 3e5 consist of identical sequence segments , and differ only by whether the 5' and 3'SS are separated by an intron  or an exon  . After introducing extract containing dye-labeled U1 , we monitored the binding and dissociation of labeled U1 to individual RNA molecules and to control locations that had no RNA  . To quantitatively characterize subcomplex binding to the surface tethered RNAs , we measured both the frequency of RNA-specific subcomplex binding events and the steady-state fractional occupancy RNA molecules by the subcomplex . U1 binding to 5i3 RNA was highly dynamic with many arrivals and departures per active RNA molecule  and a high frequency of short  binding events  . Observed binding events were almost entirely RNA-specific; fewer and only short-duration binding events were observed at control ‘no RNA’ locations  . Overall , the kinetics of human spliceosomal subcomplex binding and dissociation on the cross-intron 5i3 substrate were similar to those observed in CoSMoS experiments on cross-intron RNAs in S . cerevisiae extracts  . Spliceosomal subcomplex interactions with the cross-exon 3e5 RNA were quantitatively different from interactions with the cross-intron 5i3 RNA . 3e5 RNA molecules exhibited more frequent binding events  and higher mean occupancy  for all subcomplexes than 5i3 molecules . These differences might be partially explained by the inability of the cross-exon pre-mRNA to form a catalytically active spliceosome  , resulting in the greater accumulation of inactive spliceosome assembly intermediates at steady state . Consistent with this idea , U1 , U2 and U5 exhibited a higher frequency of long-lived  binding events on the splicing-inactive 3e5 RNA than on the spliceable cross-intron 5i3 RNA  . Thus , consistent with previous cross-intron data in yeast  , human U1 binding is independent of U2 binding in both cross-intron and cross-exon contexts . As expected , this mutation  decreased the U1 association rate and eliminated RNA-specific long-duration  U1 binding events in both cross-intron and cross-exon contexts  . cerevisiae extract  . In both the cross-intron and cross-exon contexts , elimination of the canonical 5'SS decreased U2 binding frequency to background within experimental uncertainty  . Absence of U5 binding to these RNAs  confirmed that the mutations abolished the formation of functional pre-spliceosomes . These observations could indicate that observable U2 binding requires the U1 binding to a 5'SS positioned either cross-exon or cross-intron . In multi-intron pre-mRNAs , internal exons have 5'SS both upstream and downstream , either or both of which could bind U1 and act to recruit U2 to the 3'SS . Such is the case for the activities of multiple SR proteins on splicing efficiency  . Consistent with the concept of exon definition  , splicing of 5i3e5 was 5-fold more efficient than 5i3eX in ensemble splicing reactions  . As expected , no splicing was observed on Xi3eX RNA . Consistent with the observation that U2 binding in the cross-intron and cross-exon contexts depends on a 5'SS  , no U2 binding above background levels was observed for the RNA with no 5'SS   . Additionally , the shapes of the U2 dwell time distributions on 5i3eX and Xi3e5  were similar to those of the shorter 5i3 cross-intron and 3e5 cross-exon constructs  . Striking differences were apparent , however , when we compared the single 5'SS RNAs  to the double 5'SS RNA   . The presence of flanking 5'SS both upstream and downstream of the 3'SS dramatically increased U2 recruitment , with the RNA-specific U2 binding event frequency being more than 2 . Here we establish methods for observing the dynamics of spliceosomal subcomplexes on and the splicing of individual pre-mRNA molecules in human cell extract . In contrast , stable U2 binding to the 3'SS is accelerated by a 5'SS situated across either the adjacent intron or adjacent exon . Strikingly , when functional 5'SS are present together at both cross-intron and cross-exon locations , they synergistically promote U2 recruitment . The more than additive effect of the flanking 5'SS indicates that U1 employs different molecular mechanisms/interactions across introns and across exons to accelerate U2 recruitment . A simple model that would explain this observed synergy of cross-exon and cross-intron 5'SS on U2 recruitment rate is that cross-exon U1 binding assists in recruiting the splicing factors that form a platform for U2 binding to the upstream 3'SS region , whereas the cross-intron U1-U2 interaction favors a U2 conformation capable of productive branch site engagement  . A different and not necessarily mutually exclusive model is that cross-exon and cross-intron U1 interactions could both help form the binding platform for U2 , but by interacting with different proteins   . Models of the type presented in Figure 5 assume that once a functional U1-U2 pre-spliceosome forms across the intron , interactions with U1 bound to the downstream 5'SS provide no additional U2 binding stabilization or stimulation of subsequent steps of spliceosome assembly  . Taken together , our data suggest that the synergistic stimulatory effect of the downstream 5'SS on splicing is exerted at the U2 recruitment step and the processes that enable it , not at the subsequent steps of spliceosome assembly and splicing . This collaboration dramatically increases the rate of stable U2 recruitment during pre-spliceosome formation . Cross-intron and cross-exon 5'SS synergy on U2 recruitment rate explains how U1 can have such a strong effect on U2 recruitment despite its association with pre-mRNA being much more dynamic than U2 . This mechanism is likely crucial for rapid definition of internal exons in multi-intron RNAs , enabling the human splicing machinery to avoid inappropriate exon skipping . Two color pre-mRNAs carrying a 3' biotin  were prepared by splinted ligation as previously described  using DNA oligonucleotides and RNA segments listed in Tables 1 and 2 . The ligation resulted in an RNA where the 5' exon was labeled with a single green-excited dye  at position −7 relative to the 5'SS , the intron was labeled with on average two red-excited dyes  at positions 18 , 30 and/or 42 relative to the 5'SS , and a single biotin was added to the 3' end by Klenow extension with biotin-dCTP   . One-color pre-mRNAs  were labeled at the 3' end by Klenow extension with both AlexaFluor 647 dUTP  and biotin dCTP , resulting in one  or two  AlexaFluor 647 dyes and one biotin per pre-mRNA molecule . coli tRNA with 20 fmol radioactively labeled pre-mRNA substrate . Where indicated , anti-U1 AMO or control AMO  were added at 10 µM final concentration as previously described  and the splicing reaction was 20 min pre-incubated at 30°C prior to the addition of pre-mRNA substrate . RNAs were extracted and separated by denaturing polyacrylamide  gel electrophoresis . Splicing efficiencies were calculated as the ratio of spliced RNA product  to pre-mRNA starting material at time zero . RNAs were tethered on the slide surface at a total density of ~0 . When multiple different RNA species were tethered sequentially , a microscope image was taken after each round of deposition to individually identify the molecules of each RNA species . Locations of tethered RNA molecules and control locations were determined in drift-corrected , color-aligned images . Binding frequencies were calculated as described  . The time-averaged specific occupancy of RNA molecules by a spliceosomal subcomplex  was calculated as  /  where the subscripts m and c refer to RNA and no RNA control locations , respectively , and f represents the fraction of time that a fluorescent spot was present , averaged over all locations measured for each type . Note that this value underestimates the subcomplex occupancy since only a fraction of each subcomplex is labeled  . 
We show that folding of the Wnt signaling coreceptor LRP6 is promoted by ubiquitination of a specific lysine , retaining it in the ER while avoiding degradation . Subsequent ER exit requires removal of ubiquitin from this lysine by the deubiquitinating enzyme USP19 . To avoid infinite futile cycles , folded LRP6 molecules undergo palmitoylation and ER export , while unsuccessfully folded proteins are , with time , polyubiquitinated on other lysines and targeted to degradation . Most transmembrane proteins , which jointly compose 30% of the human proteome , are synthesized by ER-bound ribosomes and co-translationally inserted into the ER membrane  . Less is known about the assisted folding in the ER membrane and on the cytosolic side . ERAD involves polyubiquitination of the cytosolic domains of transmembrane protein , extraction from the ER membrane and degradation by the proteasome  . LRP6 is a type I membrane protein composed of a large extracellular domain containing multiple ß-propeller and EGF-like domains  . Proper folding of the ß-propeller domains depends of the dedicated LRP6 chaperone Mesd   and possibly other chaperones such as calnexin . We have previously shown that exit of LRP6 from the ER also requires a cytoplasmic post-translational modification , namely S-palmitoylation , on two cysteine residues in close proximity to the transmembrane domain  . LRP6 acylation influences the conformation of this domain , possibly by alleviating the hydrophobic mismatch between the thickness of the membrane and the length of the hydrophobic stretch composing the transmembrane domain . Mutation of the palmitoylation sites leads to retention of LRP6 in the ER and ubiquitination on Lys-1403  indicative of its recognition by a quality control mechanism  . Once properly folded , LRP6 exits the ER , it transits through the Golgi , as indicated by the acquisition of Endoglycosidase H insensitive complex sugars  , before reaching the plasma membrane where its signal role takes place . Here we have further investigated LRP6 biogenesis in the ER . We show that newly synthesized wild type LRP6 also undergoes ubiquitination , on the same site  , and that this post-translational modification promotes its folding . For ER exit to occur , ubiquitination must however be subsequently removed . This is mediated by the deubiquitinating enzyme USP19 , one of the isoforms of which is tail-anchored to the ER  . Interestingly , USP19 is a target gene of the unfolded protein response  and was found to rescue CFTR ΔF508 from ERAD  . More recently it was found that USP19 is a key player in a novel misfolded-protein associated secretion MAPS pathway  . We show that USP19 controls the cellular levels of LRP6 . In the absence of USP19 , LRP6 is efficiently targeted to ERAD . Upon USP19 overexpression , ER exit of LRP6 is greatly enhanced . Upon ubiquitination on Lys-1403 , LRP6 presumably interacts with an ubiquitin-binding protein that acts as a chaperone and provides the protein with time to fold . If folding is successful , LRP6 is transported out of the ER , a step that is favored by palmitoylation  . If folding is impaired or delayed , polyubiquitination of other cytosolic lysine residues takes over and targets LRP6 to ERAD . We analyzed LRP6 stability by performing a cycloheximide chase , which consists in following total protein expression levels by western blot analysis of extracts from Pigmented epithelial  cells submitted for various times to a protein synthesis block . No significant decay of LRP6 was observed over a 6 hr period  . We next measured LRP6 stability by performing 35S Cys/Met metabolic pulse-chase experiments . Protein decay , monitored following a 20 min metabolic pulse , indicated that the apparent half-life ( t12app of endogenous LRP6 in RPE1 cells is approximately 3 hr  . The same experiment was repeated on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 in HeLa cells  . Then , we show that t12app was identical for endogenous LRP6 in RPE1 cells and transiently expressed myc-LRP6 in Hela , indicating that the potential difference in expression in these two systems does not affect degradation rates and allowing us to use both systems . LRP6 undergoes rapid degradation following synthesis in the ER but is stable once mature . representative western blot of a cycloheximide  chase in RPE1 cells . 40 µg of total cell extracts from RPE1 cells were loaded per lane , analyzed by SDS-PAGE followed by Western blotting against endogenous LRP6 , calnexin  , a stable protein and Myc , a short lived protein . CDE: RPE1 cells were submitted to metabolic 35S Cys/Met labeling for different times and subsequently chased for different times . Endogenous LRP6 was immunoprecipitated with an anti-LRP6 antibody . Hela cells transiently expressing myc-tagged palmitoylation deficient LRP6  were submitted to metabolic 35S Cys/Met labeling for different times and subsequently chased for different times . LRP6 was subsequently immunoprecipitated using an anti-myc antibody . Variation in USP19 cellular amount influences LRP6 degradation rates . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  in the following conditions: immunoprecipitation of myc-LPR6 in HeLa cells transiently expressing myc-LRP6 wild type  upon control silencing  vs . usp19 silencing  or upon co-overexpression of myc-LRP6 wild type and wild type GFP-tagged USP19  vs . catalytically inactive GFP-tagged USP19  ; immunoprecipitation of endogenous LRP6 in RPE1 cells wild type  vs . RPE1 knout-out cells for usp19 gene  . Total cell extract of wild type RPE1 and RPE1 knout-out cells for usp19 gene revealed with USP19 , LRP6 and Actin antibodies . 006 The above apparent discrepancy between the cycloheximide chase and the metabolic labeling approach is due to the fact that stability of mature LRP6 is monitored through the first approach , while newly synthesized LRP6 is monitored by the second . Indeed , the t12app of LRP6 increased to ≈ 5 hr for a 2 hr pulse and >15 hr for a 16 hr pulse  . The long apparent half-lives estimated both by long metabolic labeling and cycloheximide chase suggest that mature LRP6 has a half-life that exceeds 20 hr . The rapid decay times observed for short metabolic pulses on the other hand indicate that close to 80% of newly synthesized LRP6 molecules are degraded in our cells within the first 6 hr  , and thus do not contribute to the population of active Wnt signaling co-receptors . To determine the relative contribution of these pathways to the degradation of LRP6 , we repeated the 20 min metabolic pulse-chase experiments while either inhibiting the proteasome with MG132 or preventing lysosomal degradation by inhibiting the vacuolar ATPase with Bafilomycin A . MG132 protected LRP6 from degradation early after synthesis  , consistent with degradation of a subpopulation of LRP6 molecules by ERAD during biogenesis . Bafilomycin A protected LRP6 at later times  , consistent with transport of a portion of newly synthesized LRP6 molecules to the plasma membrane and their subsequent endocytosis and targeting to lysosomes  . That LRP6 undergoes degradation by two distinct pathways is further support by the observation that palmitoylation deficient LRP6 , in which the two cysteines are mutated to serines  , and which does not exit the ER  , is partially rescued by MG132  but is insensitive to inhibitors of lysosomal enzymes such as Bafilomycin A  or leupeptin  . The involvement of lysosomal enzymes in LRP6 degradation thus requires export out of the ER . We have previously shown that LRP6 undergoes palmitoylation in the ER on Cys-1394 and Cys-1399 and that palmitoylation is required for ER exit  . This was based on the observation that palmitoylation deficient LRP6 did not exit the ER and underwent ubiquitination on Lys-1403  . To further investigate the importance of palmitoylation and ubiquitination on LRP6 biogenesis , we performed 35S Cys/Met metabolic pulse-chase experiments on the palmitoylation deficient LRP6CC–SS mutant , on the K1403R mutant  and on the triple mutant  . Following a 20 min pulse , no significant difference in degradation was observed between wild type LRP6 and LRP6CC–SS  in agreement with our previous observations  . Mutation of the palmitoylation sites and the Lys-1403 ubiquitination site accelerate LRP6 targeting to ERAD . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 wild type  , palmitoylation deficient  or K1403R  mutants in HeLa cells . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 wild type  , or K1403R  mutant in HeLa cells silenced or not for mesd gene  . 05 calculated between LRP6 WT and K1403R . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6K1403R in HeLa cells supplemented or not  with MG132  or Bafilomycin A  . Immunoprecipitation of myc-tagged LRP6 Wild Type  and K1403 mutant  revealed with anti-Ubiquitin antibody , with or without MG132 treatment . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 wild type  or palmitoylation deficient  in HeLa cells . Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 wild type  , palmitoylation deficient  , K1403R  or K1403R in the palmitoyl deficient background  mutants in HeLa cells . 008 To estimate the importance of the contribution of Lys-1403 to LRP6 folding , we compared the effect of this mutation to that of silencing the dedicated LRP6 chaperone Mesd . Remarkably , mutation of Lys-1403 had a more pronounced effect on LRP6 degradation than mesd silencing  . Accelerated LRP6K1403R degradation did not involve lysosomes since Bafilomycin A had no effect , also suggesting that newly synthesized LRP6K1403R does not significantly exit the ER during the 6 hr that follow its synthesis . Degradation of LRP6K1403R could however be partially rescued by MG132  . Consistent with its targeting to the proteasome , LRP6K1403R underwent polyubiquitination as revealed when immunoprecipitating LRP6 from MG132 treated cells and blotting against ubiquitin  . This observation also shows that ERAD targeting of LRP6 does not involve , or at least does not require , Lys-1403 polyubiquitination . Extending the pulse time to 2 or 16 hr revealed that the stability of LRP6 does depend on palmitoylation  . The tripple LRP6K1403RCC−SS mutant was therefore the least stable  . Altogether these observations indicate that spontaneous folding of LRP6 is very inefficient , and that both ubiquitination and palmitoylation promote LRP6 biogenesis and ER exit . even in the absence of Lys-1403 and/or palmitoylation , a small population of molecules folds properly and exits the ER . Western blot analysis of LRP6 mutants may therefore be misleading as to the importance of specific residues for biogenesis and membrane targeting  . The above findings , combined with our previous observation that LRP6CC–SSundergoes ubiquitination on Lys-1403 and fails to exit the ER  , led us to propose the following working hypothesis: following synthesis and insertion into the ER membrane , LRP6 first undergoes ubiquitination , probably of a specific type , on Lys-1403 , allowing it to interact with an ER or cytosolic ubiquitin-binding protein . This interaction provides LRP6 with time to fold –and as such this ubiquitin-binding protein would act as a chaperone– protecting it from ERAD targeting . Lys-1403 is then deubiquitinated . At this stage , LRP6 can either  undergo palmitoylation of its two juxtamembranous cysteine residues , followed by ER exit ,  be re-ubiquitinated on Lys-1403 , or  be polyubiquitinated on one of the other 16 cytoplasmic lysine residues and sent to ERAD . Option 1 , re-ubiquitination on Lys-1403 , allows LRP6 to undergo a second cycle of interaction with its ubiquitin-binding chaperone , further promoting folding . Palmitoylation , which favors ER exit  , could prevent LRP6 from Lys-1403 ubiquitination , possibly through a conformational change of steric hindrance given the juxtamembrane localization of both modifications . This DUB would control LRP6 biogenesis . Because LRP6 folding takes place in the ER , we searched for ER-associated DUBs and to the best of our knowledge , only USP19 has an ER localized isoform  . Endogenous LRP6 and USP19 could be co-immunoprecipitated from RPE1 cells  . While ubiquitination of LRP6 is undetectable under control condition  , silencing of usp19  revealed a clear LRP6 ubiquitination signal  , often , but not always , appearing as a well identifiable band and a smear . Strikingly , LRP6 levels dropped drastically upon usp19 silencing whether in HeLa  , RPE1 cells or primary human fibroblasts  . The same was observed upon CRISPR/Cas9-mediated usp19 knockout in RPE1 cells  . Silencing of usp19 also led to an increase in ubiquitination of palmitoylation-deficient LRP6CC–SS and a decrease of its expression  . In reverse , over expression of wild type USP19 , but not of its catalytically inactive mutant  reduced ubiquitination of LRP6CC–SS  , indicating that USP19 influences LRP6 ubiquitination in a manner that depends on its DUB activity . Thus consistent with our working hypothesis , an ER-localized DUB , USP19 , controls the expression of LRP6 . De-ubiquitination of LRP6 by USP19 on Lys-1403 promotes LRP6 biogenesis . Immunoprecipitation of endogenous LRP6 and  cellular level in RPE1 cells upon usp19 silencing . C/D/E/F: Metabolic 35SCys/Met pulse chase experiment  on transiently expressed myc-LRP6 wild type  , palmitoylation deficient mutant  , K1403R mutant  or K1403R mutation in the palmitoyl deficient background  mutants in HeLa cells upon over expression of GFP-tagged USP19  or GFP-tagged USP19 catalytically inactive  or upon usp19 gene silencing  . Variation in USP19 cellular amount influences LRP6 ubiquitination state . RT-PCR detecting usp19 , usp13 and LRP6 mRNA expression level upon silencing of usp19 and usp13 genes with specific RNAi . B Total cell extracts of Hela transiently expressing Myc-LRP6 and silenced with 3 different RNAi targeting usp19 gene . C ) Total cell extract of primary fibroblasts silenced for usp19 gene or overexpressing GFP-tagged USP19 revealed with GFP , LRP6 and Actin antibodies . Quantification of LRP6 cellular amount is shown on the right . Immunoprecipitation of transiently expressed palmitoylation deficient myc-LRP6  upon usp19 silencing . Quantification of Myc-LRP6CC-SS cellular amount in TCE is shown on the right . ( D Immunoprecipitation of transiently expressed palmitoylation deficient myc-LRP6  upon overexpression of GFP-tagged USP19 vs . GFP-tagged USP19  catalytically inactive mutant  . 012 We next investigated whether USP19 indeed affects LRP6 biogenesis . siRNA-mediated silencing of usp19 in HeLa cells and usp19 knock-out in RPE1 cells  both led to a strong decrease in t12app of LRP6 , droping from 3 to 1 hr , as monitored by 35S Cys/Met metabolic pulse-chase experiments  . Overexpression of wild type USP19 led to a marked increase in t12app to above 6 hr , beyond the time frame of these experiments . Importantly , overexpression of catalytically inactive USP19C506S had no effect . This not only shows that the catalytic activity of USP19 is required , but the complete absence of rescue also indicates that USP19 does not act as a chaperone , as proposed for the unconventional misfolded protein-associated secretion MAPS pathway  . The palmitoylation deficient LRP6CC–SS was affected in a qualitatively similar manner: silencing usp19 decreased t12app to less than 1 hr , while over expression of USP19 increased t12app to 6 hr  . Remarkably , silencing or overexpression of USP19 had no effect whatsoever on LRP6K1403R  . Mutation of Lys-1403 similarly abolished the regulatory effect of USP19 on LRP6CC–SS , LRP6K1403RCC−SS being insensitive to the cellular USP19 levels  . Altogether these experiments clearly point to Lys-1403 as the specific target site of USP19 , revealing the crucial role of this residue in preventing early LRP6 degradation . These experiments also show that USP19 , even when overexpressed , cannot reverse the polyubiquination undergone by LRP6K1403R and thus ERAD targeting , further highlighting the specificity of this DUB . Finally , these observations demonstrate that USP19 promotes the biogenesis of LRP6 , with only 18% of newly synthesized LRP6 molecules surviving beyond 6 hr in the absence of USP19 and 60% surviving upon USP19 overexpression . We finally tested the importance of USP19 for LRP6 function , as the co-receptor in Wnt signaling . Overexpression of USP19 in HeLa cells lead to a 50% increase in the Wnt signaling capacity  , monitored using the TOPFLASH reporter assay  . Most strikingly , silencing of usp19 , but not usp13 , in RPE1 cells stably expressing 7xTCF-FFluc directly activated by the TCF/-βcatenin complex led to a more than 80% drop in Wnt signaling  . In agreement , surface biotinylation showed that usp19 silencing lead to a drastic drop LRP6 at the cell surface  . USP19 controls the Wnt signaling capacity of the cell . Wnt signaling measured in HEK293 cells carrying the TOPFLASH reporter assay , transiently transfected for the indicated constructs   Wnt signaling measured in RPE1 cells stably expressing lentiviral vector possessing a 7xTCF-FFluc upon usp19 or usp13 silencing  . cellular level of the indicated endogenous proteins in RPE1 cells upon usp19 silencing  or overexpression  of GFP-tagged USP19 . cellular level of transiently co-transfected CFTR  and GFP-tagged USP19  in RPE1 cells . usp19 silencing leads to decrease in LRP6 cell surface expression . Surface Biotinylation assay performed in RPE1 cells upon 24 , 48 and 72 hr of usp19 or usp13 gene silencing . Quantification of endogenous LRP6 surface expression at 48 hr of gene silencing in Streptavidin-mediated pull down is shown above the western blot . 016 We here reveal the existence of an ubiquitin-dependent folding machinery , which operates on the cytosolic side of the ER membrane  . More specifically we show that following synthesis , LRP6 undergoes ubiquitination on Lys-1403 , most likely of a specific form . In conceptual analogy to the binding of newly synthesized mono-glucosylated proteins to calnexin in the ER lumen  , we hypothesize that Lys-1403-ubiquitin can interact with a putative ER-ubiquitin binding protein that would also act as a chaperone . Upon release from this putative ubiquitin-binding chaperone , LRP6 is deubiquitinated by USP19 . Following USP19 deubiquitination , LRP6 can , if properly folded , exit the ER , an events possibly promoted by palmitoylation of cysteines in the vicinity of Lys-1403  . Or , LRP6 can undergo a new cycle of Lys-1403-specific ubiquitination and chaperone binding . Upon prolonged presence in the ER , LRP6 undergoes polyubiquitination on other cytosolic lysines , leading to ERAD targeting . In the ER , LRP6 can thus undergo two types of ubiquitination events , which operate with different kinetics:  specific ubiquitination on Lys-1403 which promotes folding ,  the slower polyubiquitination on other lysines which promotes ERAD . While the here described ubiquitin-dependent folding system was identified for LRP6 , it likely also operates on other membrane proteins . We indeed found that usp19 silencing also led to a pronounced decrease in the levels of CMG2  , defective folding of which lead to Hyaline Fibromatosis Syndrome   . Silencing of usp19 however did not affect the levels of the CMG2-related protein TEM8  , nor those of the Transferrin and the EGF receptors  . USP19 was reported to rescue the CFTR Δ508 mutant , which is an ERAD substrate  . USP19 however also controls proteostasis of wild type CFTR  . Hela and RPE1 cells were used in this study . RPE1 USP19 knockout cell lines were generated using the CRISPR/Cas9 technology . We used the following primary antibodies: Rabbit anti-LRP6 mAb  , Mouse anti-Actin mAb  , Mouse anti-Myc 9E10 mAb  , Mouse Ubiquitin  , Goat anti-CMG2  , TEM8  , Mouse anti-Tf-R  , Mouse anti-EGF-R  , CFTR  , Mouse anti-Tubulin  , Mouse anti-GFP  , Rabbit anti-USP19  . LRP6 encoding plasmids as been previously described  . Plasmids were transfected into RPE1 and HeLa cells for 24 hr in cDNA/9 . 5 µg myc-LRP6 wild type or mutant encoding plasmids/9 . 
While male and female mice had similar accuracy , they achieved this performance via different patterns of exploration . Male mice tended to make more exploratory choices overall , largely because they appeared to get ‘stuck’ in exploration once they had started . Female mice tended to explore less but learned more quickly during exploration . Together , these results suggest that sex exerts stronger influences on decision making during periods of learning and exploration than during stable choices . Here , we applied computational tools to characterize sex differences in the latent variables underlying behavior to understand sex differences in a key cognitive process regulating reward-guided behaviors: balancing exploration and exploitation . Too little exploration makes behavior inflexible and perseverative . Exploration is dysregulated in numerous neuropsychiatric disorders  , many of which are also sex-biased  . This suggests that sex differences in exploration and exploitation could contribute to sex-linked vulnerability to these conditions , though we do not yet understand how exploration and exploitation differ with sex . Because exploration is a major source of errors in task performance more broadly  , sex-differences in exploration could contribute to performance differences and variability seen across tasks and speciess  . To examine whether there are sex differences in exploration , we trained male and female mice on a classic explore/exploit task , a spatial restless two-armed bandit  . Males showed higher levels of exploration than females throughout the task . This was because males were more likely to get ‘stuck’ in extended periods of exploration before committing to a favored choice . On the other hand , females showed elevated reward learning specifically during bouts of exploration , making exploratory trials more informative , which allowed them to start exploiting a favored choice earlier than males . One possible difference was sex differences in the level of exploration . Prior research has shown that exploratory choices take longer than exploitative choices  . Therefore , perhaps males took longer to make a choice because a greater proportion of their choices were exploratory . To test this hypothesis , we first need a method to label each choice as an exploratory choice or an exploitative choice . In some previous studies , reinforcement learning  models were used to quantify exploration  via labeling choices that deviate from model values as exploratory . This approach is based on the rationale that exploration is a non-reward maximizing goal . However , a non-reward maximizing goal would produce choices that are orthogonal to reward value , not errors of reward maximization  . However , because exploration requires investigatory samples , runs of exploratory choices tend not to repeat the same option . Note that explore-labeled choices are more likely to also be switch choices , but not all explore-labeled choices are switches , and not all exploit-labeled choices are stay decisions . We first examined the correlation between explore-exploit states inferred by the HMM model and the RL model . We calculated the tetrachoric correlation between HMM-inferred and RL-inferred states  . Next , to examine whether the states inferred by these models also produced differences in behavioral metrics other than choices , we computed average response time for explore trials and exploit trials labeled by the RL model and HMM model . The result suggested that response time was significantly longer during HMM-inferred exploration than exploitation ( paired t-test , t  = 3 . 0009 ) , which is consistent with previous findings that exploration slows down decision making  . Like HMM-inferred states , RL inferred explore-exploit states showed similar effects on response time - response time was significantly longer during exploration than exploitation ( paired t-test , t  = 2 . The HMM allows us to make statistical inferences about the probability that each choice was due to exploration or exploitation via modeling these as the latent goal states underlying choice  . To evaluate the face validity of the HMM labels , we asked whether HMM-labeled exploratory choices matched the normative definition of the term . First , by definition , exploration is a pattern of non-reward-maximizing choices whose purpose is learning about rewards . This means exploratory choices should be  orthogonal to reward value , and  exhibit enhanced reward learning . Explore-labeled choices were non-reward-maximizing: they were orthogonal to reward value ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1D; the average value of choices chosen during exploration was not different from chance; one sample t-test , t  = 0 . Reward learning was also elevated during exploration . During HMM-labeled exploratory states , the outcome of choices had more influence on the subsequent decision - animals were more likely to stay with the same choice if rewarded and switch if not rewarded ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1F , two-way RM ANOVA , interaction term , F  = 51 . To eliminate the possibility that exploration was merely disengagement from the task , we examined average reward retrieval time during exploratory and exploitative states . 95 ) , suggesting that animals were not more disengaged from the task during exploration than exploitation . They were only slower in making a decision . Together , these results demonstrated that HMM-labeled exploration was meaningful , non-reward-maximizing , and accompanied by enhanced reward learning , matching the normative definition of exploration . Females explored much less with only 55 . 0056; 95% CI for the difference between the sexes =  ) . As groups , males and females were reasonably , but not perfectly discriminable in terms of the proportion of exploratory choices  . Males repeated exploration 92 . 1 %  of the time , while females stopped exploring and committed to a choice more quickly , repeating exploration only 83 . There were no significant differences in the other parameter of the HMM ( probability of repeating exploitation: males = 83 . 7%; females = 79 . Since males had more exploratory trials , which took longer , we tested the possibility that the sex difference in response time was due to prolonged exploration in male by calculating a two-way ANOVA between explore-exploit state and sex in predicting response time . 0011 ) , but males were slower during females during both exploitation and exploration ( main effect of sex , F  = 14 . However , we failed to see changes in the amount of exploration within sessions and across sessions in both males and females . In models fit to males , exploration was a deeper , more ‘sticky’ behavioral state  , compared to models fit to females , where exploration and exploitation were more closely matched ( 54 . 4% STD; different from males: t  = 2 . The results from the HMM analyses suggest that males were , on average , more exploratory than females , and not because they were more likely to initiate exploration , but because they were more likely to become ‘stuck’ in exploration . This suggests that there were sex differences in the animals’ approach to this task . To address this question , we turned to reinforcement learning  modeling to look for individual variability in latent cognitive parameters that could influence exploration and exploitation  . RL models include multiple parameters that could influence exploration . Consider a simple , two-parameter RL model , with one learning rate parameter  and one parameter for decision noise  . Traditionally , only the latter parameter is thought to be related to exploration , and many previous studies of exploration have focused exclusively on this inverse temperature parameter  . However , exploration in an RL model should be a function of both the difference in subjective values and the decision-noise in the model . In the case of decision-noise , this happens because more choices deviate from reward-maximizing policies as noise increases . To test our intuition , we simulated data from a simple two-parameter RL model , then used the HMM to infer when and why exploration occurred . As expected , changing the decision-noise parameter  robustly changed the probability of exploration  : the larger the inverse temperature , the lower the decision noise and the lower probability of exploration . Critically , learning rate  also influenced the probability of exploration  . In fact , there were some values for learning rate  at which changing decision noise had no effect on exploration whatsoever: ɑ and β interacted to influence exploration  . Thus , even in this simple two-parameter RL model , multiple latent , cognitive variables can influence exploration . Because of this ambiguity , it was not clear whether males explored more frequently because they had more decision-noise , because they learned less from rewards , or because there were changes in other decision-making or learning computations , like the tendency to simply repeat past choices . The HMM suggested that males and females had different levels of exploration , but it did not provide insight into the latent , cognitive processes behind these differences . Previous studies have shown the effect of various RL parameters on decision making , including learning terms such as asymmetrical learning rate  , bias terms such as choice bias  , noise terms such as inverse temperature and lapse rate  . These models included:  a ‘random’ model with some overall bias for one choice over the other ,  a ‘noisy win stay lose shift’ model that assumes a win stay lose shift policy with some level of randomness ,  a two-parameter ‘RL’ model with a consistent learning rate and some inverse temperature that captures decision noise ,  a three-parameter ‘RLε’ model with a consistent learning rate , and inverse temperature that captures value-based decision noise , and a value-independent noise ,  a four-parameter ‘RLCK’ model that captures both value-based and value-independent decision with separate parameters for learning rate , decision noise , choice bias , and choice stickiness ,  a five-parameter ‘RLCKγ’ model that incorporates differential learning rate for rewarded and unrewarded outcomes on top of the ‘RLCK’ model ,  a five-parameter ‘RLCKη’ model that adds a parameter that tunes the weight between value-based and choice-based decision to the ‘RLCK’ model  . Although model fitting was slightly different across sexes , in both males and females , the “RLCK” model , four-parameter model with value and choice kernel updating policies , best characterized animals’ choice behaviors in this task among all seven models  . The fact that the ‘RLCK’ model was the best-fit model in both males and females does not mean both sexes had the same strategy or that RL modeling cannot capture those strategies . To quantify how well each RL model was at predicting animals’ choices , we measured the model agreement for each model , which was calculated as the probability of choice correctly predicted by the optimized model parameters for each model  . The results suggested that the RL models with parameter  that account for choice bias  were significantly better at predicting animals’ actual choices than the models that do not account for choice bias and non-RL models  . There was no significant difference in model agreement between RLCK , RLCKγ , and RLCKη . Finally , to visualize how well the RLCK model was at predicting choices of animals with different learning performance , we plotted the simulated choices and actual choices against the matching law  , which dictates that the probability of choice is proportional to the probability of reward . The RLCK model had four parameters , which we then compared across sexes . We found that females had significantly higher learning rate  than males ( Figure 3D , t  = 2 . 02 ) but there was no significant difference across sexes in other parameters ( β: t  = 1 . As groups , males and females were reasonably discriminable in terms of the learning rate  . These results suggested that the difference in the level of exploration between males and females was not due to differences in decision noise , but instead due to differences in learning rate . While females had significantly higher learning rate  than males , they did not obtain more rewards than males . This is because the learning rate parameter in an RL model does not equate to the learning performance , which is better measured by the number of rewards obtained . When the learning rate is maximal  , only the outcome of the immediate past trial is taken into account for the current choice . A higher learning rate in a RL model does not translate to better reward acquisition performance . To illustrate that different combinations of learning rate and decision noise can result in the same reward acquisition performance . This points to potential sex differences in meta-learning that could contribute to the differential strategies across sexes . The results of HMM model and RL models revealed significant sex differences in exploration , paralleled by sex differences in rate of learning . What remains unclear is how sex , explore-exploit states , and reward outcomes all interact together to influence the animals’ choices . The tendency to switch or stay also differed by sex , with females more likely to repeat a previous choice and males more likely to switch ( main effect of sex , p < 0 . There was also a significant interaction effect between sex and outcome  . To understand how reward and reward omission differentially affect choice across sexes , we conducted post-hoc win-stay lose-shift analyses . We found that female mice displayed more win-stay behaviors , indicating that they were more likely than the males to repeat behaviors that produced reward on the previous trial ( Figure 4A , sex X reward interaction , p < 0 . As groups , males and females were reasonably , but not perfectly discriminable in terms of the proportion of win stay choices  . In contrast , male mice tended to shift even when the previous choice was rewarded . There was no significant sex difference in learning from losses ( Figure 4C and t  = 1 . 16 ) , but this did not mean that sex differences in learning were solely due to sex differences in learning from wins . Since males spend more time exploring  and learning from both wins and losses is enhanced during exploration  , males could lose-shift less frequently than females during both exploration and exploitation , yet still lose-shift exactly as much as females because a greater proportion of their choices were exploratory . To dissociate these possibilities , we next examined the effects of exploration and exploitation . Critically , there was also a significant three-way interaction between sex , explore/exploit state , and reward  . This could imply sex-linked differences in reward learning across exploration and exploitation . Males switched less after losses than females within exploratory states ( Figure 4D; post hoc t-test on session averages: sex difference within exploration: p < 0 . 39 ) , though there was no significant sex difference within exploitation ( p = 0 . There was no significant difference in win-stay between males and females during exploit choices ( post-hoc t-test: p = 0 . Together these results suggest that females were better explorers  , whereas males learned slower during exploration but compensated for this learning disadvantage by exploring more frequently . These effects were not driven by idiosyncratic strategic differences between the sexes  . The result suggested that mutual information was higher in females than males , suggesting that females were using more information from the past choice and outcome to make their current decision . Together , these results reinforced our conclusion that females were learning more: utilizing more information from the past trial to make current choices . While males and females had similar performance , they used different latent explore-exploit strategies to learn about the dynamic environment . Males explored more than females and were more likely to ‘get stuck’ in an extended period of exploration before committing to a favored choice . In contrast , females were more likely to show elevated learning during the exploratory period , making exploration more efficient and allowing them to start exploiting a favored choice earlier . Such meta-learning in females permitted learning about the current task  , as well as the structure of the task  . Our major finding that males learned less during exploration and explored for longer is consistent with two explanations . First , males learned more slowly during exploration and as a result , they had to explore for longer to learn which option was worth exploiting . It is difficult to distinguish from behavior alone whether slower learning drives longer exploration , or vice versa , if being stuck in exploration results in slower learning . Neural measures during explore and exploit choices across sexes may help us differentiate learning signals from signals that drive exploration , and whether these signals are sex-different . The Hidden Markov model  has been used to infer trial-by-trial exploration and exploitation in non-human primates  . In our data , we have shown for the first time that the HMM model was able to label a meaningful exploratory state that matches normative definitions of exploration in the mouse model . Reinforcement learning  models have also been used in the past to identify levels of exploration across individuals  . Here , we found that differences in exploration between the sexes were due to differences in learning rates , not due to differences in the decision noise parameter , which is more commonly associated with exploration . While RL models are helpful for understanding cognitive or computational mechanisms , they are limited in their ability to identify when exploration is happening . The HMM model , conversely , provides no insight into mechanisms , but can tell us precisely when exploration is occurring , both in animal behaviors and RL models  . By combining the HMM and RL approaches , we capitalized on the advantages of both frameworks: linking changes in exploration across sexes to underlying mechanisms of exploration . One neuromodulator that is implicated in reinforcement learning , including the transition between exploration and exploitation , and is strongly sex-modulated is dopamine  . This mechanism could contribute to increased reward learning observed in females during exploration . Our previous study implicated PFC in the differences in learning strategy between males and females  . 
Using a reconstituted system with purified proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we show that the ubiquitin ligase Doa10  is a retrotranslocase that facilitates membrane protein extraction . A substrate’s TM segment interacts with the membrane-embedded domain of Doa10 and then passively moves into the aqueous phase . Their unfolding occurs on the luminal side of the membrane by cytoplasmic Cdc48 action . Our results reveal how a membrane-bound retrotranslocase cooperates with the Cdc48 ATPase in membrane protein extraction . Substrates of ERAD can be soluble luminal proteins , or membrane proteins that either need to be moved across or extracted from the ER membrane . This process , termed retrotranslocation or dislocation , requires the AAA protein Cdc48   . The Cdc48 complex is thought to generate a pulling force that drives extraction of polyubiquitinated proteins from the membrane . Apart from the Cdc48 ATPase , membrane proteins of the ERAD machinery are thought to contribute to retrotranslocation . Less is known about retrotranslocation of membrane proteins . Multipass transmembrane proteins such as members of the Derlin family  , Hrd1 and Doa10 have been suggested to act as retrotranslocases for membrane proteins  . To address these questions , we investigated ERAD mediated by the ubiquitin ligase Doa10 from S . Doa10 is a 150 kDa protein with 14 TM segments  . No completely soluble , luminal substrates of Doa10 have been described . The degrons of Doa10 substrates can be cytoplasmic  , or within the TM region  . Through degradation of mislocalized membrane proteins , Doa10 has a role in maintaining organelle identity  . Doa10 works in concert with two ubiquitin conjugating enzymes  , the tail-anchored membrane protein Ubc6 and the soluble cytoplasmic protein Ubc7  . Ubc7 is anchored to the ER membrane by Cue1  . Experiments with soluble cytoplasmic protein fragments showed that Ubc6 and Ubc7 have different roles in the build-up of polyubiquitin chains . Ubc6 initiates ubiquitin chains by transferring the first ubiquitin moiety , whereas Ubc7 extends ubiquitin chains with mainly lysine 48 linkage  . Importantly , Ubc6 is itself an unstable protein and degraded in a Doa10-dependent manner  . Similarly , Ubc6 homologues in plants and mammals have been shown to be unstable and are degraded by the proteasome  . Interestingly , in case of the Arabidopsis thaliana Ubc6 homologue Ubc32 , and the mammalian Ube2J1 , Hrd1 was identified as the ubiquitin ligase involved  . Here , we developed a reconstituted system with purified proteins to investigate the role of Doa10 in membrane protein retrotranslocation . We show that Doa10 is a membrane protein retrotranslocase . Furthermore , we show how Doa10 cooperates with the Cdc48 ATPase in the extraction of proteins with folded luminal domains . We reconstituted purified and fluorescently labeled Doa10 and its substrate Ubc6 into separate liposome populations , together with complementary SNARE proteins  . The tail-anchored  membrane protein Ubc6 was chosen as a model substrate , to limit the number of membrane proteins in our system and thus its complexity . Indeed , mixing of the two liposome sets led to SNARE-mediated co-reconstitution of Ubc6 and Doa10  . This approach ensures that Doa10 and Ubc6 only interact in the phospholipid bilayer , avoiding non-native interactions that can occur when membrane proteins are mixed in the presence of detergents for co-reconstitution . Protease protection experiments showed that Doa10 was reconstituted mostly in the correct orientation  . For Ubc6 , 45% was correctly oriented , another 45% wrong-side out oriented , and a minor fraction not properly membrane inserted  . To test this hypothesis , we incubated Ubc6 liposomes with Get3 , a chaperone for TA proteins  that also interacts with Ubc6  . Liposomes were then immobilized to separate soluble and membrane-bound proteins  . In the presence of Get3 , 43 ± 4% Ubc6 was released from liposomes with co-reconstituted Doa10  . When co-reconstitution of Doa10 with Ubc6 was prevented by inhibiting SNARE-mediated fusion or when Ubc6 liposomes were fused with liposomes lacking Doa10 , only 7–9% of Ubc6 were found in the soluble fraction , representing the fraction of Ubc6 sticking to the outside of the liposome surface . This suggests that Doa10 allows for passive movement of its substrate Ubc6 out of the membrane . Release of Ubc6 from the liposome membrane involves movement of the TM anchor and the luminally encapsulated C-terminus across the lipid bilayer . To directly measure exposure of the C-terminus upon retrotranslocation we used a Ubc6 variant labeled with an AlexaFluor488  dye at the C-terminus . Thus , in the presence of Doa10 , the luminally-encapsulated part of Ubc6 becomes accessible to the antibody over time . Ubc6 and Doa10 need to reside in the same membrane as we observed only minor quenching above background when we used a mutant SNARE that only supports liposome docking  . To identify correctly oriented Ubc6 we used an N-terminal SUMO fusion  and Ulp1 protease . To monitor retrotranslocation , we introduced a TEV protease cleavage site between the C-terminus of Ubc6 and the fluorescent dye . Wrong-side out SUMO-Ubc6 was completely accessible to TEV protease and was cleaved independently of the presence of Doa10 within 5 min . Strikingly , only in the presence of Doa10 , Ulp1-cleaved , and thus right-side out Ubc6 was also accessible to TEV cleavage over longer incubation times , indicating retrotranslocation . In liposomes lacking Doa10 , only a small fraction of Ulp1-cleaved Ubc6 was accessible to TEV protease , corresponding to the not properly reconstituted Ubc6 . Together , Get3 capture , antibody accessibility , and protease protection assays show that Doa10 facilitates movement of the Ubc6 TM across the membrane into the aqueous phase . Thus , Doa10 is a retrotranslocase . Importantly , we also tested if another unrelated multipass membrane protein leads to Ubc6 retrotranslocation by destabilizing the lipid bilayer . Using the same reconstitution protocol as for Doa10 , we co-reconstituted ATP synthase with Ubc6  and then tested for retrotranslocation of Ubc6 using the antibody accessibility assay . Under these conditions , only a minor fraction of Ubc6 becomes accessible to the antibody  . We conclude that retrotranslocation of Ubc6 is not due to some non-specific perturbation of the membrane caused by any multipass TM protein . The observation that traps such as Get3 or the antibody are sufficient to drive retrotranslocation to completion suggests that Doa10 allows membrane-inserted and retrotranslocated soluble states of Ubc6 to exist in an equilibrium  . Get3 or the anti-A488 antibody shift the equilibrium towards the soluble state by binding to retrotranslocated Ubc6 . Thus , traps bind retrotranslocated Ubc6 and prevent reinsertion . In the cell , retrotranslocation requires Cdc48 activity  , suggesting that the pulling force generated by Cdc48 provides the directionality . To test this directly , we next investigated membrane extraction of Ubc6 by Cdc48 . As Cdc48 acts on polyubiquitin chains , we first reconstituted Ubc6 polyubiquitination . Degradation of Ubc6 requires its own E2 activity , the E2 Ubc7 and its adapter , the membrane-anchored Cue1  . Using the fusion system , we co-reconstituted Doa10 and Cue1 with Ubc6 . When we added ubiquitin activating enzyme  , ubiquitin , ATP , and Ubc7 , we observed robust polyubiquitination of Ubc6  . In the absence of Ubc7 or Cue1 , polyubiquitination was abolished , and we observed ubiquitin adducts of lower molecular weight  . Monoubiquitination also occurred in the absence of Doa10  , but was enhanced in its presence  . Kinetics of transfer of the first ubiquitin onto Ubc6 were independent of the presence of Ubc7/Cue1  , suggesting that monoubiquitination is a prerequisite for Ubc7-dependent polyubiquitination . This is indeed the case , as a catalytically inactive Ubc6 mutant  was not ubiquitinated , but an N-terminal fusion of ubiquitin with inactive Ubc6  was a substrate for Ubc7-dependent polyubiquitination  . Together , these results establish that after active site loading of Ubc6 with ubiquitin , Doa10 catalyzes Ubc6-monoubiquitination , followed by Ubc7/Cue1-dependent polyubiquitination  . These results agree with observations made in intact cells and with recombinant soluble fragments of Doa10 and Ubc6  . Furthermore , they indicate that our reconstituted system faithfully recapitulates the in vivo ubiquitination pathway for Ubc6 . Next , we tested for membrane extraction of polyubiquitinated Ubc6 by the Cdc48 ATPase . To this end , we immobilized Doa10/Ubc6 liposomes after the ubiquitination reaction , then incubated with Cdc48 and its co-factors Ufd1 and Npl4  , and analyzed soluble and membrane-bound fractions  . We observed Cdc48- and ubiquitination-dependent extraction of Ubc6  . In the presence of Cdc48/UN , 45 ± 17% of Ubc6 molecules with more than five attached ubiquitin moieties were extracted , compared to 15 ± 4% in the absence of the Cdc48 complex  . Furthermore , ATP hydrolysis by the Cdc48 complex was necessary , as Cdc48E588A was inactive . Polyubiquitin chains were required because we found no extraction above background when ubiquitination was performed in the absence of Ubc7 or less than five ubiquitins were attached  . Similar observations were made when we used Ub-Ubc6C87A instead of WT Ubc6 to increase the efficiency of polyubiquitination  . Together , these observations show that the Cdc48 complex provides the driving force for the extraction of a polyubiquitinated membrane protein . We then tested if those Doa10 variants retrotranslocate Ubc6 using the antibody accessibility assay . Doa10-C behaved similarly to full-length Doa10 , whereas Doa10-N resulted in only minor quenching above background  . These results show that TM segments 3–14 in Doa10 are sufficient to mediate retrotranslocation of Ubc6 . To test for structural elements in Ubc6 relevant for retrotranslocation , we generated mutants in which either its TM anchor or its cytoplasmic part were replaced with the corresponding segments of the TA protein synaptobrevin  . We then tested for retrotranslocation of these mutants using the antibody accessibility assay  . We only observed retrotranslocation of the Ubc6 TM , but not of the Syb TM  . Thus , the identity of the substrate’s TM segment is important for retrotranslocation . Next , we tested how these mutations in the TM domains of Doa10 and Ubc6 affect ubiquitination of Ubc6 . To specifically test for effects on polyubiquitination , we again used Ub-Ubc6C87A , for which the initial ubiquitination steps  are bypassed . Replacement of the Ubc6 TM with the TM of Syb mildly affected polyubiquitination as seen by the emergence of shorter ubiquitin chains in the case of the Syb TM  . To test for effects of TM replacement on monoubiquitination of Ubc6 , we compared Ubc6 and Ubc6SybTM . Doa10-dependent monoubiquitination of Ubc6SybTM was impaired  , while E3-independent autoubiquitination of this mutant was unaffected  . Thus , the Ubc6 TM anchor contributes to the efficient Doa10-dependent ubiquitination of Ubc6 , indicating a more efficient recruitment to Doa10 . Moreover , efficient ubiquitination of Ubc6 requires the TM domain of Doa10 . Ubc6 polyubiquitination by Doa10-N was less efficient compared to full-length Doa10  . This was not due to impaired E3 activity , because co-reconstitution of Doa10-N and Doa10-C together restored ubiquitination to WT levels . Monoubiquitination in the absence of Ubc7 was similarly affected  . We conclude that the Doa10 region that includes TMs 3–14 plays a role in ubiquitination of Ubc6 . Both ubiquitination and retrotranslocation of Ubc6 are sensitive to changes in the membrane-embedded regions of Ubc6 and Doa10 , indicating a specific interaction of Doa10 with the TM domain of Ubc6 . Our results show that the TM domain of Doa10 recognizes substrates and thereby contributes to the specificity of substrate selection . Substrates of Doa10 exhibit a wide range of topologies . We appended a streptavidin binding peptide  to the C-terminus of Ubc6  , and formed a complex with streptavidin  . When we co-reconstituted this complex with Doa10 , we observed no quenching over time upon antibody addition  . When we added biotin , which breaks the high affinity SBP-streptavidin interaction  , we observed Doa10-dependent quenching over time . This was only the case when biotin was used , but much reduced when we used a biotinylated protein , which is still capable of dissociating streptavidin from Ubc6-SBP on the outside of liposomes  , but cannot pass the membrane . Together , this shows that a protein-protein interaction on the luminal side of the membrane , mimicking the presence of a folded domain , acts as an anchor and prevents retrotranslocation of Ubc6 . Liposomes containing Doa10 and Ubc6-SBP in complex with streptavidin were incubated with ubiquitination mix followed by the addition of Cdc48 complex and anti-A488 antibody . Retrotranslocation occurred depending on polyubiquitination and Cdc48 activity  . In the absence of ubiquitin , when Ubc7 was omitted , or when we used the catalytically inactive Cdc48E588A , no fluorescence quenching above background was observed . Importantly , streptavidin remained encapsulated in liposomes in reactions where Ubc6-SBP was extracted  . Thus , Cdc48 action on the cytosolic side of the membrane leads to dissociation of streptavidin from the SBP-tag in the liposome lumen . Our results thus show that Doa10 retrotranslocates a luminal protein segment in an unfolded state . Our results provide evidence that Doa10 contributes to overcoming the energetic barrier for membrane protein extraction . This is demonstrated by passive movement of a tail-anchored membrane protein into the aqueous phase in the presence of Doa10 . We show that , once dissociated from streptavidin , a 57 amino acid long luminal protein segment that includes the SBP-tag is retrotranslocated by Doa10 without markedly affecting retrotranslocation kinetics . Thus , Doa10 can also accommodate these less hydrophobic sequences in the retrotranslocation process . Others suggested that retrotranslocation requires unfolding of luminal protein segments , including reduction of disulfide bonds , prior to retrotranslocation  . Our data show that Doa10 does not accommodate a folded domain during retrotranslocation . It is unclear if chaperone-driven retrotranslocation of Ubc6 in the absence of ubiquitination or Cdc48 action also occurs in the cell . Genetic and biochemical experiments in yeast showed that degradation of TM domain containing Doa10 substrates , including Ubc6 , strictly depends on Cdc48 , Ufd1 and Npl4  . In the case of the strongly hydrophobic , multi-spanning Doa10 substrate Ste6* , fractionation experiments also showed that the Cdc48 complex is required for the retrotranslocation step  . However , these experiments do not exclude the possibility that a relatively mildly hydrophobic protein such as Ubc6 retrotranslocates into the cytosol in a Doa10-dependent , but ubiquitination- and Cdc48-independent manner . Using a reconstituted system , we disentangled different ERAD subreactions , that is substrate recruitment , ubiquitination , retrotranslocation , and membrane extraction . This allowed us to identify two activities of Doa10: retrotranslocase and ubiquitin ligase . The interplay of Doa10 and the Cdc48 complex during the extraction process remains to be further explored . Studies showed that Cdc48 is recruited to the Doa10-complex via Ubx2  . This recruitment is dependent on the ubiquitination activity of Doa10 , suggesting that Cdc48-recruitment requires either autoubiquitination of Doa10 or substrate ubiquitination . Our experimental system is expandable and can be used to explore how Dfm1 , Ubx2 or other factors affect retrotranslocation by Doa10 and Cdc48 . How exactly Doa10 facilitates release of proteins from the membrane is unclear . Structural information on Doa10 is necessary to further elucidate its mechanism of action . We speculate that TM segments access a binding site in Doa10 through a lateral gate . These processes are dependent on ubiquitination and Cdc48  . We propose that membrane-bound retrotranslocases generally contribute to AAA protein-driven extraction of membrane proteins . To express Doa10 in S . cerevisiae , we used a doa10 deletion strain derived from BY4741 . To purify SBP-tagged Doa10 , the membrane fraction was solubilized with 1 . Doa10 was eluted with wash buffer supplemented with 2 mM biotin . Doa10 was further purified by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation . 5 mM TCEP ) . Doa10-containing fractions were concentrated with Amicon Ultra Centrifugal Filters  using a 100 kDa cut-off . The same protocol was used for purification of SBP-tagged Doa10-N and Doa10-C . 5 mM IPTG . Ubc6 and its variants were purified as described  . To purify Ubc6-SBP , an additional purification step was included to ensure that only full-length Ubc6-SBP was purified . 2 mM TCEP , 0 . 03%  n-dodecyl-β-D-maltopyranoside  , Ubc6-SBP was eluted with buffer supplemented with 2 mM biotin . To purify SUMO-Ubc6  , protein was eluted from the Ni-NTA resin with buffer containing 50 mM Tris/HCl pH 8 . 03%  DDM and 500 mM imidazole , and then further purified by size-exclusion chromatography  , as for Ubc6 . 0  , 200 mM NaCl , 10 mM Imidazole ) . 4 , 200 mM NaCl , 1 mM DTT . Uba1 , Ubc7 , Cdc48 and Ufd1/Npl4 were purified as described  . 5 mM IPTG . 1 mM DTT and 0 . 4  , 1 mM DTT , 200 mM sucrose , 2%  OG ) . Protein was eluted with buffer Im15 containing 400 mM imidazole and 5 mM DM . 1 µM Uba1  , 1 µM Ubc7 , 120 µM ubiquitin  and 2 . 5 mM ATP . 1 µM Cdc48  and 0 . To reconstitute Ubc6-SBP into proteoliposomes , Ubc6-SBP was preincubated with a 1 . The reconstitution conditions were otherwise the same as for the co-reconstitution of Ubc6 and t-SNARE  . To assess the orientation of Ubc6-SBP in liposomes  , a TEV protease protection assay was carried out as described above , except that liposomes were diluted 1:5 . To check if biotinylated protein is capable of releasing Streptavidin from Ubc6-SBP , a flotation assay was used . Liposomes containing Ubc6-SBP and t-SNARE were incubated with Streptavidin for 5 min at RT  . Streptavidin and Ubc6-SBP levels were quantified using ImageJ . Intensity values for Streptavidin were normalized to Ubc6-SBP levels and subsequently to the buffer control . To measure extraction of Ubc6-SBP by the Cdc48-complex using the antibody accessibility assay , fusion and ubiquitination reactions were carried out as described above , except that liposomes were diluted 1:5 instead of 1:10 for the fusion reaction . 10 x Cdc48/UN mix contained 2 µM Cdc48  , 2 µM Ufd1/Npl4 as well as 1 mM ATP . To quantify the fraction of extracted Ubc6-SBP , fluorescence traces were processed as described above and the difference between the normalized values of samples with and without Cdc48/UN 30 min after antibody addition was calculated . 3 µM Cdc48/UN complex  . 
Hh controls Ci activity by regulating the processing , activation , and degradation of full-length Ci  . Ci-75 lacks the C-terminal half of Ci-155 , which includes its transcriptional activation domain and an epitope for a monoclonal antibody  commonly used to detect full-length Ci-155  . Ci-75 has a critical role in anterior wing disc cells , silencing transcription of dpp and hh  . First , Ci-155 processing is inhibited , due to titration of Cos2 complexes away from Ci-155 and perhaps also to partial dissociation of PKA , CK1 or GSK3 from Cos2/Fu complexes  . Activated Fu protein kinase is critical for the full activation of Ci-155 . If Ci-155 processing is blocked but there is no Fu kinase activity , Ci-155 is largely maintained in an inactive cytoplasmic form through direct associations with Suppressor of fused ( Su  ) and Cos2  . Loss of Rdx/Hib was initially reported to increase Ci-155 levels at the AP border  and Rdx/Hib can target Ci-155 directly  . Thus , the mechanisms and consequences of Hh-promoted Ci-155 reduction at the AP border remain uncertain . One indisputable consequence is that Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction obscures direct visualization of the pattern of Hh-inhibited Ci-155 processing at the AP border . It is not clear what exactly are the spatial profiles of Ci-155 processing , Ci-155 activation or Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction , to what extent each regulated mechanism contributes independently to Hh morphogen action , or whether these Hh-stimulated changes are inter-dependent . To address these issues , we set out to study how processing-resistant Ci variants affected Ci-155 protein levels and activity . However , we previously found that Ci-155 activation , in contrast to Ci-155 processing , cannot be studied reliably in this way  . Specifically , ci-null animals are very rarely rescued to adulthood using different combinations of ci-Gal4 and UAS-Ci transgenes at a variety of temperatures , and anterior En expression at the AP border was not rescued in ci-null clones by UAS-Ci expressed with the commonly used wing disc driver C765-Gal4 , with transgene expression alone sometimes eliciting a dominant-negative effect on Hh target gene expression  . We therefore developed genomic ci transgenes  and an efficient CRISPR strategy to directly alter the ci gene itself in order to study the full range of variant Ci activities under strictly physiological conditions . In this study , we examined several processing-resistant Ci variants and found that Ci-155 protein was elevated to uniformly high levels in anterior wing disc cells away from the AP border , confirming inhibition of Ci-155 processing . We also used processing-resistant Ci variants to study the effects of inhibition of processing on Ci-155 activation by Fu , as well as the potential roles of PKA and Cos2 in regulating Ci-155 activity in isolation from their well-established role in Ci-155 processing . We found that , in the absence of Hh , PKA inhibits Ci activity independent of the phosphorylation sites that regulate processing and that Cos2 inhibits Ci-155 activity , most likely by binding to the CORD region on Ci-155 . We developed strategies to study Ci expressed at physiological levels from ‘genomic ci’ transgenes  and CRISPR-engineered ci alleles  . A gCi-WT transgene was readily able to rescue homozygous ci null  animals to adulthood , with normal morphology , and behaved almost like a normal ci allele but with marginally lower ci expression and activity in wing discs  . A single copy of crCi-WT in combination with ci94 resulted in efficient development of normal adults and larval wing discs with normal patterns of En , ptc-lacZ and Ci-155 expression in the anterior compartment  . The artifact was also seen with gCi-WT when ci94 was heterozygous  but not when ci94 was homozygous  or when crCi-WT was homozygous  . We also induced homozygous ci94 clones  and confirmed that ci94 encoded no detectable Ci-155 protein  . PKA phosphorylates Ci-155 at amino acids S838 , S856 , and S892 to create recognition sites for both GSK3 and CK1 , which further phosphorylate Ci-155 at a consecutive series of primed phosphorylation sites  . Ci-S849A lacks the last CK1 target site initially primed by PKA phosphorylation of S838 and Ci-P  A has alterations to all three PKA sites  . We therefore used ci alleles with those alterations to determine how loss of processing affects Ci protein levels and activity at normal physiological levels . The wing discs of animals with crCi-S849A or crCi-P  A in combination with ci94 had expanded anterior regions  , as expected because Ci-75 repressor , normally produced from Ci-155 processing , is required to silence dpp expression in anterior cells and ectopic anterior Dpp induces anterior growth  . We also found that these wing discs had strongly elevated Ci-155 levels throughout the anterior , indicating that full-length Ci-155 was not being processed in the absence of the Hh signal , as expected  . Although Ci-155 protein levels were strongly elevated compared to normal for Ci-S849A and Ci-P  A in anterior cells , there was a sharp decline toward the posterior of AP border territory  . It has not previously been seen in isolation because it is normally super-imposed on an unknown profile due to inhibition of Ci processing for wild-type Ci  . Moreover , if the observed pattern of Ci-155 reduction is the same for wild-type Ci  , we can subtract this profile from the observed Ci-155 profile of wild-type Ci to deduce a profile of wild-type Ci-155 processing  . Thus , comparison of the Ci-155 profiles of wild-type and processing-resistant variants provided the best evidence to date of the spatial patterns of graded inhibition by Hh of Ci-155 processing  and of graded , Hh-promoted Ci-155 loss at the AP border  . We also created a ci allele , Ci∆1270–1370 , resembling a C-terminal deletion variant that had previously been found not to undergo processing in assays using cultured cells and UAS-Ci transgenes in wing discs  . Ci∆1270–1370 also had uniformly elevated Ci levels in anterior wing disc cells , consistent with a lack of processing  . However , unlike Ci-S849A and Ci-P  A , this Ci variant induced ptc-lacZ and En only weakly at the AP border  . There was also no decline of Ci-155 protein within AP territory  , consistent with prior evidence that Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction , visualized clearly with the other processing-resistant Ci variants , is only observed at high levels of Hh signaling . To study Hh-promoted Ci-155 reduction further we created an allele encoding a Ci variant with compromised Rdx/Hib binding . The Ci-155 profile included low anterior levels , suggesting normal processing , and declined in the posterior regions of the AP border much like wild-type Ci-155 , showing that Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction remained robust  . The properties of Ci-S3-5 suggest that direct action of Rdx/Hib on Ci-155 does not account for a significant fraction of the reduction of Ci-155 stimulated by the highest levels of Hh signaling . It has also been shown that loss of Su  leads to greatly reduced Ci-155 levels , presumed to be due to enhanced degradation of Su  -free Ci-155 , throughout the wing disc  and it has been conjectured that Hh may activate Ci-155 in part through Su  dissociation from Ci-155 , as suggested by studies of Gli activation  . We examined Ci-155 AP border profiles for wild-type Ci and Ci-S3-5 in the absence of Su  . The results are consistent with the hypothesis that Su  is a key factor in the regulation of Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction at the AP border . This role of Su  was apparent even in the absence of normal Rdx/Hib binding to Ci-155 , suggesting that Su  is not acting principally by competing with Rdx/Hib for Ci-155 binding . Remarkably , the pattern of En and ptc-lacZ induction at the AP border was normal for Ci-S849A and Ci-P  A  , showing that Ci-155 processing is not essential for dose-dependent induction of these Hh target genes . The unchanged profile of pathway activity suggests that the profile of pathway-induced Ci-155 reduction is also likely to be the same for wild-type Ci and processing-resistant Ci variants , supporting the validity of using the latter profile to deduce the processing pattern of wild-type Ci-155  . Ci-S849A and Ci-P  wing discs expressed dpp ectopically in anterior cells , as expected from the absence of Ci-75 repressor  . We found that wing morphology was absolutely normal for flies with both gCi and crCi encoded wild-type Ci or when both encoded processing-resistant Ci-S849A  . Fu kinase activity is not required for Hh to block Ci-155 processing at the AP border  . To clarify the dependence of Ci-155 activation by Fu on Ci-155 processing inhibition we compared the activities of wild-type and processing-resistant Ci variants in smo mutant clones expressing activated GAP-Fu . We found that Ci-S849A or Ci∆1270–1370 , provided by a single crCi allele in trans to ci94 , mediated ptc-lacZ induction in anterior smo GAP-Fu clones to the same level as at the AP border , whereas induction mediated by a single wild-type crCi allele was much lower   . In each case , the activity in clones was compared to the AP border of the same wing discs and reflects the activity of the same source of Ci . Similar results were seen in GAP-Fu clones that retained a functional smo allele , with ptc-lacZ induction of the three processing-resistant variants ( Ci-S849A , Ci-P  A , and Ci∆1270–1370 ) greatly exceeding that of wild-type Ci  . The observed increase could in principle be due to an increased supply of Ci-155 or loss of Ci-75 repressor , or both . When slightly lower levels of wild-type Ci protein were provided by a single gCi transgene instead of a cr-Ci allele , GAP-Fu induced significantly lower levels of ptc-lacZ  , suggesting that the supply of Ci-155 is a key factor . Thus , producing a robust supply of Ci-155 that is not substantially diminished by processing to Ci-75 is important for Fu to elicit high Ci-155 activity . The Ci-155 levels detected within smo GAP-Fu clones were much lower than in surrounding territory in wing discs expressing processing-resistant Ci variants  . The reduction in Ci-155 was similar in magnitude to that observed in posterior regions of the AP border and presumably reflects Ci-155 reduction due to high Hh pathway activity . The fact that Ci-155 clone levels were lower than maximal AP border Ci-155 levels for wild-type Ci  therefore indicates that GAP-Fu does not inhibit processing to the same degree as Hh inhibits processing at the AP border . Thus , although the absolute steady-state levels of Ci-155 for Ci-WT and Ci-S849A in smo GAP-Fu clones were quite similar  , Ci-155 accumulation was limited by largely different mechanisms; significant continued processing for Ci-WT and pathway-stimulated loss for Ci-S849A . The elevated Ci-155 supply produced by processing-resistant Ci variants is , however , not directly evident from measurement of steady-state Ci-155 levels because of subsequent , robust Ci-155 loss in response to high pathway activity . Even though steady-state Ci-155 levels are similar for Ci-WT and Ci-S849A , the proportion of Ci-155 molecules that are active is presumably higher for Ci-S849A in GAP-Fu clones . These observations suggested that PKA and Cos2 inhibit Ci-155 activity in addition to promoting Ci-155 processing , with the potential reservations that the slimb alleles used in some tests may not have fully blocked Ci-155 processing or that Slimb may have additional relevant actions that reduce Ci-155 activity . To test the effects of PKA and Cos2 on the activity of processing-resistant Ci-155 expressed at physiological levels , we induced pka or cos2 clones in wing discs expressing Ci-P  from a single allele in combination with ci94 . The levels of ptc-lacZ induced in equivalent clones in wing discs expressing one allele of wild-type Ci were very similar  , indicating that the activity of Ci-P  reflected the normal response of wild-type Ci to loss of PKA or Cos2 and hence that the three PKA sites that are key for processing  are not required for the regulation of Ci-155 activity by PKA or Cos2 . Induction of ptc-lacZ was substantially lower for pka mutant clones expressing wild-type Ci from a gCi transgene rather than from a cr-Ci allele  , showing that Ci-155 activity elicited by loss of PKA depends on Ci-155 levels . This dependence was previously shown by comparing wild-type animals and ci heterozygotes , and it was further shown that Hh target gene induction depended on the relative stoichiometry of Ci-155 and Su  , suggesting the hypothesis that only Su  -free Ci-155 is active in pka mutant clones  . In all cases ( pka or cos2 mutant clones , Ci-WT or Ci-P  , gCi-WT or crCi-WT ) , the levels of Ci-155 in clones matched or exceeded the highest levels at the AP border , suggesting little or no loss of Ci-155 due to high pathway activity . Thus , in contrast to the situation with GAP-Fu clones , the contribution to activity of a robust supply of Ci-155 that is not processed is reflected in elevated steady-state Ci-155 levels . In summary , the results for Ci-P  clearly indicate that PKA and Cos2 inhibit the activity of Ci-155 that is not processed in the absence of Hh stimulation . Surprisingly , ptc-lacZ induction by Ci-S849A was not clearly higher in pka or cos2 mutant clones than in surrounding cells  . Similar , low levels of ptc-lacZ activity were observed also for Ci-S849A , but not Ci-WT or Ci-P  , in clones with normal PKA and Cos2 activity  . These results suggest that S849 is relevant to the regulation of Ci-155 activity by PKA and Cos2 . Ci∆1270–1370 , which is also not subject to processing , did not induce ptc-lacZ in wild-type anterior cells  or in pka/+ or cos2/+ cells and was not strongly activated by loss of PKA or Cos2 , producing ptc-lacZ expression significantly lower than Ci-WT  . Ci∆1270–1370 also has lower activity than Ci-WT at the AP border of wild-type discs  , but it is strongly activated by GAP-Fu  . To investigate how Cos2 silences Ci-155 activity , we further examined the interactions between these proteins . Measurement of processing through Ci-155 levels and generation of repressor activity from UAS-Ci transgenes in wing discs previously showed that processing was absent only when the zinc finger and CORD domains were both removed  . To test whether Cos2-binding domains might be responsible for inhibiting Ci-155 activity we generated ci alleles lacking CDN , CORD or both regions . We induced pka and cos2 clones in wing discs expressing only Ci∆CORD , Ci∆CDN or Ci∆CDN∆CORD . The level of ptc-lacZ in pka mutant clones was similar for wild-type Ci and Ci∆CDN but it was significantly higher for Ci∆CORD and Ci∆CDN∆CORD; it was also higher for Ci∆CORD than Ci-WT expressed from a gCi transgene  . These results indicate that the presence of the CORD domain reduces Ci-155 activity when Ci-155 is not processed in a pka mutant clone , while the CDN domain appears to have no impact on Ci-155 activity . By contrast , ptc-lacZ levels in cos2 mutant clones were very similar for Ci∆CORD , Ci∆CDN , Ci∆CORD∆CDN , and Ci-WT  . Thus , in clones where Ci-155 is not processed the activity of Ci-155 is increased by loss of either Cos2 or the CORD domain but loss of the CORD domain cannot activate Ci-155 further in a cos2 mutant clone . Moreover , the greater activity of Ci lacking the CORD domain in pka clones than in cos2 clones shows that Ci-155 activation by loss of PKA activity and loss of Cos2-CORD binding can be additive . In wing discs with no additional alterations , Ci∆CORD , Ci∆CDN , and Ci∆CORD∆CDN all supported a near-normal Ci-155 profile , indicating substantially normal regulation of Ci-155 processing , and strong ptc-lacZ expression confined to the AP border  . There was a slight enhancement of anterior Ci-155 levels for Ci∆CORD , which was also evident in a pka heterozygous background  and in a Su  mutant background  . However , there was a very strong contrast between low anterior and high AP border Ci-155 levels of Ci∆CORD∆CDN  , supporting previous evidence that Ci-155 lacking both these Cos2-binding domains is processed very efficiently , perhaps even more efficiently than wild-type Ci , and that Hh blocks processing efficiently  . The experiments reported here , using Ci variants expressed at physiological levels , revealed a dependence on the Cos2-binding CORD domain for inhibiting Ci-155 activity that is not observed for Ci-155 processing or regulation of processing by Hh . The absence of ectopic anterior ptc-lacZ in wing discs expressing Ci∆CORD  suggests that loss of Cos2-CORD association only leads to Ci-155 activity when Ci-155 processing is also inhibited . We found that , unlike Ci∆CORD , Ci-S849A∆CORD in combination with ci94 resulted in wing discs with expanded anterior compartments and ectopic ptc-lacZ throughout the anterior  . Ectopic ptc-lacZ was much stronger than observed for Ci-S849A and was also evident cell autonomously in clones lacking a wild-type Ci transgene within wing discs expressing Ci-S849A∆CORD  . These results confirm that the CORD domain , which is only known to interact with Cos2 , reduces Ci-155 activity when Ci-155 is not processed . Moreover , the observations that induction of ptc-lacZ in response to loss of PKA , Cos2 or the CORD domain depends on the dose of ci and protecting Ci-155 from processing are consistent with the idea that only Su  -free Ci-155 is subject to inhibition by PKA and by Cos2 binding to the CORD domain . If the CORD domain serves only to permit Ci-155 inhibition by binding to Cos2 , it might be expected that Ci∆CORD either has the same activity at the AP border as wild-type Ci , or perhaps greater activity if Hh does not normally fully oppose Cos2-CORD interactions at the AP border . In fact , Ci∆CORD  supported normal levels of ptc-lacZ but reduced En induction  . Wing discs lacking both Fu kinase and Su  had strong ptc-lacZ but no En induction at the AP border for both Ci∆CORD and Ci-WT  , consistent with an earlier report that Ci-155 activation by Fu operates substantially , but not entirely by antagonizing inhibition by Su   . We also found that Ci∆CORD responded to activated GAP-Fu similarly to Ci-WT  . For example , Fu activated by Hh at the AP border may not engage efficiently with Ci-155 complexes in the absence of the CORD domain , leading to a deficit in En induction , but excess GAP-Fu may largely compensate for that deficiency to produce similar activation of Ci-WT and Ci∆CORD . Surprisingly , despite its high constitutive activity , Ci-S849A∆CORD showed markedly lower induction of En at the AP border than Ci∆CORD  , even though Ci-S849A induced En normally  . Since Ci-S849A∆CORD is neither processed nor inhibited by Cos2 , it is presumably incompletely activated by Fu kinase activity , as hypothesized for Ci∆CORD . Moreover , we found here that Ci-P  A and Ci-S849A expressed at physiological levels produced high levels of Ci-155 throughout the anterior with no elevation at the AP border , and that dpp-lacZ was ectopically expressed in anterior cells , as expected if no Ci repressor is present  . Thus , the absence of processing for Ci-P  A and Ci-S849A has been firmly established . We tested only one copy of the ci-S849A and ci-P  A alleles , so it remains possible that two copies might impair patterning . The profile of Hh inhibition of Ci-155 processing had not previously been observed or deduced because wild-type Ci-155 is also subject to Hh-stimulated degradation and potentially other changes that also affect Ci-155 levels . Here , we have derived a clear profile of Hh-stimulated processes that lead to reduced Ci-155 by examining Ci variants that are not subject to processing . Since both Ci-P  and Ci-S849A have the same pathway activity profiles as Ci-WT , measured by ptc-lacZ and En , we assume that the Ci-155 reduction profile observed directly for the processing-resistant variants is very similar for wild-type Ci . We therefore added the observed value of Ci-155 loss at each AP location to the observed Ci-155 profile of wild-type Ci to deduce the normal Ci-155 profile due to processing alone  . Thus , we have derived the first clear visualization of graded inhibition of Ci-155 processing and of graded , pathway-stimulated , Ci-155 loss . Both the mechanism and the purpose of Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction at the AP border remain uncertain . This Ci variant  supported a normal pattern of Hh target gene induction in wing discs and the development of adults with normal wings . The Ci-155 profile was also very similar to wild-type Ci with robust Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction in the posterior part of the AP border . The complete absence of Su  greatly reduces Ci-155 levels but not ci RNA levels throughout wing discs  , leading to the hypothesis that direct binding of Su  to Ci-155 protects Ci-155 from degradation . Consistent with this hypothesis , no reduction of Ci-155 levels close to the source of Hh was apparent in wing discs lacking Su  . The sensitivity of those measurements was , however , limited by the low Ci-155 levels throughout such wing discs . Whether Ci-155 activation by Fu does involve dissociation of Su  and whether that contributes significantly to pathway-stimulated Ci-155 degradation remain to be thoroughly investigated . Initial studies of ci RNA and a lacZ enhancer trap of the ci locus  suggested that third instar larvae have spatially uniform anterior ci transcription and RNA  . However , the steady-state level of Ci-155 in cells with synthetically activated Fu was not significantly higher for processing-resistant variants than for wild-type Ci , presumably because of robust Ci-155 degradation in response to high pathway activity . An analogous circumstance is apparent in posterior regions of the AP border: Ci-155 processing is largely inhibited , Fu kinase and Ci-155 are strongly activated but Ci-155 levels are similar to those in anterior cells because of robust Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction . We used the processing-deficient variant Ci-P  to show that genetic removal of PKA or Cos2 substantially increased Ci-155 activity in the absence of Hh , providing evidence that both PKA and Cos2 inhibit Ci-155 activation in addition to their well-established roles of promoting Ci-155 processing  . We found that removal of the CORD domain of Ci conferred significantly higher activity on a processing-resistant Ci variant and increased the response of otherwise normal Ci to loss of PKA , but not to loss of Cos2 . Ci-155 processing remained efficient in the absence of both CDN and CORD domains , confirming a previous deduction from UAS-Ci transgenes that Cos2 binding to the zinc finger domain of Ci can suffice to promote processing  . Thus , although Ci-155 has three domains that can bind to Cos2 , it appears that they do not contribute equally to regulate Ci-155 processing , inhibition and activation . We did not resolve how PKA inhibits Ci-155 . The finding that loss of PKA increased the activity of Ci-P  shows that the PKA sites used to direct processing  are not essential targets for PKA to inhibit Ci-155 . Ci-155 includes two additional consensus sites at residues 962 and 1006 . When Hh signals , Ci-155 processing is reduced primarily through partial dissociation of Cos2-Ci complexes  and this processing inhibition occurs even in the absence of Fu kinase activity  . In summary , at the AP border of wing discs , Hh inhibits Ci-155 processing , activates full-length Ci-155 and promotes reduction of Ci-155 , most likely substantially through proteolytic degradation  . Processing-resistant Ci variants revealed the profiles of Hh-promoted Ci-155 reduction and Ci-155 processing inhibition  , and showed that Hh can pattern wing discs and wings normally in the absence of regulated processing . 
Our results suggest that dorsal horn circuits that involve excitatory CR neurons are important for the generation and amplification of pain and identify these interneurons as a future analgesic target . Prior work has established that a specific excitatory interneuron population in the deep dorsal horn that transiently express VGLUT3 relays low threshold input to CR neurons  . In this study , we aim to identify and define the postsynaptic circuits engaged by the CR population and determine the functional significance of these neurons for sensory processing and perception . To study spinal CR neuron connectivity and function in sensory processing , CRCre mice  were crossed with loxP-flanked-ChR2-eYFP mice  to generate offspring where ChR2-YFP was expressed in CR neurons  . The spinal distribution of YFP expression in these mice mirrored the distribution of immunoreactivity for CR  , forming a plexus of cell bodies , dendrites and axons that was concentrated in lamina II  . Analysis of immunolabelling patterns confirmed YFP expression was highly localized to the CR-IR population , with 78 . 3 ± 4%  of CR-IR neurons expressing YFP  , and 71 . 5%  of YFP-IR neurons expressing CR  . These data validate spinal interneuron expression of YFP , and by extension ChR2 in the CRCre;Ai32 line , but also imply that a smaller population of cells that express CR transiently during their development , described previously  , are also captured . In voltage clamp , these cells exhibited robust inward photocurrents in response to photostimulation  , which increased with stimulation intensity  . The latency between photostimulation onset and AP discharge  across this sample was 3 . We also assessed whether the subset of CR neurons identified in our previous work as inhibitory interneurons  expressed YFP  . Photostimulation in this subset of YFP expressing neurons evoked larger inward photocurrents than observed in the excitatory population  , which similarly increased with light intensity  . The inhibitory YFP population could also reliably follow repetitive photostimulation at rates up to 10 Hz , but had a shorter recruitment time than excitatory YFP neurons  . Together , these data indicate that this CRCre;Ai32 mouse provides optogenetic control of both excitatory and inhibitory CR lineages  . We found virtually no co-expression of CR-IR in YFP boutons in laminae I-III  , and of YFP in CR-IR terminals  . Together , these data rule out the expression of ChR2 in the central terminals of primary afferents arborising in laminae I-III , and support the conclusion that photostimulation of the spinal cord in our in vitro and in vivo experiments selectively recruits central CR neurons and their processes . Channelrhodopsin-2 assisted circuit mapping  in the CRCre;Ai32 line was used to study the connectivity of CR-ChR2 neurons within dorsal horn microcircuits  . Brief full-field photostimulation  was applied to assess excitatory postsynaptic responses across various dorsal horn populations  . Strikingly , robust synaptic responses were observed in the CR-ChR2 neurons themselves  . Specifically , photostimulation of these neurons produced responses that included an immediate photocurrent and short latency optically evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents  that were blocked by bath applied CNQX  . 5% of these recordings  , indicating a high degree of interconnectivity in the CR-ChR2 population . 5 ms  to the average AP recruitment delay for excitatory CR-ChR2 neurons  , allowing for AP conduction and synaptic delay . The distribution of oEPSC latencies in CR-ChR2 neurons suggested they receive both a direct and delayed input following photostimulation  . CRACM was also applied while recording from neurons lacking ChR2-YFP , either within or dorsal to the YFP plexus  , showing that both plexus  and dorsal  populations received CR-ChR2 neuron input  . Thus , activation of CR-ChR2 neurons produces excitation that unsurprisingly arrives first on nearby populations within the YFP plexus , before it reaches neurons dorsal to this region . In addition , interconnectivity of CR-ChR2 neurons indicates they form an excitatory network likely to enhance activity within the dorsal horn when recruited . The impact of CR-ChR2 photostimulation on the activity of postsynaptic populations was also assessed in current clamp  . Responses were assessed in neurons within the YFP plexus and dorsal to this region , but not CR-ChR2 neurons , as they were directly activated by photostimulation . The incidence of each response was similar among the YFP plexus and dorsal recordings  including excitatory  and inhibitory  responses , with few neurons responding with AP discharge  . Given the appearance of inhibitory responses in the above recordings , and the likelihood that inhibitory CR-ChR2 neurons were also activated by photostimulation , CRACM was also used to asses inhibitory connections within the dorsal horn  . The same photocurrent subtraction protocol was applied for oIPSC recordings from CR-ChR2 as above for oEPSCs  . To determine the contribution of direct and delayed circuits to this response , a latency window for oIPSC components to be considered direct was calculated  using the inhibitory CR-ChR2 neuron recruitment latency of 2 . Delayed oIPSCs components dominated in neurons within the YFP plexus  , whereas a similar mix of direct and delayed oIPSC components were recorded in excitatory CR-ChR2 neurons and neurons dorsal to the YFP plexus  . Comparison of oIPSCs recorded before and after bicuculline block assessed the contribution of GABA and glycine to these photostimulation responses . Glycine dominant responses were rare , and not observed at all in excitatory CR-ChR2 neurons , with remaining cells receiving mixed inhibition . Together , these data show that in addition to a range of excitatory circuits recruited by ChR2 photostimulation , a widely distributed pattern of inhibition is also activated by CR-ChR2 neuron recruitment . Short latency direct inhibition likely comes through direct photostimulation of inhibitory CR-ChR2 neurons , whereas polysynaptic pathways recruited by photostimulation of excitatory CR-ChR2 neurons are best placed to produce longer latency indirect inhibitory responses . The interconnectivity of the CR-ChR2 population and multicomponent responses to brief photostimulation  suggested these neurons might be capable of producing sustained activation within dorsal horn circuits . To test this hypothesis , photostimulation duration was extended  and spontaneous EPSC  frequency before and immediately following photostimulation were compared  . Recordings in spinal slices from CRCre;Ai32 animals  targeted CR-ChR2 -expressing neurons due to their coupling and predominantly excitatory phenotype , but also sampled other unidentified dorsal horn neurons , and some inhibitory CR-ChR2 neurons  . These recordings exhibited a range of pre-stimulation and post-stimulation sEPSC frequency relationships , however , post-stimulation sEPSC frequency was dramatically increased in a subset of excitatory CR-ChR2 neurons  . Using this criterion one third of the excitatory CR-ChR2 cells  exhibited increased post-stimulation sEPSC frequency  . In contrast , poststimulation sEPSC frequency did not increase in unidentified dorsal horn neurons  , or inhibitory CR-ChR2 neurons  . While these potentiated responses could result from the specific connectivity patterns in the CR-ChR2 network , they may also relate to direct activation of photocurrents in these neurons , or the magnitude of evoked oEPSC during photostimulation . Peristimulus histograms  compared CR-ChR2 neuron responses that exhibited increased post-stimulation sEPSC frequency  with CR-ChR2 neurons that exhibited similar baseline sEPSC frequency but no poststimulation increase  . To further clarify the postsynaptic targets of photostimulated CR-ChR2 neurons , we deeply anesthetized CRCre;Ai32 mice  and applied direct photostimulation  to the L4/5 spinal segment  . Importantly , no cFos-IR nuclei were found in control animals where identical photostimulation parameters were used in CReGFP mice  , confirming the specificity of photostimulation evoked Fos expression in CRCre;Ai32 mice . Of the cFos-IR profiles , approximately one quarter expressed YFP  and likely reflect that these were activated directly by photostimulation . The remaining cFos-IR neurons represented postsynaptic targets of the CR-ChR2 cells . Approximately 10% of these cells were NK1R-expressing lamina I neurons  . In these cells , immunolabelling for NK1R was confined to the cell membrane and showed no evidence of internalisation , from which we conclude that activation of these putative projection neurons results from glutamatergic synaptic input derived from photostimulated excitatory CR-ChR2 interneurons or their postsynaptic targets . Immunolabelling for SOM was present in ~14% of cFos-IR cell profiles  , however , approximately half of these also expressed YFP  , consistent with the expected overlap between SOM and CR in lamina II neurons  . Finally , 22% of cFos-expressing cells following spinal photostimulation were identified as inhibitory interneurons  , by the expression of Pax2+ immunolabelling  , of which only ~10% of these cells expressed YFP  . This confirms that inhibitory CR-ChR2 neurons are also recruited during the spinal photostimulation protocol , but that these cells are in the minority . By extension , a more substantial population of inhibitory interneurons is also engaged by activation of the excitatory CR-ChR2 population . The remaining cFos-expressing cells are most likely to be other unidentified populations of excitatory interneurons due to their absence of Pax2 labelling and may include excitatory CR+ neurons that did not express ChR2-YFP  . 4% of all CR-ChR2 neurons  , 21% of all NK1R+ neurons  , 5 . 5% of all SOM+ neurons  , 0% of all PKCγ+ neurons  , and 15 . 3% of all Pax2+ neurons  . Taken together , these data show that activation of the CR-ChR2 network selectively recruits a diverse range of excitatory interneurons , inhibitory interneurons , and projection neurons . Current models for dorsal horn microcircuitry place CR neurons in a polysynaptic circuit that signals through SOM neurons to activate lamina I projection neurons and initiate pain signalling  . Our data is compatible with this model since CR-ChR2 photostimulation evoked oEPSCs in dorsal horn neurons , including populations located superficial to the YFP plexus . This was verified further in our activity mapping data as photoactivation of CR-ChR2 cells produced robust cFos expression in CR-IR neurons , SOM-expressing interneurons , and putative NK1R-expressing projection neurons in lamina I  . Since extensive co-localisation of CR and SOM has been reported in laminae I-III previously  , it remained to be clarified how CR network activity reached projection neurons . Tissue from these animals  was processed for immunocytochemistry to identify putative lamina I projection neurons using NK1R expression , excitatory synapses using Homer1 immunolabelling , and SOM expression to help assess CR only , SOM only , or CR/SOM inputs  . Using this strategy , ~30%  of all Homer puncta on NK1R dendrites were derived from CR terminals , 4 . 2%  were associated with CR only inputs , and 27 . 3%  were associated with boutons expressing both CR and SOM . 1%  were SOM only , and 27 . 3% CR/SOM . Together , these data confirm that CR interneurons provide substantial monosynaptic excitatory input to NK1R neurons , and that most of these terminals also express SOM . We conclude that CR and SOM interneurons represent the principal source of excitatory input to NK1R neurons in lamina I . Given clear neuroanatomical evidence that CR neurons provided input to lamina I projection neurons  above , the functional impact of these connections was assessed . Under these conditions , brief full-field photostimulation  applied to activate CR-ChR2 neurons produced oEPSCs in PNs that were blocked by bath applied CNQX  . oEPSCs were observed in 65% of these recordings  indicating clear connectivity between the ChR2-YFP population and PNs  . Consistent with some PNs receiving convergent input from several CR-ChR2 neurons , multiple oEPSC responses exhibited slower rise times and half widths than single oEPSCs  . In contrast , both oEPSC response types occurred at similar post-photostimulation latencies  and together , these short latencies were comparable to those observed in other untargeted recordings dorsal to the YFP plexus and CR-ChR2 recordings  . The strength of CR-ChR2 to PN connections was also assessed in current clamp where photostimulation-mediated oEPSPs were capable of evoking an action potential in ~70% of PNs  , with a reliability of 0 . Together , these results demonstrate a functionally relevant monosynaptic connection exists between CR-ChR2 neurons and PNs , and is capable of recruiting PN discharge . In light of this connectivity , the impact of repeated CR-ChR2 neuron photostimulation was also assessed to determine if this pathway supported the enhanced signalling seen in the ChR2-YFP network  . The functional significance of CR-ChR2 neuron connectivity and activation within the dorsal horn was tested by chronically implanting a fibre optic probe over the surface of the dorsal spinal cord in CRCre;Ai32 mice for subsequent photostimulation . Following surgery , a cohort of CRCre;Ai32  animals was assessed , and shown to exhibit clear nocifensive behaviour initiated at the onset of photostimulation  and outlasting the photostimulation period  . In contrast , photostimulation in a cohort of fibre optic probe implanted CReGFP  animals did not produce photostimulation time-locked behaviours , although random grooming bouts were occasionally observed  . The intensity and duration of these responses increased with photostimulation intensity until 10 mW and then stabilised above this  . Given the sustained nature of post-photostimulation nocifensive responses , the potential for subsequent responses to be enhanced by prior CR-ChR2 activation was investigated by delivering two successive 10 s bouts of photostimulation , separated by 120 s  . Under these conditions the second photostimulation response was significantly longer lasting than the first  . This mirrored the observation that some CR-ChR2 neurons received sustained levels of excitatory signalling for a period following recruitment in vitro  , and this signal reaches lamina I PNs  . To further explore summation of the CR-ChR2 network activity , short trains of subthreshold photostimuli  were delivered at two frequencies  . Photostimulation intensities that did not evoke behavioural responses during 1 s of stimulation  were first established for each animal  . This may be explained by the altered photostimulation frequency also changing the total stimulation duration . Regardless , these multiple stimulation paradigms reinforce the ability of CR-ChR2 neuron networks to retain subthreshold and suprathreshold excitation within an integration window that can influence the characteristics of subsequent responses . Another pronounced feature of the CR-ChR2-evoked photostimulation response was the dynamic nature of the area targeted for nocifensive behaviour beyond the initial  body region . Thus , in addition to sustaining excitation beyond photostimulation , optogenetic activation of the CR-ChR2 neuron network produced sensory signalling that spread to adjacent dermatomes before subsiding . Although CR-ChR2 photostimulation responses appeared nociceptive ‘pain-like’ in quality , additional analysis was needed to support this interpretation . First , Fos-protein activity mapping assessed the distinct distribution of cFos-expressing neurons in the brains of CRCre;Ai32  versus CReGFP  mice following a single bout of spinal photostimulation  . This reinforces the nocifensive nature of the circuits activated during CR-ChR2 photostimulation . While the above data shows CR-ChR2 photostimulation was sufficient to evoke responses consistent with nociceptive pain , this did not confirm necessity of the CR-ChR2 network in sensory-evoked responses . Thus , a photoinhibition approach was also employed by crossing CRCre mice with loxP-flanked-NpHR3YFP mice  to generate offspring where halorhodopsin  was expressed in CR+ neurons  . To validate YFP expression in CR cells , we assessed the incidence of co-expression of these markers in spinal neurons in laminae I and II  . 2%  of YFP-expressing cells were immunopositive for CR  , and that 94 . 1%  of CR-IR cells expressed YFP  . The relative potency and valence of spinal photostimulation was assessed in a group of CRCre;Ai32 animals  with spinal fibre optic probes implanted that subsequently underwent conditioned place aversion testing  . Baseline preference for each animal was determined in a two-arena enclosure without photostimulation , and the preferred arena was then assigned for photostimulation  . learned avoidance of the photostimulation arena  . Importantly , no photostimulation was delivered during this CPA testing , instead assessing the aversive nature of photostimulation recall . Thus , spinal photostimulation of the ChR2 population produced a potent sensory experience with a strong and lasting negative valence . Finally , to assess a potential role for the CR-network in pathological pain processing , in vivo photostimulation responses were assessed in a group of CRCre;Ai32 animals  before and after spared nerve injury surgery  . Importantly , this analysis only included animals with photostimulation responses directed to the hind paw including the spared  territory . Regarding in vivo photostimulation , these animals exhibited robust nocifensive responses at baseline  that were comparable to previous experiments . Following SNI , however , the duration of photostimulation responses was significantly elevated  implicating the CR network in enhanced dorsal horn excitability under neuropathic conditions  . In contrast , photostimulation responses remained stable in sham-operated CRCre;Ai32 animals  . Our in vitro electrophysiology showed that CR-ChR2 neurons exhibit diverse functional excitatory synaptic connections within the dorsal horn . A surprising finding in this work was the high degree of interconnectivity between CR-ChR2 cells , establishing an excitatory network that when recruited , could substantially enhance excitation in the dorsal horn  . This is in line with observations using viral-mediated excitatory DREADD-expression to activate CR neurons selectively  . This work showed that CNO exposure activated a substantial proportion of transduced DREADD-positive CR neurons  , however , an additional large proportion of DREADD-negative CR neurons  were also activated . This observation supports the capacity of CR neuron recruitment to drive activation of the wider CR network . This interconnectivity among excitatory interneurons suggests the CR-ChR2 network we have targeted here represents a potent source of excitatory signaling that could amplify afferent input in the dorsal horn . CRACM experiments also showed that input from CR-ChR2 neurons is widespread , with other neurons located in the YFP-expressing plexus as well as more dorsal populations , receiving short and longer latency input following CR-ChR2 activation . These features are consistent with CR-ChR2 neurons initiating excitation that converges on projection neurons . For example , under pathological conditions CR neurons have been reported to receive low-threshold  input via a population of lamina III neurons that transiently express VGLUT3 and relay this information into nociceptive circuits  . This work also used cFos labelling and DREADD silencing of various populations to propose a circuit connecting CR neurons to projection neurons in lamina I via polysynaptic connections that included an interposed population of SOM interneurons . In support of this proposal , we find approximately 30% of all excitatory input to lamina I projection neurons are derived from axons of CR interneurons  , of which a significant proportion also express SOM  . These findings demonstrate that CR neurons provide considerable direct input to the lamina I projection neuron population , and when considered alongside the CR-ChR2 network interconnectivity , these have the potential to greatly influence spinal sensory outputs . Our findings are in agreement with previous studies which have reported that CR interneurons activate SOM-expressing interneurons , but not those that express PKCγ  , and we also demonstrate that CR-expressing interneurons can recruit lamina I projection neurons either directly , or via polysynaptic circuit incorporating SOM neurons  . Consistent with these views , our cFos mapping also supports a role for the CR network in engaging inhibitory interneurons . These inhibitory circuits may be important for modality coding by suppressing selective populations while the CR circuits are active  . We show that CR network evoked inhibition is widespread in the dorsal horn , with a range of latencies that indicate both direct and indirect circuits are engaged  . Direct inhibition is not surprising given we have previously described a small inhibitory CR population  , and show here that they express ChR2 in the CRCre;Ai32 animals used . These neurons are directly activated during spinal photostimulation and therefore provide the only source of short latency monosynaptic inhibition . In contrast , secondary recruitment of other inhibitory populations by the excitatory CR neurons produces longer latency polysynaptic inhibition . Similarly , GABAergic enkephalin neurons have recently been implicated in gating mechanical pain  and thus may also contribute to CR network evoked inhibition . The behavioral consequence of experimentally activating CR circuits in vivo is striking , with a targeted and multifaceted nocifensive response  directed to dermatomes predicted by the location of fiber optic implant and initiated upon photostimulation . This response profile is consistent with our previous work showing that CR neurons respond maximally to noxious mechanical stimulation , with some activation also resulting from hindpaw injection of capsaicin  . CR neuron photostimulation responses also resemble reports from two other groups that have applied spinal photostimulation to populations of dorsal horn neurons  . The most relevant assessed excitatory somatostatin neurons , reporting photostimulation produced abrupt nocifensive behavior and a conditioned place aversion  . This conserved behavioral profile is again consistent with the overlap in somatostatin and CR populations studied and the postsynaptic position of somatostatin neurons relative to the CR population . An additional observation in the somatostatin photostimulation study was the presence of itch related behaviors . We confirmed the nociceptive nature of CR photostimulation by demonstrating selective cFos labelling in distinct pain processing brain nuclei as well as sensitivity of the photostimulation responses to morphine  . It is worth noting that a small number of inhibitory CR neurons were also activated during photostimulation  . Taken together , these results support the well-established role of inhibitory populations in suppressing spinal nociceptive signaling and suggest the recruitment of some inhibitory CR neurons in our experiments will have had minimal effects on the robust behavioral outcomes attributed to the excitatory CR population . Three behavioral observations during CR neuron photostimulation warrant further discussion . First , behavioral responses persisted well beyond the termination of photostimulation  . This observation was paralleled by a sustained increased in spontaneous excitatory activity in CR neurons and LI projection neurons under extended in vitro photostimulation conditions , indicating this excitatory network can sustain excitatory activity following recruitment . Second , behavioral responses to repeated photostimulation were enhanced , indicating short-term plasticity within the CR network  . Similarly , though not examined here , photostimulation responses imply that the CR network may also facilitate a rostrocaudal spread of activation . Specifically , CR neurons in this region , as well as the majority of their targets , had an excitatory phenotype and were coupled by excitatory synapses  . In vitro recordings of enhanced synaptic signaling in CR neurons and LI projection neurons following photostimulation  certainly support this explanation , however , future work will be required to assess the relative importance of these observations to extended behavioural responses . The results from this study confirm that CR neurons form an excitatory dorsal horn network that contributes to spinal pain signaling and can amplify pain signals in the absence of peripheral input . This capacity is clearly demonstrated in the nocifensive responses elicited by spinal photostimulation . Optogenetic studies were carried out on mice derived by crossing Calb2-IRES-cre  with either Ai32  or Ai39  to generate offspring where ChR2/YFP or NpHR/YFP was expressed in CR+ cells  . To identify CR-ChR2/CR-NpHR+ neurons , which expressed YFP , slices were viewed under fluorescence using a FITC filter set . CR+ neurons were concentrated within lamina II of the dorsal horn , as described previously  , and is easily identified as a plexus of YFP fibres and soma under fluorescent microscopy . The parasagittal slicing approach allowed easy differentiation of the two CR populations we have previously described  . Specifically , the CR excitatory population exhibits a restricted dendritic profile , whereas less common inhibitory CR neurons possess extensive rostro-caudal projecting dendritic arbours . Recordings from excitatory versus inhibitory ChR2-YFP neurons were distinguished using their morphology in the parasagittal slice and distinct electrophysiological profiles  . Combinations of neutral density filters were used to reduce photostimulation intensity  . To assess the ability and reliability of photostimulation to evoke AP discharge in ChR2-YFP neurons the recording mode was switched to current clamp and brief photostimuli  were delivered at multiple frequencies 5 Hz , 10 Hz and 20 Hz  . We then used channelrhodopsin-2 assisted circuit mapping  to characterise the connectivity of ChR2 neurons within the dorsal horn . The postsynaptic circuits receiving input from ChR2-YFP neurons were characterized by delivering photostimulation  every 12 s during patch clamp recordings and assessing current responses for photostimulation associated synaptic input . These recordings were made from ChR2-YFP neurons as well as 3 populations of neurons that did not show YFP expression . These populations were classified relative to the distinct YFP plexus within lamina II as either: 1 ) Plexus - within the YFP plexus; 2 ) Dorsal - dorsal to YFP plexus; or 3 ) Projection neurons - dorsal to the YFP plexus and retrogradely labelled  . The response of these populations was also assessed during prolonged photostimulation using two stimulus paradigms: 1 ) a 2 s continuous photostimulation  ; and 2 ) a 1 s photostimulation  . Excitatory and inhibitory photostimulation-evoked synaptic currents elicited by brief photostimulation , hereafter termed optical postsynaptic currents  , were captured episodically and averaged  . Response latency was also measured on averaged records , as the time between the onset of photostimulation and onset of the oEPSC/oIPSC . To differentiate direct  input from indirect  response components the photostimulation recruitment time for CR-ChR2+ neurons was determined as the latency between the onset of photostimulation and the onset of AP discharge . Thus , windows were set for oEPSCs and oIPSCs to be considered monosynaptic by adding the photostimulation recruitment time , conduction and synaptic delays  of photostimulation recruitment time . For longer photostimulation paradigms both oEPSCs and spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents  were detected using a sliding template method  . To isolate oEPSCs and oIPSCs in CR-ChR2 neurons , the photocurrents were first subtracted using a pharmacological approach . In this case , the isolated photocurrent  was subtracted from the photostimulation responses under each drug condition  . The postsynaptic circuits targeted by CR+ neurons were assessed by delivering spinal photostimulation to anaesthetised CRCre;Ai32 animals  and then processing spinal cords for Fos-protein and a range of additional neurochemical markers . Unilateral photostimulation  was then delivered to the exposed spinal cord by positioning an optic fiber probe  above the spinal cord surface using the stereotaxic frame . Following photostimulation animals remained under anaesthesia for a further 2 hr for subsequent comparison of Fos expression in neurochemically defined DH neurons . Analysis of CR+ neuron input to putative projection neurons was undertaken in tissue from CRCre;Ai34 mice that selectively labelled CR+ axon terminals with tdTomato . The patch cord was attached to a high intensity LED light source  and photostimulation  was delivered . In some experiments the testing conditions were altered to address specific aspects of the photostimulation response . The potential for a peripheral signalling component to photostimulation responses was tested by characterizing baseline  photostimulation responses  , and then repeating photostimlation in these animals following local anaesthesia of the hindpaw  , and vehicle  injection . To assess the functional consequences of repeated spinal photostimulation , animals  received 2 photostimuli delivered two mins apart . To test the nociceptive nature of spinal photostimulation , animals  were administered morphine 30 min prior to photostimulation . Animals first underwent two photostimulation intensities  with no morphine to determine baseline responses . Counts were made on four sections from each CRCre;Ai32 and CReGFP mouse  taken from the side contralateral to spinal photostimulation  . All in vivo photostimulation-induced behaviour was analysed using JWatcher v1 . Behavioural responses were encoded from the video recordings of photostimulation including 5 min pre- and post-photostimulation , played back at half-speed  . Conditioned place aversion  testing was used to assess the aversive nature of CR-ChR2 photostimulation . The chamber where an animal spent the most time was deemed the preferred side , and subsequently designated ‘photostimulation on’ while the non-preferred side was designated ‘photostimulation off’ . Animals then underwent 4 × 20 min trials over 2 days  , with the condition that entry into the ‘photostimulation on’ chamber triggered photostimulation  until the animal returned to the ‘photostimulation off’ chamber . In these tests animals were allowed to freely move around the CPA apparatus for 10 mins with no photostimulation . Paired t-tests compared sEPSC frequency before and after photostimulation in CR+ neuron and projection neuron populations . 
To understand how RAB23 regulates skull development , we generated Rab23-deficient mice that survive to an age where skeletal development can be studied . Along with polysyndactyly , these mice exhibit premature fusion of multiple sutures resultant from aberrant osteoprogenitor proliferation and elevated osteogenesis in the suture . FGF10-driven FGFR1 signaling is elevated in Rab23-/-sutures with a consequent imbalance in MAPK , Hedgehog signaling and RUNX2 expression . Our results suggest a novel role for RAB23 as an upstream negative regulator of both FGFR and canonical Hh-GLI1 signaling , and additionally in the non-canonical regulation of GLI1 through pERK1/2 . RAB23 has 35–40% sequence homology with other RABs , it localizes to the plasma membrane and is proposed to regulate cargo internalization and relocation in the cell  . However , direct ciliary function of RAB23 is unclear as cilium length and function are reported normal in Rab23-/- mice  . FGF signaling pathway members have not been linked to RAB23-mediated trafficking . However , study suggests that RAB23 resides in the plasma membrane and proposed to be involved in endocytosis  . These overlapping skeletal phenotypes caused by mutations in FGFRs , Hh regulators and RAB23 are suggestive of common etiological mechanisms . Interestingly , RAB23 regulates GLI1 in a Su  -dependent manner  and GLI1-positive cells have been identified in the suture as the main source of mesenchymal stem cells that plays crucial role in suture patency  . The aim of this study was to determine the role of RAB23 during intramembranous bone development . Previously , it has not been possible to study skeletal development in RAB23 deficient mice due to their early lethality . Here , we generated RAB23 deficient  mice that survived until embryonic day  18 . 5 , and this allowed us to investigate how RAB23 regulates bone formation . Similar to Carpenter syndrome patients , RAB23 deficient mice exhibited polysyndactyly and multiple craniosynostoses . We show that disruption of Rab23 leads to an upregulation of Pitx2 , Fgf10 and Fgfr1b expression , decreased p38 and enhanced pERK1/2-RUNX2 signaling along with elevated osteoprogenitor proliferation . During in vitro culture , inhibition of elevated pERK1/2 normalized osteoprogenitor proliferation , corrected the aberrant GLI1 and RUNX2 expressions , and rescued the lambdoid suture fusion . Our results suggest a novel role for RAB23 as an upstream regulator of both FGF10-pERK1/2 and Hh-GLI1 , and the additional regulation of GLI1 by pERK1/2 , to coordinate the initiation of osteogenesis . Rab23 open brain 2  homozygous mutant mice did not produce RAB23 protein in primary cells , analyzed by western blot  and will therefore be referred to as Rab23-/- mice . Rab23-/- C3 Heb/FeJ mice , generated through an ENU screen , survive until E12 . After six generations , the survival of the Rab23-/- homozygote embryos were prolonged to E18 . Rab23-/- mice at embryonic day E18 . The prevalence of premature suture fusion in Rab23-/- mice represented as percentage and only parieto-temporal sutures showed bi-lateral suture fusion  in all the samples  . Along with craniosynostosis , Rab23-/- mice showed skeletal patterning defects in the forelimbs and hindlimbs . Rab23-/- mice showed pre-axial polydactyly  of the forelimb and preaxial polysyndactyly  of the hindlimbs  . Polydactyly and craniosynostosis were observed  in all Rab23-/- samples examined . 5 , 5% of Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures exhibited unilateral suture fusion  . Compared to Wt samples  , unfused Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures showed abnormal bony protrusions from parietal bones toward interparietal bone  or ectopic bones in the lambdoid suture  . At this stage , Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures were narrower than Wt lambdoid sutures  . As 95% of Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures were consistently patent at E18 . 5 they were chosen as a model to study the role of RAB23 in osteogenesis . Rab23-/- mice die neonatally , therefore , analysis of Rab23-/- lambdoid suture beyond the E18 . Wt and patent Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures harvested for culture at E18 . 5 , Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures fused predictably after 3 days of culture  . Rab23 mRNA expression was analyzed in whole calvaria and tissue sections by in situ hybridization and protein expression by immunohistochemical staining and western blotting . Rab23 was expressed in suture mesenchyme with the strongest signal in interfrontal , sagittal and coronal sutures and parietal bone side of the lambdoid suture  . Analysis of tissue sections revealed Rab23 expression in the osteogenic fronts of the calvarial sutures and throughout the sutural mesenchyme  . RAB23 was expressed in the lambdoid sutural osteogenic fronts and in the underlying cartilage . Co-expression with RUNX2 confirmed the cells in the osteogenic front to be osteoprogenitor or osteoblast  . The Rab23 expression pattern was consistent with the phenotype of synostosed calvarial sutures observed in the Rab23-/- mice  . 5 Wt calvarial frontal , sagittal and lambdoid sutures along with their osteogenic fronts confirmed the presence of RAB23 protein in the suture  . To investigate differentially expressed genes between Wt and Rab23-/- calvaria and to find candidate genes responsible for the craniosynostosis in the RAB23-deficient mice , we performed a microarray-based gene expression analysis of whole Wt and Rab23-/- calvaria samples excluding the skin and underlying brain at E15 . Our analysis revealed 223 significantly differentially expressed genes between the Wt and Rab23-/- calvaria   . Fgf10 was found to be overexpressed in the microarray in Rab23-/- calvaria  . Fgf10 expression was elevated in whole calvarial mesenchyme , lambdoid sutural mesenchymal tissue and in calvaria derived  mesenchymal cells at E15 . Our microarray analysis also showed that the transcription factor Pitx2 was elevated in Rab23-/- calvaria  . We found that Pitx2 was overexpressed both in the Rab23-/- calvaria and in Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures  . Pitx2 overexpression was further observed in Rab23-/- calvaria by whole-mount in situ hybridization in and surrounding the interparietal bone  . We assessed the expression of FGF10-specific receptors Fgfr1b , Fgfr2b , also Fgfr2c in Wt and Rab23-/- lambdoid sutural mesenchymal tissue . Our analysis showed elevated Fgfr1b expression and a non-significant upregulation of Fgfr2b in Rab23-/- samples  . FGFR1 protein levels were found to be elevated in Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures compared to Wt samples when analyzed by western blotting  and by immunohistochemical staining  . To test whether the upregulation of Fgfr1b and Fgfr2b expression was due to the high levels of FGF10 ligand present in the Rab23-/- lambdoid suture , we isolated E15 . 5 wild-type calvaria derived  mesenchymal cells and treated them with exogenous FGF10  for 3 hr . FGF signaling has been shown to activate MAPK signaling pathway subtypes pERK and p38 in suture morphogenesis and osteoblast differentiation  . In Rab23-/- lambdoid suture , we found decreased p38 and elevated pERK1/2 and RUNX2 expressions compare to Wt samples  . To test whether the upregulation of RUNX2 expression was due to the high levels of FGF10 present in the Rab23-/- lambdoid suture , we isolated E15 . 5 Rab23-/- calvaria derived  mesenchymal cells and treated them with exogenous FGF10  for 2 and 4 hr . Since ERK1/2 signaling regulates Hh and GLI expression , and RAB23 is a known negative regulator of Hh signaling  , we further assayed Hh , Gli1 , Gli2 , and Gli3 transcripts extracted from Wt and Rab23-/- lambdoid sutural mesenchyme at E15 . As FGF10-pERK1/2 signaling and RUNX2 are known to regulate suture osteoprogenitor proliferation  , we assessed co-expression of EdU and RUNX2 in the WT and Rab23-/- lambdoid suture . We analyzed the proliferation in Wt and Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures  . EdU pulsed Rab23-/- samples showed more proliferating cells in the osteogenic fronts compared to Wt  . In addition , increased level of cell proliferation was observed in Rab23-/- derived mouse embryonic fibroblast  cells  . Rab23-/- calvaria derived cells also had an elevated number of total cells at different passages  when compared to Wt calvaria derived cells  . Increased proliferation in the sutures can result in a larger pool of osteoprogenitor cells and enhanced osteogenesis  . Taken together , this data shows that RAB23 is needed to repress proliferation in undifferentiated mesenchymal cells . Our data suggest that Rab23-/- lambdoid suture undergoes fusion through aberrant FGF signaling , specifically by activating pERK1/2 signaling , RUNX2 and enhanced cell proliferation of osteoprogenitor cells . To test this , we aimed to normalize the Rab23-/- lambdoid suture by inhibiting the activation of MEK1/2 , a downstream component of the MAPK-ERK1/2 signaling pathway by using MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126 . 5 Wt and Rab23-/- whole calvaria in osteogenic growth medium up to 72 hr . Half of the Rab23-/- calvaria were treated with U0126 and half of the Rab23-/- calvaria samples were untreated  . None of the untreated Rab23-/-  and 84 . 34% of U0126 treated Rab23-/-  lambdoid sutures were rescued  . To confirm whether bones were fused or not , Wt , U0126 treated and untreated Rab23-/- samples were further analyzed in tissue sections and by µ-CT  . None of the Wt lambdoid sutures were fused  . Untreated Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures underwent suture fusion by day 4 , while U0126-treated Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures remained patent during the culture period  . EdU incorporation revealed that U0126 treated Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures  exhibited reduced proliferation when compared to Rab23-/- controls   and normalized it to Wt levels  after 24 hr of culture  . This indicates that RAB23 regulates suture patency through a MAPK-MEK-ERK-driven mechanism . pERK1/2 regulates RUNX2 and GLI1 expression in calvaria derived mesenchymal cells . We analyzed the effect of the MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126 , cyclopamine and the combined action of cyclopamine and U0126 on pERK1/2 , RUNX2 and GLI1 expression levels in Rab23-/- CD cells at 6 , 24 and 48 hr of culture  . After 6 hr of culture , the relative pERK1/2 levels were significantly reduced in U0126-treated Rab23-/- cells compare to untreated Rab23-/- cells . The downregulation of pERK1/2 continued in U0126-treated Rab23-/- cells at 24 and 48 hr of culture compare to the untreated Rab23-/- cells  . Whereas , RUNX2 expression significantly reduced only after 48 hr of U0126-treated Rab23-/- cells  . U0126-treated Rab23-/- cells showed gradual reduction of GLI1 expressions at 6 and 24 hr; however , it showed drastic reduction at 48 hr compared to untreated Rab23-/- cells  . Further immunohistochemical expression of GLI1 was also found reduced in the U0126 treated Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures at 24 and 48 hr compared to untreated Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures  . These findings collectively indicate that pERK1/2 regulates RUNX2 and GLI1 expressions . Whereas , RUNX2 is a predominant downstream target of pERK1/2 and a weak target of GLI1 . In this study , we generated Rab23-deficient mice that survive into late gestation and they exhibit multiple suture craniosynostosis . We show that RAB23 regulates the sutural stem cell niche marker GLI1 , represses Hh , and inhibits osteoprogenitor expansion . RAB23 also represses FGF10-driven pERK1/2 signaling which has the multiple effect of directly regulating osteoprogenitor development , RUNX2-mediated differentiation and of repressing GLI1 . Therefore , RAB23 coordinates suture biogenesis by regulating FGF-ERK1/2-RUNX2 activity , as well as the activation of GLI1 . This will be help deciphering the role of RAB23 , specifically during endocytosis . Here , we show that Fgf10 , its receptor FGFR1b and the FGF activator Pitx2 , are all upregulated in Rab23-deficient calvaria . Analyzing the MAPK pathway in Rab23-/- lambdoid sutures we show that p38 signaling is decreased and pERK1/2 increased . The importance of pERK1/2 regulation of RUNX2 during osteogenesis is shown in this study by the reversal of the craniosynostotic phenotype in Rab23-/- mice . Specifically , postaxial polydactyly in the forelimb , preaxial polydactyly in the hindlimb and lambdoid and interfrontal suture craniosynostosis  . Analysis of early Rab23-/- embryos suggests that RAB23 also has a role in promoting the production of GLI3 repressor  . In both Gli3Xt−J/Xt−J and Rab23-/- calvaria elevated Hh signaling results in an upregulation of the transcription factor Gli1 , and presumably the mesenchymal stem niche which it labels . Here , we show FGF10 upregulates Runx2 . Our study revealed that inhibition of pERK1/2 prevented Rab23-/- lambdoid suture fusion by decreasing osteoprogenitor proliferation and GLI1 expression  . We further showed that combined and individual inhibition of GLI1 and pERK1/2 in Rab23-/- calvarial cells downregulated RUNX2 and GLI1  and that this effect was exaggerated in Rab23-/- cells . Phenotypic analyses of compound Rab23;Smoothened early embryonic mice shows that RAB23 can regulate GLI independently of Smoothened  , and the regulation of GLI1 by pERK1/2 suggests a mechanism how this might occur  . We show that RAB23 represses both FGF and Hh/GLI signaling  . RAB23 coordinates suture morphogenesis and controls suture patency through three mechanisms: FGF10-pERK1/2 signaling , the repression of Hh targets through a canonical pathway , and through the repression of GLI1 by pERK1/2 . GLI1 contributes in the regulation of the mesenchymal stem cell niche . FGF10-pERK1/2 and also Hh-GLI1 signaling regulate osteoprogenitor cell proliferation . For quantitative PCR , RNA was isolated individually from whole calvaria and from lambdoid suture of Rab23-/- and Wt embryos at E15 . A customized 20ZZ probe named Mm-Rab23 targeting 45–1330 of NM_008999 . 4 was purchased from Advanced Cell Diagnostics to perform Rab23 expression analysis on mouse calvarial suture . Immunohistochemistry on lambdoid sutural samples was performed using primary anti-RAB23 , GLI1 , RUNX2 and FGFR1 antibody . WT and Rab23-/- embryos were taken out at E15 . 5 Wt calvaria derived mesenchymal cells were treated with exogenous FGF10  for 3 hr . 5 Rab23-/- calvaria derived mesenchymal cells were treated with exogenous FGF10  for 2 and 4 hr . In vitro inhibition of pERK1/2 in Rab23-/- calvaria derived primary cells  was performed by adding 5 µM of U0126 and 10 µM of cyclopamine for 6 , 24 and 48 hr . 5 Wt and Rab23-/- were cultured in an in vitro explant culture system . Rab23-/- calvaria received 5 µM of U0126 treatment or DMSO as control . 5 embryonic lambdoid sutures were collected and fixed o/n with 4% paraformaldehyde , and processed for paraffin sections . Paraffin-embedded lambdoid sutures were sectioned 7 µm size . Apoptotic assay on tissue sections from in vitro cultured Wt , control Rab23-/- and U0126 treated Rab23-/- lambdoid suture was performed according to manufacturer protocol  . 5 WT and Rab23-/- whole head and samples from rescue studies were collected and fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde overnight . 
The conserved Polycomb Repressive Complex 2  maintains epigenetic repression of many genes in animals and plants and modifies chromatin at its targets . Histones modified by PRC2 can be inherited through cell division . By monitoring the expression of two copies of the Arabidopsis Polycomb target gene FLOWERING LOCUS C  in the same plants , we show that one copy can be repressed while the other is active . Furthermore , this ‘mixed’ expression state is inherited through many cell divisions as plants develop . These data demonstrate that epigenetic memory of FLC expression is stored not in trans but in cis . Importantly , a requirement for chromatin-modifying factors in epigenetic memory does not necessarily imply that memory is itself stored in chromatin . Vernalization is the acceleration of flowering following prolonged cold exposure and is mediated by cold-induced epigenetic repression of the Polycomb target gene and floral repressor FLC . FLC repression requires PRC2 but is independent of DNA methylation  , making it a useful system for studying the cis-memory storage capability of Polycomb at a single gene . In vernalized plants , FLC expression is bistable , with the number of cells in which FLC is stably repressed increasing quantitatively with the duration of prior cold exposure  . Cold exposure results in localization of a plant-homeodomain-PRC2 complex  to a small nucleation region within the FLC gene , which leads to locally increased H3K27me3 and co-ordinately decreased H3K36me3  . After cold , H3K27me3 is present at the FLC promoter and gene body but does not spread to neighbouring genes  . Polycomb-dependent FLC repression is maintained throughout plant development until it is reset during embryogenesis  . If FLC transcriptional states are defined by concentrations of diffusible factors  , then all copies of FLC within a cell should be in the same transcriptional state . On the other hand , if FLC chromatin states instruct their own inheritance  , then it should be possible for different copies of FLC within a cell to exist in different heritable transcriptional states . To search for evidence of this ‘mixed’ transcriptional state , we generated a system in which we could visualize the expression of two copies of FLC in single cells . We generated plants expressing FLC tagged with either Venus or mCherry fluorescent protein in the FRI-sf2 flc-2 genetic background  . The transgenes consist of 12 kb of genomic DNA surrounding FLC with the Venus or mCherry sequence inserted as a translational fusion into FLC exon 6  . The early flowering phenotype of flc-2 mutants was fully rescued in transgenic lines , demonstrating that the fusion proteins are functional  . Expression of full-length FLC-Venus fusion protein was confirmed by immunoprecipitation , followed by immunoblot and mass spectrometry  . Like wild-type Columbia line FRI-sf2  , FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry plants responded to cold exposure by accelerating flowering  . This indicates that the FLC transgenes were stably repressed similarly to endogenous FLC after cold . Epigenetic repression was confirmed to be quantitatively dependent on the duration of cold exposure for FLC-Venus at the transcriptional level in both roots and shoots , and also at the protein level  . We also verified that the FLC antisense transcripts , named COOLAIR  , are expressed from these constructs and are induced during cold exposure  . FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry plants are late flowering and vernalization responsive . Schematic of FLC genomic DNA used to generate FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry translational fusions . 6 kb downstream of the FLC transcription start site . Photograph showing the early-flowering phenotype of non-vernalized parental flc-2 FRI plants and the complementation of flc-2 in transgenic FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry plants . Flowering time for homozygous single-copy FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry plants  compared to wild-type  and parental flc-2 FRI plants  ; Vernalized plants were pre-grown for 1 week at 22°C and spent 4 weeks at 5°C before being returned to 22°C . Detection of FLC-Venus protein . Immunoblot of FLC-Venus GFP-trap immunoprecipitation  . wt indicates untransformed wild-type control sample  , whereas Venus indicates FLC-Venus transgenic sample . The predicted mass of FLC-Venus is 48 . Table of peptides corresponding to FLC that were identified by mass spectrometry in FLC-Venus IP but not control IP sample . Start-End refers to the location of the peptide in the FLC protein sequence . Active and repressed FLC-Venus transcriptional states are mitotically inherited . Unspliced FLC-Venus RNA in roots and shoots measured by qRT-PCR for non-vernalized  plants or after 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , or 10 weeks of cold followed by 7 days of warm . Confocal microscopy images of FLC-Venus  in primary root meristems of plants exposed to 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , or 10 weeks cold . Plants were imaged 7 days after return to warm . FLC-Venus is localized to nuclei . Cell walls were stained with propidium iodide  . Histograms of mean FLC-Venus intensity in individual cells  for two independent FLC-Venus transgenic lines . FLC-Venus is quantitatively epigenetically repressed by cold exposure . FLC-Venus mRNA levels measured by RT-qPCR using primers specific for FLC-Venus . 4WT0 indicates that plants were harvested immediately after exposure to 4 weeks of cold , while 4WT7 indicates that plants were grown for a further 7 days in warm conditions . Immunoblot of FLC-Venus during and after 4 or 6 weeks cold exposure . COOLAIR expression in transgenic FLC lines . Schematic of FLC genomic DNA with FLC mRNA and COOLAIR exons represented by black boxes . Cold induction of COOLAIR expression in FLC-Venus transgenic lines . NV indicates that plants were NV , while 4WT0 indicates that plants were harvested immediately after exposure to 4 weeks of cold . Confocal microscopy of FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry . Confocal microscopy images of non-vernalized FLC-Venus . FLC-Venus channel is a maximum intensity projection over 2–3 z-planes . Propidium iodide  was used to stain the cell wall; a single z-plane corresponding to the centre of the projection was overlaid on the FLC-Venus image . 3 roots are shown for each of two independent FLC-Venus lines . Confocal microscopy images of FLC-mCherry before vernalization and  after 6 weeks cold followed by 7 days growth in warm conditions . Images are maximum intensity projections over 2–3 z-planes; a single z-plane corresponding to the centre of the projection was used for bright-field images . Files of cells not expressing FLC-mCherry are indicated with white arrows . ,  Higher magnification images showing adjacent files of ON and OFF cells for FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry , 7 days after 6 weeks or 5 weeks cold exposure , respectively . Confocal microscopy of FLC-Venus after vernalization . FLC-Venus  in root meristems of plants exposed to 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , or 10 weeks cold . Plants were imaged 7 days after return to warm . FLC-Venus channel is a maximum intensity projection over 2–3 z-planes . Propidium iodide  was used to stain the cell wall; a single z-plane corresponding to the centre of the projection was overlaid on the FLC-Venus image . For each treatment , 3 roots are shown for each of two independent FLC-Venus lines . Quantitative image analysis . Flowchart showing the processing steps used to calculate mean FLC-Venus intensity per cell . Cell wall  images from each layer of the z-stack were masked and segmented . Mean FLC-Venus intensity within each reconstructed cell was then computed from the corresponding region in the FLC-Venus channel . Quantification can be visualized as a heat map showing mean FLC-Venus intensity within each successfully reconstructed cell . Cells in black were not successfully reconstructed . Mean FLC-Venus intensity extracted from all cells at the same depth plotted against depth in the confocal z-stack . Root-to-root variability in quantified images . Four roots of a single FLC-Venus line exposed to 8 weeks of cold followed by 7 days of growth in warm . Propidium iodide , FLC-Venus , and Overlay are single z-plane images . ‘Quantified cells’ is the corresponding z-plane from the 3D reconstruction , showing the computed mean FLC-Venus intensity in each cell as a heat map . Missing cells are those that were not successfully reconstructed in 3D . Alongside each quantified image are histograms of mean FLC-Venus intensity per cell , quantified for all cells in the corresponding root . 011 FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry were visualized using confocal microscopy of root meristems in warm conditions 7 days after cold exposures ranging from 2 to 10 weeks . Roots provide an excellent system for studying heritability of epigenetic states because cell lineages are visible as continuous files of cells that arise from repeated anticlinal divisions along the longitudinal axis of the growing root   . In warm conditions , stem cells at the root tip divide approximately once every two days , while for other meristematic cells this occurs approximately once per day  . Therefore , 7 days after plants are transferred from cold , a single cell in the stem cell niche will have given rise to a lineage that encompasses a long file of cells in the root meristem . Strikingly , images of FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry 7 days after cold exposure showed long files of cells in the same expression state  , demonstrating the long-term mitotic stability of the active and repressed transcriptional states . To quantitatively characterize the FLC-Venus expression status in individual cells after different durations of cold , we developed an automated image analysis procedure to calculate the mean FLC-Venus intensity inside each cell  . As suggested by individual images , our unbiased analysis of 53 roots  revealed that the number of cells expressing FLC-Venus decreased quantitatively with the duration of cold exposure  . Importantly , FLC-Venus expression was bimodal after 6 or 8 weeks cold , and almost all cells were silenced after 10 weeks cold  . Having developed an assay to visualize mitotic heritability of FLC expression states at the single-cell level , we returned to the question of cis vs trans epigenetic memory at FLC . We crossed FLC-mCherry to FLC-Venus plants to generate F1 hybrids carrying a single copy of each transgene . In a trans-based memory , the only possible heritable expression states of FLC-Venus/FLC-mCherry are ON/ON and OFF/OFF , because epigenetic information is stored as a diffusible signal  . As expected , non-vernalized roots showed uniform ON/ON expression of both transgenes in all cells  . To stochastically induce repression of the two FLC transgenes , we exposed F1 plants to 4–6 weeks of cold followed by 7 days growth in warm . Strikingly , we observed long files of cells in which one FLC reporter was stably repressed , while the other remained stably activated  . In fact , we observed long-term mitotic stability of all four possible combinations: FLC-Venus/FLC-mCherry ON/ON , ON/OFF , OFF/ON , and OFF/OFF  . Inheritance of the ‘mixed’ ON/OFF and OFF/ON states directly contradicts trans memory and instead provides direct evidence of a cis-encoded epigenetic state at FLC . ‘Mixed’ transcriptional states are mitotically inherited . In a trans memory system , the two copies of FLC are coordinately regulated and only two mitotically heritable states are possible  . In a cis memory system , the two copies of FLC can be maintained in alternative expression states , so four mitotically heritable states are possible  . Non-vernalized roots of FLC-mCherry × FLC-Venus F1 plants show uniform expression of FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry in all nuclei . After vernalization such plants can epigenetically repress a single-gene copy , while the other remains activated . The following notation is used to indicate files of cells in the various expression states: Both expressed , vc; FLC-Venus only , v; FLC-mCherry only , C . Confocal images of NV FLC-Venus × FLC-mCherry F1 plants . Confocal microscope images acquired simultaneously using dual excitation of FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry . Images are maximum intensity projections over 2–4 z-planes . Overlay contains the FLC-Venus  and FLC-mCherry  channels only . Confocal images of vernalized FLC-Venus × FLC-mCherry F1 plants . Confocal microscope images acquired simultaneously using dual excitation of FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry . Images are maximum intensity projections over 2–4 z-planes . Overlay contains the FLC-Venus  and FLC-mCherry  channels only . Using the notation 4WT10 to indicate that plants were treated with 4 weeks of cold followed by 10 days of growth in warm , vernalization treatments are:  4WT10 ,  5WT10 ,  5WT11 ,  6WT7 . Files of cells showing mitotically heritable expression of the different combinations of FLC-Venus/FLC-mCherry are identified by white lines . The following notation is used to indicate files of cells in the various expression states: Both expressed , vc; FLC-Venus only , v; FLC-mCherry only , c; both repressed , n . 014 The FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry transgenes in these double-hemizygous F1 plants are not in the same genomic location . However , like endogenous FLC , the reporters are actively expressed throughout development in warm conditions and epigenetically repressed specifically in response to prolonged cold  . Epigenetic repression , therefore , depends on cold exposure and the FLC-specific sequences within the transgenes rather than the genomic location . Furthermore , since we observe similar numbers of cells in the FLC-Venus/FLC-mCherry ON/OFF and OFF/ON expression states  , we consider it unlikely that differences in genomic location or fluorophore sequence between the transgenes causes one of the copies to be preferentially repressed over the other . Our findings demonstrate that the molecular changes to the chromatin environment of FLC induced by prolonged cold exposure are sufficient to instruct epigenetic inheritance of the Polycomb-repressed transcriptional state . Specific nucleic acid structures  , non-coding RNAs  ( for example the chromatin-associated COOLAIR antisense transcripts at FLC  ) , and histone variants  may also play important roles . Plant growth conditions were described previously  . For flowering time measurements , plants were transferred from plates to soil 5 days after vernalization . Col-FRI is Col-0 with an introgressed active FRIGIDA allele  , and was previously described  , as was the flc-2 mutant in Col-FRI  . FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry translational fusions were generated in a similar way to a previously published FLC-GUS reporter  . Specifically , either the Venus  or mCherry  coding sequence was inserted into the NheI site of FLC exon 6 . 7-kb SacI/XhoI genomic fragments were transferred into pSLJ-755I6  for transformation into flc-2 FRI-sf2 plants using Agrobacterium tumefaciens . Many  independent transgenic lines that we analysed rescued the early-flowering phenotype of parental flc-2 FRI-sf2 plants and showed accelerated flowering in response to cold exposure . Transgenic FLC lines were selected for further analysis based on similarity between expression level of the transgene and that of endogenous FLC . Single-copy FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry lines showed no evidence of transgene silencing in 3 generations of propagation after transformation . When measuring unspliced FLC , genomic DNA was removed using TURBO DNA-free  following the manufacturer's guidelines , except that phenol–chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation were used to further purify RNA after DNAse treatment . Primer and probe sequences are listed here: UBC  UBCspl_F: ctgcgactcagggaatcttctaa; UBCspl_R: ttgtgccattgaattgaaccc; spliced FLC  FLCspl_F: agccaagaagaccgaactca; FLCspl_R: tttgtccagcaggtgacatc; unspliced FLC  FLC_3966_F: cgcaattttcatagcccttg; FLC_4135_R: ctttgtaatcaaaggtggagagc; FLC-Venus  FLC-VENUSex6_cDNA_1247_F: cacatggtcctgctggagtt; FLC-VENUSex6_cDNA_1388_R: cggagatttgtccagcaggt; Total COOLAIR  Set6new_LP: tgtatgtgttcttcacttctgtcaa; Set6new_RP: gccgtaggcttcttcactgt; Class I COOLAIR  Set2new_LP: tcatcatgtgggagcagaag; Set2new_RP: tctcacacgaataaggtggcta; Class II COOLAIR  Set4_RT: aatatctggcccgacgaag; Set4new_F-195: gtatctccggcgacttgaac; Set4new_R-195: ggatgcgtcacagagaacag . FLC-Venus or untransformed control plants were ground in liquid nitrogen and suspended in extraction buffer ( 20 mM Tris–HCl pH 7 . Venus-tagged protein was precipitated by incubating soluble extract with GFP-Trap_M beads  . Venus-tagged protein was detected with either a rabbit polyclonal anti-GFP antibody  or a commercial mouse monoclonal anti-GFP antibody mixture  . Confocal microscopy data were obtained for homozygous single-copy FLC-Venus and FLC-mCherry lines at the T3 generation or F1 plants generated by crossing these lines . Imaging was performed using a 20×/0 . For single-fluorophore experiments with FLC-Venus lines , roots were immersed in 2 μg/mL propidium iodide  to label the cell wall . The emission spectrum of propidium iodide overlaps with that of mCherry , so could not be used in FLC-mCherry or double-fluorophore experiments . The following wavelengths were used for fluorescence detection: FLC-Venus excitation 514 nm and detection 511–555 nm  , propidium iodide excitation 514 nm and detection 626–697 nm , FLC-mCherry excitation 561 nm and detection 570–620 nm . To allow comparison between treatments , the same laser power and detector settings were used for all FLC-Venus images and all FLC-mCherry images , respectively . For double-fluorophore experiments , Venus and mCherry fluorophores were simultaneously excited at 514 nm and 561 nm , respectively . For visual comparison of nuclear intensity between different treatments in FLC-Venus images , the same linear adjustment was used . Confocal z-stack images were analysed using a custom image processing pipeline to reconstruct cellular volumes and calculate the mean FLC-Venus fluorescence intensity per cell . com/JIC-CSB/root-image-analysis . Since the propidium iodide cell wall stain is not compatible for imaging with mCherry , cell segmentation could not be performed for FLC-mCherry or double-fluorophore experiments . Image analysis was , therefore , undertaken for FLC-Venus only . Pixels not corresponding to root tissue were masked using a series of morphological transforms of the propidium iodide  images from each stack . Together , these steps generated an individual 2D segmentation for each cell wall image in the stack . The structure of the root was then reconstructed in 3D by comparing cells in segmented 2D images with those in neighbouring planes . Finally , reconstructed 3D volumes were applied to the images from the FLC-Venus fluorescent channel to calculate mean intensity across the reconstructed volume by summing FLC-Venus intensity inside the reconstructed cell  and dividing by the total volume of the reconstructed cell  . To validate the method , the mean FLC-Venus intensity per cell was estimated manually for a random selection of 50 cells from 22 different roots . Comparison of these results with those generated by the automated procedure for the same cells indicated that the mean cellular FLC-Venus intensities were accurate in approximately 80% of cells . It was observed that FLC-Venus intensity decreased with depth in the image stack  . 
Site-specific proteolysis and crosslinking were used to probe the architecture of oligomers formed by the endoplasmic reticulum  Hsp70 , BiP . These were found to consist of adjacent protomers engaging the interdomain linker of one molecule in the substrate binding site of another , attenuating the chaperone function of oligomeric BiP . Native gel electrophoresis revealed a rapidly-modulated reciprocal relationship between the burden of unfolded proteins and BiP oligomers and slower equilibration between oligomers and inactive , covalently-modified BiP . Lumenal ER calcium depletion caused rapid oligomerization of mammalian BiP and a coincidental diminution in substrate binding , pointing to the relative inertness of the oligomers . Thus , equilibration between inactive oligomers and active monomeric BiP is poised to buffer fluctuations in ER unfolded protein load on a rapid timescale attainable neither by inter-conversion of active and covalently-modified BiP nor by the conventional unfolded protein response . One such adaptation , apparently unique to the ER , is the reversible ADP ribosylation and de-ribosylation of the ER Hsp70 chaperone , BiP  . In its ADP ribosylated form , BiP is locked into an inactive state with low affinity for its substrates  . ADP ribosylation affects residues in BiP that interfere with the allosteric coupling of ATP binding and hydrolysis in BiP's nucleotide binding domain  to the affinity of its substrate binding domain  for unfolded proteins  , thus targeting the basic chaperoning mechanism used by all Hsp70/DnaK family members  . A recent study reveals that the same circumstances that promote ADP ribosylation of BiP are also associated with rapidly reversible formation of an ester bond between threonine 366 in the NBD and adenosine monophosphate to yield BiP AMPylation , an inactivation modification  . Whilst the interrelation of ADP ribosylation and AMPylation remain to be worked out , covalently modified BiP is understood to represent an inactive buffer that can be drawn upon in time of need , by removal of the modifications , thereby increasing the capacity of the ER to cope with enhanced unfolded protein burden whilst minimizing the cost of over-chaperoning . Indeed , the inter-conversion of ADP ribosylated and AMPylated BiP to the unmodified active form follows a coherent pattern whereby increased client protein load converts the inactive buffer form to the active one and diminished client protein load pushes modification the other way  . Oligomerization of BiP , mammalian Hsc70 and bacterial DnaK , has been observed in vitro  and in cells  . Here we report on application of a chemical probe specific to the interdomain linker of BiP and site-specific crosslinking to analyze its disposition in BiP monomers and oligomers . In doing so we have uncovered a mechanism for rapid and reversible BiP oligomerization that inactivates the chaperone to serve as a recoupable storage form . It therefore came as surprise to find that in vitro hydrolysis of the ATP in cell lysates  left a substantial fraction of BiP protected from digestion by a specific protease  that cleaves its interdomain linker   . ATP increases sensitivity of BiP to cleavage at its interdomain linker . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP in lysates of CHO-K1 cells , following exposure  to the indicated concentration of a bacterial protease  that selectively cleaves the interdomain linker and separation by SDS-PAGE . The lysate in the lower panel was prepared without hexokinase and exposed to ATP  before cleavage by SubA . The full-length protein  and the C-terminal substrate binding domain  were detected with antiserum that recognizes a C-terminal epitope of hamster BiP , quantified by fluorescence-based immunoblotting on a Licor Odyssey imager and displayed in graphic form in the bottom panel . Purified BiP  was incubated  with or without 3 mM ATP followed by exposure  to the indicated concentration of SubA . Cartoon describing the proposed architecture of BiP oligomers: The SBD is in orange , the NBD in blue and the interdomain linker  in green . However , similar enhancement of linker exposure was also observed in pure preparations of BiP  , suggesting that an intrinsic aspect of BiP's biochemistry affords the linker protection under ATP depletion and enhances its exposure upon ATP repletion . Whilst the in vivo relevance of trans-protomer linker binding has not been explored , the structure suggests a plausible mechanism by which ATP hydrolysis to ADP , which locks BiP in the high substrate-affinity mode , might protect the interdomain linker from digestion by SubA . The architecture of BiP oligomers suggested by the aforementioned observations  makes certain testable predictions in regards to the behavior of mutant forms of BiP . To explore the potential role of linker engagement by the SBD in oligomerization , we compared the oligomeric state of wildtype BiP , expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli , with BiPV461F , a mutation that interferes with substrate engagement at the SBD  or a four residue substitution that alters the hydrophobic nature of the interdomain linker  abolishing the linker's role in allostery  , disrupting the SubA cleavage site  and altering key residues that render the linker a BiP/Hsp70 substrate  , all whilst preserving the intrinsic ability of BiP's SBD to bind other substrates . Size-exclusion chromatography  of purified wildtype BiP yields three discernable peaks  with tailing into the high molecular weight region  , consistent with previous observations  . The molar masses of BiP complexes in elution peaks I , II and III , as measured by multi-angle light scattering  , match closely the predicted masses of BiP monomers , dimers and trimers , respectively  . Addition of ATP leads to redistribution of BiP from the higher molecular weight fractions into a single large peak that elutes slightly later than peak I  . The late elution of the ATP-induced peak is consistent with linker-mediated compaction of the SBD and NBD  . Mutations that disrupt substrate binding or alter the interdomain linker interfere with BiP oligomerization . Peptide bond absorbance traces  of solutions of bacterially expressed and purified wildtype  BiP , or the indicated mutants  , following fractionation by size-exclusion chromatography  . Trace as in ‘A’ of wildtype BiP incubated in the absence or presence of 5 mM ATP before fractionation . The BiP profile described in ‘A’ and the profile of BiP incubated with ATP are shown . 07 min represents free ATP . Note the dissociation of oligomers  upon exposure to ATP . Trace as in ‘B’ with the V461F mutant BiP . Trace as in ‘B’ with the ADDA mutant BiP . Wildtype BiP  was incubated without or with a BiP-binding peptide   or a peptide derived from the interdomain linker of BiP  or a mutant linker peptide  and fractionated as in ‘A’ . Note that whereas addition of both the reference peptide  and the linker peptide  shifted the distribution of BiP to lower molecular weight species , the mutant linker peptide  was with no effect . Wildtype BiP  was incubated in the absence or presence of tracer amounts lucifer yellow-labeled BiP-binding peptide  and fractionated as in ‘A’ . Multiangle light scattering  measurement of purified BiP eluted from a size-exclusion chromatography column . Purified wildtype BiP  was passed through a size-exclusion chromatography  column and the molar masses of BiP complexes in elution peaks I , II and III were measured by MALS . The predicted masses of BiP monomers , dimers and trimers are indicated  . ATP binding rather than ATP hydrolysis induces dissociation of BiP oligomers . Colorimetric measurement of ATP hydrolysis by purified wildtype BiP and the ATPase activity-deficient mutant BiPT229A . Samples of the BiP protein working solutions were applied to SDS-PAGE and visualized by Coomassie staining  to confirm that equal protein amounts were used in the assay . Size-exclusion chromatography  analysis of wildtype BiP and BiPT229A . BiP proteins were diluted to 50 µM in absence or presence of 800 µM ATP , ADP or ATP-γ-S , respectively , and incubated for 20 min at room temperature before injection onto a SEC column . Note that ATP induced dissociation of oligomeric BiP species . ADP caused partial decrease of oligomers formed by BiPT229A but had almost no effect on wildtype BiP oligomers . ATP-γ-S caused only partial disassembly of wildtype and mutant BiPT229A oligomers , which is consistent with the previously-observed inefficient dissociation of Hsp70:substrate complexes by this ATP analog  . Effect of nucleotides on BiP oligomers analyzed by native-PAGE . BiP or BiPT229A were incubated with the indicated nucleotides prior to separation on a native gel and Coomassie staining . Also note that the nucleotide-dependent differences in the oligomerization status of BiP appear weaker on native gels compared to SEC analysis in ‘B’ , which is likely due to re-formation of oligomeric complexes caused by nucleotide depletion and protein concentration effects during native-PAGE . Glutaraldehyde crosslinking confirms the nucleotide dependence of BiP oligomerization and its susceptibility to competition by substrate peptides . SDS-PAGE and Coomassie staining of purified wildtype BiP or substrate binding-deficient BiPV461F following brief crosslinking with gluteraldehyde . Monomeric BiP and slower-migrating oligomeric crosslinked complexes are indicated . Note that wildtype BiP oligomers disassembled into monomers in presence of ATP , whereas BiPV461F remained largely monomeric even in absence of added nucleotide . Coomassie-stained SDS-gel of gluteraldehyde crosslinked wildtype BiP following equilibration at high concentration  , dilution to a final concentration of 0 . Note the slow dissociation of BiP oligomers into monomers upon dilution . Coomassie-stained SDS-gel of gluteraldehyde crosslinked wildtype BiP as above . Purified wildtype BiP  was incubated without or with 2 mM ATP and BiP-binding peptide  at the indicated concentrations in HKM buffer containing 15 mM D-glucose for 5 min at 30°C to allow ATP-mediated dissociation of BiP oligomers . ATP was then hydrolyzed with 0 . 3 mU/µl hexokinase for 1 hr at 30°C to allow re-formation of BiP oligomers in the absence or presence of competing substrate peptide followed by glutaraldehyde crosslinking as in ‘A’ . Note that substrate peptides interfered with the formation of BiP oligomers  in a concentration-dependent manner . In contrast , oligomers of wildtype BiP were largely maintained in presence of ADP , whereas ATP-γ-S , a slowly-hydrolyzable ATP analog , caused partial dissociation of the large oligomeric species . Together this suggests that the conformational change  induced by ATP binding , rather than by its hydrolysis , triggers BiP oligomer dissociation . Competition for BiP's SBD either by a well-characterized BiP substrate peptide ,  , or a peptide corresponding in sequence to the interdomain linker  , dissociated the higher molecular weight forms of BiP and increased intensity of peak I , whereas a peptide derived from the BiPADDA mutant linker sequence  had no effect  . The nucleotide and substrate peptide-mediated rearrangements of BiP complexes observed by SEC were mirrored by the migration of BiP on denaturing SDS-PAGE , following light crosslinking by short exposure to gluteraldehyde  . Together , these experiments reveal that BiP oligomerization depends on integrity of both the SBD and the hydrophobic character of the interdomain linker and likely involves engagement of one BiP molecule by another as a typical substrate . To further explore the architecture of BiP oligomers , we incubated wildtype BiP with trace amounts of a fluorescent , lucifer yellow-labeled BiP substrate peptide HTFPAVL   and simultaneously recorded the protein quantity  and fluorescent signal as the complex eluted from the SEC column . Incorporation of peptide as a function of BiP quantity fell progressively with increased complex size . 26 for peak III  , suggesting that peaks I , II and III were constituted of progressively larger BiP oligomers but with no concordant increase in peptide binding capacity . Engagement of the interdomain linker from one protomer by the SBD of another could explain the resistance of BiP's interdomain linker to cleavage by SubA in the absence of ATP . In contrast , disruption of this homotypic chaperone:client complex upon exposure to ATP would result in enhanced accessibility of the linker to SubA . To examine this possibility in the context of BiP oligomers , we combined trace amounts of lucifer yellow  -tagged BiPV461F  with BiPADDA that is resistant to cleavage by SubA  and monitored fluorescence  and protein absorbance  as the sample eluted from a SEC column . However , the BiPADDA-dependent fluorescent peak II was notably resistant to SubA  , consistent with it arising from a molecule of LY-BiPV461F tracer whose  interdomain linker is protected by engagement as a typical substrate by a BiPADDA molecule , itself with an uncleavable linker . Cross-protomer engagement of the interdomain linker in BiP oligomers protects it against cleavage by SubA . Coomassie-stained SDS-gel of wildtype  and ADDA mutant BiP  before and after cleavage with SubA  for 15 min . Note that the ADDA mutation precludes cleavage by SubA . Peptide bond absorbance trace  and fluorescence trace  of lucifer yellow   of purified ADDA mutant BiP  incubated with tracer concentrations  of lucifer yellow-labeled V461F mutant BiP  and fractionated by size-exclusion chromatography  either before  or after  cleavage with SubA  . Note that fluorescent peak I , corresponding to the V461F mutant BiP monomer is attenuated after cleavage with SubA , whereas peak II , arising from hetero-oligomers of ADDA mutant BiP and V461F mutant BiP is relatively resistant . The peptide-bond absorbance trace  , contributed largely by the ADDA mutant BiP , is unchanged by cleavage with SubA . Experiment as in ‘B’ with purified double mutant ADDA-V461F BiP  and lucifer yellow-labeled V461F mutant BiP  . Removal of BiP's lid does not abrogate cross-protomer engagement of the interdomain linker in BiP oligomers . Peptide bond absorbance traces  of purified BiP  lacking its C-terminal ‘lid’  without  or with a compounding ADDA mutation  following fractionation by size-exclusion chromatography  . Trace as in ‘A’ of lidless BiP incubated with or without ATP  before fractionation . Note the dissociation of oligomers upon exposure to ATP . Peptide bond absorbance trace  and lucifer yellow  fluorescence trace  of purified lidless BiP  supplemented with tracer concentrations of LY-labeled BiP-binding peptide  and fractionated as in ‘A’ . Note the disproportionately diminished engagement of peptide by the larger lidless BiP oligomers ,  Peptide bond absorbance trace of purified ADDA-lidless mutant BiP   and fluorescence trace  of tracer concentrations  of fluorescent LY-labeled V461F mutant BiP  fractionated by size-exclusion chromatography either before  or after  cleavage with SubA  . The peptide-bond absorbance trace , contributed largely by the ADDA mutant lidless BiP , is unchanged by SubA cleavage . 009 It has recently been reported that oligomers of Hsp70 assemble by engagement of the interdomain linker with the C-terminal helical portion  of the SBD  . However , BiP , deleted of its helical lid  , still formed linker-dependent oligomers that dissociated upon exposure to ATP  , engaged peptides in a hierarchy similar to that of wildtype BiP oligomers  and protected the interdomain linker of LY-BiPV461F tracer similarly to wildtype BiP  . These observations point to the dispensability of the helical lid for BiP oligomerization via linker engagement and support the conclusion that the linker is engaged by the SBD as a typical substrate in a configuration consistent with the crystal structure of G . The aforementioned observations pointing to a mechanism of oligomerization that entails linker engagement suggest that ATP binding has two opposing effects on interdomain linker exposure:  Protection against SubA by burial at the interface of the coupled NBD and SBD; a state that equilibrates relatively rapidly with the uncoupled linker-exposed state , leading ultimately to complete digestion by SubA . Exposure to SubA by release of the linker from the SBD of adjacent protomers in the oligomer . In the absence of ATP the oligomers are very stable with a low off rate  . Thus the addition of SubA to the ATP-depleted sample leads to rapid cleavage of any wildtype BiP monomers  with the persistence of a fraction of SubA resistant oligomeric BiP , which equilibrates very slowly with cleavage susceptible monomers . In case of the wildtype BiP , effect ii was seen to dominate , but in BiPV461F  , effect i dominates  . In oligomers , only a subset of protomers expose their interdomain linker to SubA . Purified wildtype  and V461F mutant BiP  were exposed to SubA  at 30°C for the indicated time in presence or absence of 2 mM ATP and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie staining . Note that ATP enhances cleavage of the wildtype BiP whilst attenuating cleavage of the V461F mutant . Coomassie-stained native gel  of purified wildtype and V461F mutant BiP  . Where indicated the sample had been exposed to 5 mM ATP and SubA  and digested to completion . Wildtype BiP  was incubated in presence or absence of 500 µM BiP-binding peptide  for 16 hr at room-temperature followed by digestion with SubA , as is ‘B’ . The novel species emerging after addition of peptide is labeled 'I-Pep' and the cleavage products of BiP  are indicated . Note that both peptide addition and ATP shift the distribution of BiP oligomers to faster migrating species on native gels and enhance sensitivity to cleavage by SubA . BiP protomers have high affinity for each other . Immunoblot of purified BiP resolved by native-PAGE . BiP was diluted to the indicated concentrations and allowed to equilibrate for 48 hr at room temperature . A parallel immunoblot of the same sample resolved by SDS-PAGE  reports of the mass of BiP loaded . Plot of the proportion of BiP in species II as a function of protein concentration . The signal of BiP species II was quantified and normalized to signal of total BiP loaded . Plot of the proportion of BiP in species III as a function of protein concentration as in ‘B’ . 011 Further support for oligomerization by trans-engagement of the interdomain linker in the SBD of an adjacent protomer was provided by native gel electrophoresis . Wildtype BiP formed discrete oligomers  , whilst BiPV461F populated a dominant high mobility species   . However , in the presence of ATP , wildtype BiP was digested to near completion by SubA , with the NBD as the dominant remaining species   ; a pattern similar to that presented by BiPV461F in the presence or absence of ATP  . The concentration of BiP at which half of species II  and half of species III  dissociated was 0 . Whilst incomplete re-equilibration and inter-conversion amongst oligomeric species likely render this an upper estimate of the affinity of BiP protomers for one another , nonetheless the observations point to considerable stability of the oligomers , as suggested previously  . The discrete oligomeric species observed in native gel electrophoresis of wildtype BiP were diminished in BiPADDA  , as predicted from the behavior of this mutant on SEC  . This observation is consistent with low affinity of the SBD for the mutant interdomain linker . However , the crystal structure of the ATP-bound homologous DnaK indicates that side chains of BiP linker residues affected by the ADDA mutation  are directly involved in ATP-mediated coupling of the SBD and NBD  . BiPADDA fails to form discrete oligomers in contrast to other BiP mutants that are locked in the domain-uncoupled state . Purified wildtype  and mutant BiP proteins  were incubated  for 15 min at 30°C with or without 3 mM ATP in HKM buffer and analyzed by native-PAGE and Coomassie-staining . Purified wildtype and mutant BiP proteins  were exposed to SubA  at 30°C for the indicated times in presence of 3 mM ATP and subsequently analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie staining . Note that the mutant BiP proteins are less efficiently cleaved by SubA . Partial proteolysis to analyze the nucleotide-dependent conformational states of wildtype and mutant BiP proteins . 10 µg of purified wildtype  and mutant BiP proteins  were digested with 2 µg Proteinase K in HKM buffer for the indicated times without or with added nucleotide  and subsequently analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie-staining . Note the accumulation of a characteristic 60 kDa fragment  during digestion of wt BiP in presence of ATP , which reports on the ATP-induced compact conformation of the protein and protection of the interdomain linker . Characterization of the proteolytic fragments generated by digestion of BiP with Proteinase K . Wildtype  and mutant BiP proteins  carrying N-terminal hexahistidine tags  were digested for 25 min with Proteinase K in presence or absence of added nucleotide  . The beads were washed with 4 M GuHCl in HKM buffer and the retained N-terminal BiP fragments were eluted with SDS sample buffer containing 250 mM imidazole . As controls wt BiP , digested with the linker-specific protease SubA , and undigested BiPlidless were affinity purified in parallel . In addition , the nucleotide binding domain  and the substrate binding domain  , generated by digestion of wildtype BiP with SubA , migrate very similar to fragments 3 and 4 , respectively . This further implies that fragment 2 results from cleavage of BiP within the C-terminal lid of the open SBD , which is exposed in the ATP-bound conformation  . 014 To address this experimentally we exploited the fact that BiP produces characteristic conformation-dependent proteolytic patterns in low concentrations of proteinase K  . Such limited proteolysis of wildtype BiP generated a protected fragment corresponding in mass to the compact NBD  as well as an N-terminal 60 kDa fragment that accumulated only in presence of ATP  and thus likely reflects protection of the linker due to its engagement in interdomain contacts . Next we compared oligomerization of the BiPADDA with other BiP proteins carrying mutations known to favor uncoupling of the SBD and NBD . As predicted , the oligomers formed by the BiPT37G and BiPG226D mutants were unaffected by ATP , in contrast to wildtype BiP  , confirming their mutant status . The resistance of oligomers formed by the BiPT37G and BiPG226D mutants to dissociation by ATP , correlated with protection of the interdomain linker from cleavage by SubA  , consistent with trans-engagement of their interdomain linker as a substrate by their uncoupled SBD . Impaired linker binding likely favors lower affinity interactions that involve other elements of BiP and may partially dissociate during separation by native gel electrophoresis  . When combined with purified FLAG-tagged wildtype BiP , derivatives decorated with pBpa at positions located in the vicinity of the interdomain linker  resulted in a conspicuous , UV-dependent shift in the mobility of the unmodified FLAG-tagged BiP on denaturing SDS-PAGE  . The novel modified BiP binding partner-dependent species stood out against the background of UV-dependent changes in the mobility the FLAG-tagged BiP observed in absence of a pBpa-decorated partner; crosslinks to nucleotide likely contribute to altered mobility of UV-irradiated FLAG-tagged BiP during SDS-PAGE . These observations point to physical proximity of pBpa-substituted residues in the vicinity of the interdomain linker of untagged BiPV461F to its FLAG-tagged unmodified wildtype BiP counterpart , supporting the model of trans-protomer engagement of the interdomain linker cartooned in Figure 1C . Site-specific photo-crosslinking to probe the trans-engagement of the interdomain linker in BiP oligomers . Residues of BiP that were individually replaced by the photoactivatable crosslinking amino acid p-benzoyl-L-phenylalanine  are highlighted  on a model of BiP in the ADP-bound state that is based on the crystal structure of DnaK from Geobacillus kaustophilus  . Anti-FLAG immunoblot of FLAG-tagged wildtype BiP  from in vitro photo-crosslinking reactions resolved on a 7% SDS-gel . BiP-3xFLAG  was combined with untagged BiP-V461F-X/pBpa proteins  carrying pBpa at either one of the positions  illustrated in ‘A’ . The mixtures were further incubated for 16 hr at 25°C to allow for efficient formation of trans BiP complexes . The position of pBpa decorated BiP-dependent  crosslinked adduct is indicated  as are the decorated BiP-independent  and FLAG immunoreactive high-molecular weight material  . Note that the yield of BiP from bacteria transformed with plasmid lacking the amber codon was unaffected by the addition of pBpa to the culture , whereas the yield from cultures transformed with plasmids bearing amber codons was notably enhanced by addition of pBpa , as predicted  . Coomassie-stained SDS-gel of the BiP proteins used for site-specific crosslinking experiments shown in Figure 6B and below . Immunoblots of FLAG-tagged wildtype BiP  from independent repeats of the in vitro photo-crosslinking experiment as in Figure 6B . Lanes 1 and 2 contained only the 3xFLAG-tagged BiP and lanes 3 and 4 contained non-derivatized untagged BiP as controls . 016 Native gel electrophoresis confirmed the presence of discrete higher molecular weight species of BiP in cell lysates , which stand out above the heterogeneous signal expected of a chaperone that engages many substrates  . These were further stabilized by ATP depletion  . The migration of these oligomeric species on native gels was similar to that of untagged mature BiP  , purified from bacteria  . Moreover , cleavage by SubA led to the appearance of a similar set of cleavage products , suggesting that the in vivo oligomers may also be comprised of one BiP protomer engaging the interdomain linker of another at its SBD . Trans-engagement of the linker by the substrate binding domain  as the basis for BiP oligomerization in vivo . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from lysates of CHO-K1 cells resolved by native-PAGE . The major species observed on the native gel have been numbered I-III by order of descending mobility and the two forms of BiP detected in the higher mobility region of the gel  are indicated . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from CHO-K1 cells lysed in presence of hexokinase and glucose to deplete ATP  or mature hamster BiP  expressed in Escherichia coli and resolved on the same native gel . Where indicated the lysate and or pure BiP were exposed to SubA  . Immunoblot of the same sample resolved by SDS-PAGE  . The free nucleotide binding domain  is undetected by this antiserum that recognizes the C-terminus of BiP . Anti-FLAG and anti-BiP immunoblots of native gels of ATP-depleted lysates from CHO-K1 cells transfected with the indicated BiP constructs bearing an S649A mutation abolishing their reactivity with the anti-BiP R22 serum . The lysates were split and exposed to SubA as in ‘B’ . Anti-FLAG , anti-endogenous BiP  and anti-eIF2α  immunoblots of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE are presented in the panels below . Note that the FLAG-tagged exogenous BiP proteins are not recognized by the polyclonal anti-rodent BiP antiserum due to the S649A substitution . Anti-FLAG immunoblot of ATP-depleted lysates from CHO-K1 cells transfected with the indicated BiP derivatives and resolved by native-PAGE . ATP  was added to lysates loaded in lanes 4 , 7 and 10  to dissociate oligomeric species . To aid interpretation , a schema of the BiP species involved is provided to the side of the gel . The BiP NBD is colored blue its SBD orange and the interdomain linker green . Note that the BiP complexes represented by species II in lanes 9 and 10 are resistant to both , SubA and ATP . Note: To promote BiP oligomerization in vivo , the CHO-K1 cells in panels B-D were treated with thapsigargin  . Defective homo-oligomerization of ADDA mutant BiP . Coomassie-stained native gel of wildtype  , V461F , ADDA and compound ADDA-V461F mutant BiP  purified from E . A schema of the BiP species involved in the experiment in ‘A’ above and in Figure 7 . The BiP nucleotide binding domain  is colored blue , its substrate binding domain  orange and the interdomain linker green . SubA is cartooned by scissors . BiPV461F is unable to engage in substrate binding and its interdomain linker is unprotected . BiPADDA , which is able to bind substrates is unable to undergo linker-binding mediated homo-oligomerization , and is uncleaved by SubA  . BiPADDA and BiPV461F are able to form heterodimers , but these are resistant to cleavage by SubA . 018 To explore this possibility further , we exploited the observation that BiPADDA was resistant to cleavage by SubA and was unable to serve as a substrate for linker engagement at the SBD . Plasmids encoding FLAG-tagged wildtype BiP or BiPADDA were transfected into CHO-K1 cells and the migration of the exogenously introduced BiP and endogenous BiP were examined by native-PAGE immunoblot , before and after in vitro cleavage of the interdomain linker by SubA . To minimize the contribution of the exogenous BiP to the endogenous BiP signal on the immunoblot , we introduced an S649A mutation into the exogenous wildtype and ADDA mutant proteins . This converts residue 649 of the exogenous FLAG-tagged hamster BiP to that found in primates and eliminates its recognition by the R22 antiserum raised against the rodent sequence  . The FLAG-tagged BiPADDA;S649A was also incorporated into indistinguishable higher molecular weight species , however , unlike the endogenous BiP in the same lysate , the FLAG-tagged BiPADDA;S649A-containing oligomers were completely resistant to cleavage by SubA  . Given that BiPADDA is defective in homo-oligomerization  , the oligomers observed in vivo were consistent with hetero-oligomers between endogenous BiP and the FLAG-tagged BiPADDA;S649A in which the FLAG-tagged BiPADDA;S649A is incorporated as a terminal protomer  , protecting the interdomain linker of the endogenous BiP from digestion with SubA by engagement in the SBD of the BiPADDA;S649A mutant . Further support for oligomerization by linker engagement in trans , was provided by an experiment in which a FLAG-tagged BiPV461F  was introduced into CHO-K1 cells alongside  wildtype BiP or  BiPADDA and the effect of the co-expressed  BiP on the disposition of the interdomain linker of the FLAG-tagged BiPV461F mutant was probed by cleavage with SubA . In the absence of exogenous BiP , or in the presence of over-expressed wildtype BiP , all FLAG-tagged BiPV461F-containing species were affected by SubA , indicating that in each species at least one protomer has an exposed , cleavable interdomain linker  . By contrast , oligomers assembled in the presence of the  BiPADDA were strongly protected from SubA-mediated cleavage  . In addition , the oligomers of FLAG-tagged BiPV461F formed in the presence of untagged BiPADDA were maintained when ATP was added to the lysate  . These observations point to BiPADDA , which is both resistant to cleavage by SubA and impaired in nucleotide-dependent allosteric transitions   , engaging the interdomain linker of the FLAG-tagged BiPV461F in vivo and protecting it from digestion  . Exposure of cells to the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide had a profound effect on the distribution of anti-BiP reactive species in the native gel . BiP oligomeric status responds to changes in ER unfolded protein load . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from CHO-K1 cell lysates resolved by native-PAGE . Immunoblot of the same sample resolved by SDS-PAGE  reports on total BiP loaded and on eIF2α as a loading control . The lower panels report on the levels of BiP , total eIF2α and phosphorylated eIF2α in the lysates . ATP was depleted from all samples during cell lysis . Time-course of evolution of the cycloheximide-dependent ‘B’ form of BiP . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from ATP-depleted lysates of CHO-K1 cells resolved by native-PAGE after the indicated time of exposure to cycloheximide  . Immunoblot of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE  reports on total BiP loaded and on eIF2α as a loading control . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from lysates of CHO-K1 resolved by native-PAGE following the indicated pharmacological manipulations , as in Figure 8C  . The lysates were prepared without ATP depletion . Note: In absence of ATP depletion BiP oligomers dissociated into a high-mobility form of species I , ‘A’ form , whose relationship to the ‘B’ form is thereby highlighted . The same samples were applied to SDS-PAGE and BiP and eIF2α were detected as a loading control . 020 Elaboration of the ‘B’ form and depletion of oligomers was also observed by application of an orthogonal method to attenuate the burden of newly synthesized unfolded proteins in the ER: Activation of a modified eIF2α kinase , Fv2E-PERK , by a dimerising drug AP20187  , also led to accumulation of the ‘B’ form of BiP , apparently at the expense of oligomeric forms of BiP  . Kinetic analysis showed concordance between dissociation of the oligomers and appearance of the ‘B’ form  , which furthermore occurred on a timescale previously reported for accumulation of ADP ribosylated BiP  or AMPylated BiP  in cycloheximide-treated cells . Challenging cells with agents that perturb the protein folding environment in the ER and thereby increase BiP's clientele also led to diminution of oligomers , but without a commensurate increase in the ‘B’ form . This was evident in cells treated with the glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin , the proline analog azetidine and the reducing agent dithiothreitol  and is consistent with competition between substrates and other BiP molecules for the chaperone's SBD  . The ER lumenal calcium-depleting agent , thapsigargin , a strong activator of the UPR  , stood out as an important exception: Unlike the other manipulations , which activate the UPR by affecting the structure of ER client proteins , thapsigargin , an inhibitor of the smooth ER calcium reuptake  pump that depletes ER calcium  , promoted BiP oligomerization  . The distribution of BiP into oligomeric forms followed rapidly upon depletion of lumenal calcium , being observed within 10 min of application of thapsigargin  , a point at which lumenal calcium levels  declined markedly  . Oligomerization was sustained throughout the period of lumenal calcium depletion and was noted well before the thapsigargin-mediated attenuation in the levels of the ‘B’ form of BiP  . The latter observation suggests that the well documented mobilization of the modified  ‘B’ form of BiP by ER calcium depletion  occurs on a timescale that is too long to account for the rapid increase in BiP oligomers upon ER calcium depletion and that a pool of BiP , distinct from the ‘B’ form , is tapped for oligomerization early upon calcium release . Similar observations were made in CHO-K1 cells exposed to the calcium ionophore A23187 , pointing to the role of lumenal calcium fluctuations  in the re-distribution of BiP amongst its various forms  . Rapid BiP oligomerization in response to ER calcium depletion . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from ATP-depleted lysates of CHO-K1 cells resolved by native-PAGE . Immunoblot of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE  reports on total BiP loaded and on eIF2α as a loading control . 021 To determine if physiological levels of calcium mobilization also resulted in changes in BiP's oligomeric status we exploited the presence of purinergic receptors on the surface of CHO-K1 cells to promote ER calcium depletion by their engagement with a physiological ligand , extracellular ATP . This was correlated with a rapid and transient increase in BiP oligomers , observed over a similar time frame  . Extracellular ATP was linked to BiP oligomerization through a canonical signaling cascade , as it was attenuated by simultaneous application of the phospholipase C blocking drug U73122  . Phospholipase C inhibition had no effect on the downstream-acting thapsigargin's ability to promote BiP oligomerization  , pointing to the specificity of U73122 in interfering with BiP oligomerization by attenuating signaling downstream of the purinergic receptor . Purinergic receptor engagement promotes BiP oligomerization at physiological levels of ER calcium depletion . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from ATP-depleted lysates of CHO-K1 cells resolved by native-PAGE . Where indicated the cells were exposed to cycloheximide  followed by ATP . Immunoblots of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE are shown below the native gels and report on total BiP loaded and on eIF2α as a loading control . Native-PAGE immunoblot of endogenous BiP . Immunoblot of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE  reports on total BiP loaded and on eIF2α as a loading control . 022 As lumenal calcium depletion-mediated oligomerization does not appear to draw , initially , on the inactive ‘B’ form of BiP , we sought to examine the alternative , whereby thapsigargin-mediated calcium depletion might have correlated with dissociation of BiP from its unfolded clients to form oligomers . ER calcium depletion led to diminished recovery of BiP in complex with a misfolded truncated ER client protein , the product of the null Hong Kong allele of α1-antitrypsin  , introduced by transfection into CHO-K1 cells  . Similar observations were made in regard to the complex between BiP and immunoglobulin heavy chain  ; it too was observed to partially dissociate in thapsigargin-treated cells  . Lumenal calcium depletion-mediated dissociation of BiP from its client proteins . SDS-PAGE and immunoblot of BiP and FLAG-tagged misfolded null Hong Kong variant of α1-antitrypsin  in ATP-depleted lysates of transfected CHO-K1 cells  or recovered in an anti-FLAG immunoprecipitation . The recovery of BiP , normalized to the α1-antitrypsin signal in the immunoprecipitation , is noted below each lane and is set to 100% in the untreated sample . Shown is a representative experiment reproduced three times with similar , Tg-mediated disruption of the BiP-AAT complex . SDS-PAGE and immunoblot of BiP and immunoglobulin heavy chain  in ATP-depleted lysates of transfected CHO-K1 cells  or recovered in complex with S . The recovery of BiP , normalized to the immunoglobulin heavy chain signal in the protein A complex , is noted below each lane and is set to 100% in the untreated sample . Shown is a representative experiment reproduced three times with similar , Tg-mediated disruption of the BiP-IgHC complex . SDS-PAGE and immunoblot of endogenous BiP and amylase in ATP-depleted lysates of AR42j cells  or following immunoprecipitation of BiP from the same  . The recovery of amylase , normalized to the BiP signal in the immunoprecipitation is noted below each lane and is set to 100% in the untreated sample . Shown is a representative experiment reproduced three times with similar , CCK-mediated disruption of the BiP-amylase complex . SDS-PAGE and immunoblot of endogenous BiP and amylase from ATP-depleted lysates of AR42j cells  and recovered in an anti-amylase immunoprecipitation  , or two mock IPs . The recovery of BiP , normalized to the amylase signal in the immunoprecipitation , is noted below each lane and is set to 100% in the untreated sample . The immunoprecipitated sample in lane 4 was subjected to an ATP elution step , to confirm that BiP associated with amylase through a conventional substrate-binding mechanism . Shown is a representative experiment reproduced three times with similar , CCK-mediated disruption of the amylase–BiP complex . Cholecystokinin-mediated lumenal calcium depletion promotes BiP oligomerization in AR42j cells . Immunoblot of endogenous BiP from ATP-depleted lysates of AR42j cells resolved by native-PAGE . The major species observed on the native gel have been numbered I-III by order of descending mobility , as are the two forms of BiP detected in the higher mobility region of the gel  . BiP and amylase immunoblots of the same samples resolved by SDS-PAGE are presented in the panels below . Note that the CCK-mediated increase in abundance of BiP oligomers is highlighted on the background of BFA treatment . 024 To test the impact of physiological calcium depletion from the ER on the abundance of complexes between endogenous BiP and an endogenous client , we turned to pancreatic AR42j cells , which differentiate to amylase-producing acinar cells by exposure to dexamethasone . Consistent with increased synthesis of secretory proteins , fewer BiP oligomers were observed in differentiated cells whereas stimulation with cholecystokinin , which engages a cell surface receptor linked to ER calcium depletion  , enhanced oligomerization  . Cholecystokinin also promoted dissociation of amylase , a major secretory product of pancreatic acinar cells , from BiP  . Reciprocally , BiP associated with amylase was also diminished by cholecystokinin  . The BiP:amylase complex that was diminished by calcium depletion in vivo was also sensitive to ATP in vitro  , confirming that it represented engagement of a conventional client by BiP . These findings confirmed that ER lumenal calcium depletion , induced by a physiological ligand that promotes BiP oligomerization , also disfavored interaction of endogenous BiP with an endogenous client . Together , these observations establish a negative correlation between BiP oligomerization and client binding . BiP oligomers were observed here to form by engagement of the hydrophobic interdomain linker of one BiP protomer as a typical substrate of an adjacent BiP protomer . This process , revealed by monitoring the accessibility of BiP's interdomain linker to a sequence-specific protease , SubA , and by site-specific crosslinking , is conspicuous in preparations of pure proteins in vitro , and in living cells . BiP oligomerization is rapidly tuned to the physiological state of the cell , and given that oligomerization inactivates participating BiP protomers , the oligomeric form is a relatively inactive storage form of the chaperone that is accessible on a short time scale . Given the role of these very same side chains in allosteric coupling between the NBD and SBD , this mode of BiP oligomerization results in removal of the BiP protomers involved from the pool of active chaperones . The proposed architecture of the oligomers  fits well with our finding of a single peptide binding site available in BiP oligomers formed in vitro , regardless of their size  . Our in vitro experiments provide a crude guide to the stability of BiP oligomers . In vivo , oligomer assembly and disassembly is likely to be influenced by co-chaperones of the DnaJ family that enhance ATP hydrolysis to promote the high affinity state and exchange factors , such as GRP170 and SIL1 , that convert BiP to the low affinity state by exchanging ADP for ATP . These co-factors are likely to have an important role in the kinetics of the inter-conversion of BiP monomers to oligomers and in the competing processes of substrate binding and release . Nonetheless , the high concentration of BiP in the ER  and the inherent affinity of BiP protomers for one another , are consistent with a model whereby oligomerization and substrate binding compete with each other on a level playing field . Our observations paint a coherent picture whereby enhanced production of unfolded proteins rapidly draws on the pool of inactive , oligomeric BiP to service its growing clientele . The ER is unusual in possessing alternative mechanisms for inactivating its Hsp70 protein , BiP , by covalent modification   and AMPylation  . The modified form of BiP appears to equilibrate with the active pool more slowly than the oligomers . Conversion of BiP to the modified , inactive form proceeds on a longer time scale . Either way it seems likely that the physiological impact of both oligomerization and modification is to enable the cell to avoid the cost of over-chaperoning  without having to degrade surplus BiP as stress is resolved and to provide cells with an inactive reserve of BiP to draw upon as stress mounts , without resorting to activation of the translational and transcriptional arms of the UPR . Schema of the proposed relationships between the different forms of BiP . The monomer  at the center of the schema binds clients and is shifted to BiP:Substrate complexes by mounting unfolded protein load . The ‘A’ form is also in equilibrium with modified BiP  and this equilibrium too is influenced by unfolded protein burden but on a slower time scale than oligomer formation and disassembly . The inverse correlation between unfolded protein burden and BiP oligomerization appears to break down in the context of ER calcium depletion , which is both a strong inducer of the UPR and promotes rapid oligomerization of BiP . This apparent paradox needs to be considered in the context of observations that BiP oligomerization upon calcium depletion also correlates with less substrate binding  and with the observation that calcium depletion-mediated oligomerization slowly draws on the modified , inactive pool of BiP . From BiP's perspective , oligomerization appears to be the primary event triggered by ER calcium efflux . This depletes the pool of active chaperones and disrupts , by mass action , chaperone-client interactions , releasing clients that would otherwise have remained bound to BiP . The ensuing , slower loss of the modified form of BiP is consistent with equilibrium between the modified form and the monomer and its latency is consistent with the need for enzymes to remove the modifications . In vitro , there is no measureable effect of calcium on BiP oligomerization , in either the ATP state or ADP state or in the presence of the J-factor ERdj3 or the exchange factor GRP170  , yet in vivo , ER calcium depletion promotes such oligomerization . This discrepancy could be resolved by an ER-localized J-factor whose affinity for BiP as a substrate is increased selectively as  ER declines . Given that the affinity of Hsp70 proteins for their substrates is governed by J-protein driven non-equilibrium mechanisms  , such a scenario could account for BiP favoring itself as a client  over other clients , as  ER declines . Regardless of mechanism , one consequence of  ER depletion-mediated BiP oligomerization would be to also shift the equilibrium between unfolded proteins and active chaperones in favor of the former . Furthermore , given the 1:1 stoichiometry of the repressive complex formed between BiP and the lumenal , stress-sensing domains of the UPR transducers PERK and IRE1  , it seems likely that the monomer serves as a UPR repressor . Thus ,  ER depletion-mediated oligomerization of BiP stands to contribute to UPR activation by increasing the burden of free unfolded proteins and by lowering the availability of monomeric BiP to repress the stress transducers . Calcium depletion-mediated oligomerization of BiP is observed in physiological circumstances , as a consequence of engagement of cell surface receptors by activating ligands that couple to store release channels . We do not know if oligomerization of BiP and its downstream consequences are a feature that promotes fitness  or simply a reflection of limitations in the functionality of an organelle that experiences fluctuations in the concentration of calcium , imposed by other exigencies , such as the benefits of signaling in the cytosol by the released calcium . However , it is tempting to speculate that the transient excursions of UPR signaling imposed by BiP oligomerization may have some benefit . It is thus tempting to speculate that calcium depletion-mediated BiP oligomerization contributes to transient activation of the UPR observed in secretory cells responding to secretagogues  and thereby promotes long-term coupling of the capacity to produce and process precursors of secretory proteins to the short-term demand for the secreted end product . Wildtype and mutant versions of N-terminally hexahistidine-  tagged hamster BiP  were encoded on pQE10 plasmids  and expressed in M15 E . Bound BiP protein was eluted in buffer B ( 50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7 . The purified BiP proteins were concentrated using centrifugal filters  , snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at −80°C . Mature hamster BiP  was purified via an N-terminal His6-Smt3 tag , which can be removed by cleavage with the Smt3-specific protease Ulp1 . For that the hamster BiP-encoding sequence was inserted downstream of a His6-Smt3-encoding sequence into pCA528  resulting in a His6-Smt3-BiP fusion construct  . The cells were then harvested , lysed and His6-Smt3-BiP was affinity purified with Ni-NTA agarose beads as described above . The BiP-containing fractions were pooled , diluted in buffer D  to reduce the ionic strength and loaded onto a Mono Q 5/50 GL anion exchange chromatography column  . The BiP-enriched eluate fractions were pooled and buffer was exchanged against HKM using a Centri•Pure P25 desalting column  . Purified authentic BiP was concentrated and stored as described above . Purified BiP proteins were diluted from concentrated stocks to 50 µM in HKM buffer  and incubated  in a final volume of 20 µl at room temperature for 16 hr before the experiments . Where indicated the samples were treated with ATP and SubA for 20 min before the SEC run . For quantification of incorporation of fluorescently labeled substrate peptide per BiP mass Gaussian curves were fitted to absorbance and fluorescence traces with the program MagicPlot Student 2 . Multiangle light scattering  measurement of BiP monomers and oligomeric complexes was performed immediately following SEC by inline detection of static light scattering  , differential refractive index  , and UV absorbance at 280 nm  . A 100 µl sample of purified wildtype BiP  was passed through a Superdex 200 Increase 10/300 gel filtration column  equilibrated in HKM at a flow rate of 0 . Samples of purified BiP proteins  were incubated in HKM with 3 mM ATP in a final volume of 20 µl for 60 min at 30°C . Purified BiP proteins  were incubated with or without ATP or BiP-binding peptide  in HKM buffer at 25°C as described . For dissociation experiments BiP was diluted from a 50 µM stock solution to 0 . Site-specific incorporation of the photoactivatable crosslinking amino acid p-benzoyl-L-phenylalanine  into C-terminally His6-tagged BiP proteins was performed using the amber codon suppression system developed in the Schultz lab  . For small-scale purification of pBpa-derivatized BiP proteins  the cells were lysed with 200 µg/ml lysozyme  in low-salt buffer ( 10 mM Tris–HCl pH 8 . Large-scale purification of pBpa-derivatized BiP proteins for crosslinking experiments was performed by Ni-affinity chromatography as described above in the ‘protein purification’ section for N-terminally His6-tagged BiP proteins with the exception that after binding of the proteins to the Ni-NTA affinity matrix the beads were additionally incubated with 67 µg/ml RNase A  , 67 mU/ml RNase T1   and protease inhibitors in HKM buffer for 30 min at 25°C . Proteins eluting with the same retention time as monomeric BiP were aliquoted and stored at −80°C . BiP-3xFLAG  was pre-incubated with 0 . The mixtures were further incubated for 16 hr at 25°C to allow for efficient formation of stable trans BiP complexes , following hydrolysis of the ATP . Limited proteolysis of BiP was performed as previously described  . Briefly , 10 µg of BiP proteins were digested in HKM buffer with 2 µg Proteinase K  in a final volume of 65 µl at 37°C with or without added nucleotides as indicated . For detection of endogenous BiP by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis  the cells were lysed in HG lysis buffer containing 2 × protease inhibitors  with or without 100 U/ml hexokinase  as described above and samples were loaded immediately on native or SDS-polyacrylamide gels . To detect BiP oligomers the gels were run in a Mini-PROTEAN electrophoresis chamber  in running buffer  at 120 V for 2 hr when cell lysates were applied or for 1:45 hr when His6-tagged purified BiP proteins were analyzed . 7 µg of purified protein was loaded per lane on a native gel to detect BiP oligomers by Coomassie staining and 30 µg mammalian cell lysates were loaded per lane to detect endogenous BiP by immunoblotting . Primary antibodies and antisera against hamster BiP ( chicken α-BiP;  , eIF2α  , phosphorylated eIF2α  , the FLAG-tag  , human IgG  , amylase  and the C-terminus of hamster BiP  ) were used . For co-immunoprecipitation of endogenous BiP with the FLAG-tagged null Hong Kong variant of α1-antitrypsin  CHO-K1 cells were transfected with the method described above and treated without or with 1 µM thapsigargin for 5 min before lysis in HG lysis buffer supplemented with protease inhibitors and hexokinase . Equal volumes of the samples were loaded on a 12% SDS polyacrylamide-gel and AAT-NHK-3xFLAG and endogenous BiP were detected by immunoblotting with FLAG- and BiP-specific antibodies . To analyze the interaction of endogenous BiP with immunoglobulin heavy chain  transfected CHO-K1 cells were treated and lysed as described above . The proteins were eluted in 50 µl 2x SDS sample buffer for 10 min at 75°C and equal volumes of the samples were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting with antibodies directed against hamster BiP and human IgG . The interaction of BiP with amylase was studied in AR42j cells . Equal volumes of the cleared and normalized lysates were incubated for 2 hr at 4°C with 20 µl UltraLink Hydrazine Resin  on which BiP-specific chicken IgY antibodies have been covalently immobilized according to the manufacturer's instructions . Endogenous BiP as well as amylase were detected by immunoblotting . 5 mM ATP for 5 min at 4°C and twice with HG lysis buffer with or without 1 mM ATP . Proteins were then eluted in 2× SDS sample buffer , separated by SDS-PAGE and amylase and BiP were detected by immunoblotting . 
Flexible filamentous viruses include economically important plant pathogens . Their viral particles contain several hundred copies of a helically arrayed coat protein  protecting a  ssRNA . We describe here a structure at 3 . 9 Å resolution , from electron cryomicroscopy , of Pepino mosaic virus  , a representative of the genus Potexvirus  . Our results allow modeling of the CP and its interactions with viral RNA . The overall fold of PepMV CP resembles that of nucleoproteins  from the genus Phlebovirus  , a group of enveloped  ssRNA viruses . The main difference between potexvirus CP and phlebovirus NP is in their C-terminal extensions , which appear to determine the characteristics of the distinct multimeric assemblies – a flexuous , helical rod or a loose ribonucleoprotein . The homology suggests gene transfer between eukaryotic  and  ssRNA viruses . Flexible filamentous viruses are ubiquitous plant pathogens that have an enormous impact in agriculture  . Their infective particles are non-enveloped and flexible rod-shaped virions  and contain several hundreds of copies of a coat protein  arranged in a helical fashion protecting a ssRNA of positive polarity , or  ssRNA  . Structural studies of virions by X-ray fiber diffraction and cryoEM have indeed revealed a common architecture for flexible plant viruses . This overall arrangement is shared by Soybean mosaic virus  a potyvirus  , and three different potexviruses  , Potato virus X  , Papaya mosaic virus  , and Narcissus mosaic virus   . The flexibility of the virions has limited high-resolution structural studies , and most of the previous data were at moderate resolution . Very recently , the cryoEM structure of Bamboo mosaic virus  , another potexvirus , was determined at 5 . 6 Å  , and the CP was modeled based on the atomic structure of a truncated version of the CP from Papaya mosaic virus   . The work revealed that N- and C-terminal extensions of the CP mediate viral polymerization and allow for the flexuous nature of the virions . Pepino mosaic virus  is another potexvirus which has emerged recently  , progressing from endemic to epidemic in tomato crops causing severe economic losses worldwide  . PepMV is transmitted by mechanical contact and virions contain a  ssRNA of about 6 . The PepMV CP is strictly required for cell-to-cell movement of the virus  . We present the cryoEM structure of PepMV virions at 3 . 9 Å of resolution . The near-atomic three-dimensional  map allows for accurate modeling of the CP , the viral RNA , and their interaction . In vivo functional studies of several CP mutants confirm the role of several residues in RNA binding and polymerization . Surprisingly , we have also found a clear structural homology between the CP of flexuous viruses and the NP of the genus Phlebovirus , a group of enveloped viruses with a segmented  ssRNA genome . Despite the divergence of both viral groups , CP from potexviruses and NP from phleboviruses have the same all α-helix fold , and their high similarity suggests a horizontal gene transfer event between these evolutionary distant groups of eukaryotic RNA viruses . We have analyzed by cryoEM PepMV virions isolated from infected Nicotiana benthamiana plants  . The 3D map at 3 . The cryoEM map reveals a left-handed helix with a diameter of 130 Å and an inner narrow channel of 13 Å , and the structure shows a pitch of 34 . 7 CP copies per turn . This overall helical arrangement is in agreement with previous works with other potexviruses  , but in the current case and in the recent cryoEM structure of BaMV  the attained resolutions allowed a clear assignment of the symmetry . Our cryoEM map reaches near-atomic resolution , to date the highest resolution structural data for a flexible filamentous virion , where bulky protein side chains are discernible  . This allowed us to generate an atomic model for PepMV CP  by iterative modeling starting with the atomic structure of PapMV CP  . The PepMV CP structure thus generated has three major regions: the core; an N-terminal flexible arm; and a C-terminal extension . The modeled structure for PepMV CP is , as defined for PapMV CP , an all-helix fold , and the low RMSD between the two structures  reflects their clear homology  . CryoEM structure of PepMV and atomic model for its CP . Renderings of the 3D density map for PepMV that displays a left-handed helical symmetry with 34 . 6 Å of helical pitch  . The cut-away view  reveals the location of the ssRNA  . Close-up view of a region from the cryoEM map rendered in semi-transparent mode , together with the atomic model calculated for PepMV CP . Isolated density for a PepMV CP subunit shown semi-transparent , and representation of the PepMVCP atomic model . Color code for PepMV CP domains: core region , blue; N-terminal arm , purple; and C-terminal extension , yellow . CP , coat protein , PepMV , Pepino mosaic virus , PepMV CP , Pepino mosaic virus coat protein . Electron micrograph of PepMV cryoEM data . Field of an electron micrograph showing several PepMV virions . PepMV , Pepino mosaic virus . Helical symmetry search . The visual inspection of these initial maps lead to the selection of the helical symmetry for PepMV sample  . The high resolution of the final cryoEM map and its structural details confirmed the correct helical parameters . CP , coat protein . Estimation of resolution for the cryoEM map of PepMV virions . Fourier Shell Correlation  calculated between 3D maps from two fully independently processed halves of the data set  and between the atomic model and the cryoEM map  . 14 estimates the resolution at 3 . PepMV , Pepino mosaic virus . Local resolution measurement in isolated PepMV CP subunit . Segmented density for a single PepMV CP subunit is rendered in two orientations showing the estimated local resolution . The calculations were performed with the raw cryoEM map , but only one PepMV CP subunit is shown for clarity . CP , coat protein; PepMV , epino mosaic virus . Comparison between modeled PepMV CP and the atomic structure of PapMV CP . Comparison between the built atomic model for PepMV CP  and the reported structure for the truncated version of PapMV CP ( colored grey; pdb code 1DOX  ) . The ssRNA belongs to the current model for PepMV virion . The RMSD between the structures in the core region is of 1 . Comparison of the current model for PepMV CP and the atomic model for BaMV ( colored brown; pdb code 5A2T  . The RMSD between both structures in the core region is of 3 . The black arrow indicates a discrepancy between both atomic models in their secondary structure . Table of some figures of merit for the structure of the modeled PepMV CP . Short table with figures of merit calculated in Molprobity for the validation of the atomic model of PepMV CP . PepMV CP , Pepino mosaic virus coat proteinDOI: http://dx . 009 The high level of structural details of our cryoEM map permits the segmentation of the density for the ssRNA and the analysis of the protein–RNA interactions . The ssRNA runs in a helix of 70 Å in diameter  . Each CP binds five ribonucleotides  , so that the entire genome of PepMV would require 1290 copies of PepMV CP spanning 510 nm  , which agrees with the 509 nm length originally reported for the virus  . In order to explore the protein–ssRNA interactions , we modeled a polyU and included a set of four PepMV CP monomers in a molecular dynamics flexible fitting  simulation   . Local resolution measurements in the cryoEM map suggest a high variability in positions 3 and 4 at the segmented density for the ssRNA  . Several amino acids display potential interactions with the phosphate backbone of the ssRNA . Interaction between PepMV CP and ssRNA . Cut-away rendering of four PepMV CP subunits at consecutive turns of the helix with the ssRNA between them . Structural detail for the density of the ssRNA associated to a single PepMV CP . ssRNA is a polyU model with five nucleotides . The inset renders the density region for ssRNA according to local resolution measurements  . Trans-complementation assays between PepGFPΔCP and several CP mutants . Western blot analysis of the presence of PepMV CP in preparations of fully assembled virions from trans-complementation assays . PepMV CP , Pepino mosaic virus coat protein . Rendering of the atomic model construction used during MDFF for the analysis of the protein-RNA interfaces . Representation of four PepMV subunits and two molecules of ssRNA obtained after MDFF . The set was chosen to explore protein–protein and protein–RNA interactions . CP1 and CP4 also contain the N-terminal arms from adjacent subunits , whereas CP2 and CP3 lack their N-terminal arms . The set was fitted inside a region of the cryoEM map for PepMV . CP , coat protein; MDFF , molecular dynamics flexible fitting; PepMV , Pepino mosaic virus . Progress of the MDFF measured as the improvement of the cross-correlation between the atomic coordinates  and the cryoEM map for PepMV along the 40 ns of the MDFF run . Sequence alignment between CP from several representatives of the genus Potexvirus . The alignment includes CP sequences from: Pepino mosaic virus   , Papaya mosaic virus   ; Bamboo mosaic virus   , Potato aucuba mosaic virus   ; Potato virus X   ; Narcissus mosaic virus   ; White clover mosaic virus   ; Lily X virus   ; Cymbidium mosaic virus   ; Plantago asiatica mosaic virus   ; and Foxtail mosaic virus   . The most conserved region includes D163 in PepMV CP  , one of the amino acids at the binding pocket for the ssRNA . CP , coat protein . 013 We tested several PepMV CP mutants in trans-complementation assays  . Here , a PepMV construct that expresses GFP instead of CP  acts as reporter of the complementation by the co-expression of selected CP mutants . The fluorescent signal by GFP allowed following the cell-to-cell movement of the virus . The results  reveal that the three amino acids at the binding pocket for nucleotide at position 2  are required to complement the cell-to-cell movement of the CP-defective PepMV mutant , suggesting a disruption of the CP-RNA interaction needed in virus intercellular transport . We also tested the production of fully assembled virions analyzing by Western blot virion preparations from infected leaves  . Attempts to purify PepMV virions were only fruitful for the wt and for the Q203A mutant  , suggesting the lack of full viral assembly in the rest of PepMV CP mutants . Single amino acid changes appear to impair CP-RNA binding , probably including a cooperative effect between the hundreds of CP copies that build the virions . As described for BaMV  , the helical assembly of PepMV is mediated by the CP N-terminal arm and C-terminal extension . The N-terminal arm from the Ni subunit interacts with a hydrophobic groove of the Ni-1 subunit and establishes the main side-by-side contact in the helical arrangement  . A similar type of interaction was observed between subunits in the crystal structure of PapMV CP via amino acid F13  , and for BaMV , by residue W41  . We tested in vivo the relevance of F28 in the assembly of PepMV by assaying a PepMVCP F28A mutant in trans-complementation and viral purification experiments . The F28 mutant allows cell-to-cell movement  but does not produce fully assembled virions  , suggesting that the tested mutation allows for the functional separation of the cell-to-cell movement of PepMV from the encapsidation of fully assembled virions , reinforcing the notion of a non-virion RNP structure during the intercellular movement of potexviruses through plasmodesmata  . Interactions through N- and C-terminal flexible regions mediate PepMV assembly . Ni subunit links to a hydrophobic groove in the Ni-1 subunit via the N-terminal arm . In the Ni-1 subunit a pocket of hydrophobic residues allocates F28 from the Ni adjacent subunit . The analysis by Western blot of virion preparations show no signal for fully assembled virions in the trans-complementation with F28A mutant . Six segmented densities for PepMVCP are seen from the inner side of the virion . The subunit Ni is depicted semi-transparent and includes a ribbon representation for the atomic model for PepMV CP . PepMV CP , Pepino mosaic virus coat protein . org/10 . 014 On the other hand , the C-terminal extension , a long coil with a short α-helix in its last part , builds the inner wall of the virus  . As for BaMV  , the flexible links between PepMV CPs via N-terminal arm and C-terminal region allow for relative movements between CPs and explain the flexuous nature of the virions . All the high-resolution structures for flexuous filamentous plant viruses correspond to representatives of the genus Potexvirus  and include our current data and previously reported structures of PapMV CP  and BaMV virions  . We cannot confirm whether members of other families of flexuous filamentous viruses  have a similar fold in their CPs . The search revealed that the CP structure from potexviruses shares its topology with the NP of several representatives of genus Phlebovirus  , such as Rift Valley fever virus  , Toscana virus , and Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus  . Genera Potexvirus and Phlebovirus belong to different superfamilies of RNA viruses when these are classified based on phylogenetic relationships among RNA-dependent RNA polymerases  and also have different genomic organizations  . The topology of CP from potexviruses and of the NP from phleboviruses  are , nonetheless , very similar  and show a TM-score of 0 . The divergence between potexvirus CP and phlebovirus NP is in their C-terminal regions . The C-terminus in PepMV CP protrudes from the core domain  and allows longitudinal interactions for helix building . The location of the C-terminal arm in phlebovirus NPs cannot support a longitudinal assembly , and hence , their RNPs remain more loosely associated  than in their plant-virus counterparts . Structural homology between PepMV CP and NP from phleboviruses . The atomic structures for the modeled PepMV CP and for the NP from RVFV ( pdb code 4H5O  are depicted in similar orientations . PepMV CP , Pepino mosaic virus coat protein; NP , nucleoprotein . org/10 . 015 Both potexvirus CPs and phlebovirus NPs have in common that they bind and protect the genomic viral ssRNA . While potexvirus and the rest of flexible filamentous viruses infect plants , members of the genus Phlebovirus infect animals . A similar type of virus could have mediated the transfer of CP/NP genes between distant groups of viruses with different host range . Whether the rest of flexible filamentous plant viruses share these genes remains an open question . Virus preparations were obtained from N . benthamiana plants infected by PepMV-Sp13  . benthamiana plants were rubbed with a homogenate consisting of dried material from PepMV-Sp13 infected plants ground in 30 mM sodium phosphate pH 8 . Virions were purified from N . Virus concentration was estimated by OD readings at 260 nm , with ε0 . Virions were kept refrigerated  in suspension buffer  until observation . The PepMVCP gene was cloned into the binary vector pGWB2 giving raise to plasmid pGWB2-CP , and mutants were constructed based on this plasmid using standard overlapping PCR and molecular cloning methods  . For functional analysis , we tested the complementation of a PepMV construct  that expressed GFP instead of CP by trans CP expression of selected mutants  . Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 was transformed with the different CP constructs and used in trans-complementation assays . The resulting suspensions , carrying plasmids pBPepGFPΔCP  , the CP constructs and pBP19 , were mixed in a 3:3:2 ratio and 6 weeks old N . CP was detected by Western blotting in virion preparations and in protein extracts from leaves agroinfiltrated with CP constructs and pBP19 . Blots were probed with polyclonal antibodies raised in rabbits against PepMV CP  followed by detection with anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G  coupled to horseradish peroxidase  and chemiluminescence  . benthamiana plants were harvested and the tissue was used to purify PepMV virions as described above . The PepMV samples were applied to Quantifoil R 2/2 holey carbon grids previously coated with a thin layer of carbon . Global and local search of optimum helical symmetry parameters  resulted in helical rise/rotation of 3 . 1° per subunit  . The cryoEM images of helices were excised in overlapping segments of 218 Å length . The final cryoEM map for PepMV contains information from about 170 , 000 asymmetric units . 9 Å resolution  . The initial atomic model for PepMV CP was generated via iTasser  starting with the structure of the CP from PapMV  . The geometry of the ssRNA  was further improved using the Rossetta Erraser tool  . 9  through the MDFF plug-in  . The 3D cryoEM map for PepMV and the derived CP atomic model are deposited in the Electron Microscopy Data Bank  and the Protein Data Bank  under accession codes EMD-3236 and 5FN1 . 
Cellular morphology typically varies , and antibodies often bind heterogeneously across a cell surface , making traditional particle-averaging strategies challenging for accurate native antibody localization . In the present work , we have developed a method , SiteLoc , for imaging-based molecular localization on cellular surface proteins . Nanometer-scale resolution is achieved through localization in one dimension , namely , the distance from a bound ligand to a reference surface . This is done by using topological image averaging . Our results show that this method is well suited for antibody binding site measurements on native cell surface morphology and that it can be applied to other molecular distance estimations as well . Antibody binding to pathogen surface proteins plays a crucial role in immunity  , and epitope localization affects diverse immunological outcomes , such as antibody neutralizing ability  or autoreactivity  . While averaging methods for nanometer-scale localization on microscopy data exist , these do not work for binding sites on proteins with heterogeneous expression on the cellular surface . In the present work , we have developed an imaging-based method for localization of binding sites with nanometer-scale precision . The location of a binding site is determined by calculating the average distance between the ligand channel and a reference signal channel using the averaged fluorescent signal along a cell contour . To assess the performance of this method , we analyse simulated images , demonstrating high accuracy for varying surface expression and morphology . By measuring the height of DNA probes on erythrocyte surfaces , we show that our method can accurately estimate molecular heights on spherical and non-spherical cells . We apply the site localization method to determine known binding site locales on M protein that is unevenly expressed on the bacterial surface of Streptococcus pyogenes . Additionally , our method yields viable results when we perform site localization on widefield images with and without deconvolution . To sum up , our site localization method enables rapid determination of binding sites without the need for synthetic modification of cell surface morphology . Binding site localization is based on resolving the axial distance between bound ligands and a reference surface . This is done by implementing an averaging method on high-resolution images . With this method , nanometer-scale precision is achieved by dimension reduction of surface data within an image plane . A site localization measurement on antibody-coated bacteria is exemplified in Figure 1 . Fluorescently conjugated wheat germ agglutinin  that binds bacterial peptidoglycan is used here for the reference region , and antibodies that bind to bacterial M protein are labelled with another fluorescent dye for imaging in a separate channel  . The example shows how our method handles the uneven distribution of M protein on bacterial surfaces  . The pipeline for the site localization method is shown in Figure 1b . For each image , bacteria are identified in the reference channel by fitting circles to an edge-detection-processed image . Altogether , a relative binding site is determined by resolving the distance between the reference and antibody channel using the cumulative measurement from multiple repeated images . A strength of the method is that it can be used for particles with a non-spherical topology and uneven staining . To assess the performance of the site localization method , we generated simulated fluorescence images with variable surface staining and morphology . The reported accuracy for site localization measurements on the simulations in relation to number of cells is assessed and presented in Figure 2c . To explore sources of uncertainty in site localization measurements , additional images were simulated to represent different types of labelling  . The site localization uncertainty also increases when the SNR is decreased . These results demonstrate the robustness of the site localization method for varying surface expression and morphology . In order to test the method in vitro , we performed site localization measurements on surface-tethered dsDNA probes of known lengths . Images were acquired using an N-SIM microscope . To begin with , swelled spherical erythrocytes were analysed with the site localization method as well as with an existing method for determining molecular heights on spherical particles  . Site localization was thereafter performed on non-spherical erythrocytes and show results equivalent to that of spherical cells  . Altogether , we show that our method can accurately estimate molecular heights on spherical and non-spherical cellular surfaces . Site localization measurements that were performed for ligands on bacterial M protein agree well with previously reported data . The antibody Fc binding site on M protein is located at the S region  , and a non-specific monoclonal IgG antibody  is used for site localization of this binding . Images of single bacteria were acquired using an N-SIM microscope . 6  nm for the Xolair Fc binding site , 6 . 2  nm for Ab49 Fab binding site , and 18 . 0  nm for the two fibrinogen binding sites . The reported accuracy for site localization measurements on S . To further explore sources of uncertainty in site localization measurements , the antibody binding sites were measured with secondary antibody labelling and compared to direct labelling  . By performing site localization measurements on widefield images , we show that our method can yield viable results even with conventional microscopy data . Moreover , deconvolution of the widefield images may yield an increase in precision . Comparison of site localization measurements using SIM and widefield was performed on two sets of samples; fibrinogen- and Xolair-coated S . pyogenes . Widefield and SIM images were acquired on separate datasets . For the fibrinogen samples  , the median resolved distance between the two channels is  18 . 0  nm with SIM data , 38 . 5  nm with widefield data , and 40 . 1  nm with deconvolved widefield data . For the Xolair samples  , the median resolved distance for the Xolair Fc binding site is 5 . 6  nm with SIM data , 12 . 3  nm with widefield data , and 14 . 2  nm with deconvolved widefield data . This indicates that the site localization method performs well with widefield images and that the precision can be increased through deconvolution . The locations of protein binding sites on cellular surfaces are important for a wide range of cellular processes . We have developed a method for imaging-based localization of binding sites on cellular surface proteins with nanometer-scale precision . Here , an ~10 nm  precision is achieved with diffraction-limited microscopy images by dimension reduction of surface data within an image plane . Existing imaging-based averaging methods are designed for identical or spherical particles and therefore not suited for site localization on native cell surface morphology . This is made possible with our method through normalization of the axial positions of a reference surface . To assess the performance of the site localization method , we analysed simulated images with variable staining and morphology . These results indicate that a 1 nm precision could be achievable under ideal conditions and show that the site localization method is highly accurate for varying topologies and inhomogeneous surface expression . To test our method in vitro , we measured the height of DNA probes on erythrocyte surfaces . These results validate that our method can accurately estimate molecular heights on spherical and non-spherical cells . Additionally , the results for spherical cells were confirmed using an existing method for site localization on spherical objects , showing good agreement . We have applied our site localization method to determine known binding site locales on M protein that is unevenly expressed on the bacterial surface of S . pyogenes . Our presented results show that this method is suited even for cells with non-spherical topology . However , it has proven difficult to perform site localization measurements on bacteria . We show that our method yields viable results with conventional microscopy and demonstrate that the precision may be increased by deconvolution of widefield images . Ab49 is an M protein-specific antibody  . Bacteria were incubated with IdeS-cleaved Xolair , Ab49 , or Alexa Fluor 647-conjugated Fibrinogen  . When antibody labelling was simulated , a 15 nm offset was added in a random three-dimensional direction for each antibody . 5 nm . These beads are used for the objective collar correction , SIM grating alignment , and measurement of SIM and widefield PSF . This offset is used to correct for chromatic aberration in subsequent site localization measurements by correcting the position of the reference region prior to calculating distance to the ligand signal . The widefield images were deconvolved using the Richardson–Lucy algorithm  in 10 iterations . 
