The DNA in genes encodes the basic information needed to build an organism or control its day-to-day operations . Most cells in an organism contain the same genetic information , but different types of cell use the information differently . For example , many of the genes that are active in a muscle cell are different from those that are active in a skin cell . These different patterns of gene activation largely determine a cell’s identity and are brought about by DNA-binding proteins or chemical modifications to the DNA ( which are both forms of so-called epigenetic regulation ) . Nevertheless , cells occasionally change their identities – a phenomenon that is referred to as reprograming . This process allows tissues to be regenerated after wounding , but , due to technical difficulties , reprograming has been often studied in isolated cells grown in a dish . Seelk , Adrian-Kalchhauser et al . set out to understand how being surrounded by intact tissue influences reprograming . The experiments made use of C . elegans worms , because disturbing how this worm’s DNA is packaged can trigger its cells to undergo reprograming . Seelk , Adrian-Kalchhauser et al . show that a signaling pathway that is found in many different animals enhances this kind of reprograming in C . elegans . On the one hand , these findings help in understanding how epigenetic regulation can be altered by a specific tissue environment . On the other hand , the findings also suggest that abnormal signaling can result in altered epigenetic control of gene expression and lead to cells changing their identity . Indeed , increased signaling is linked to a major epigenetic mechanism seen in specific blood tumors , suggesting that the regulatory principles uncovered using this simple worm model could eventually provide insights into a human disease . A future challenge will be to determine precisely how the studied signaling pathway interacts with the epigenetic regulator that controls reprograming . Understanding this interaction in molecular detail could help to devise strategies for controlling reprograming . These strategies could in turn lead to treatments for people with conditions that cause specific cells types to be lost , such as Alzheimer’s disease or injuries .
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a type of bacteria that can cause life-threatening infections – including pneumonia , blood stream infections , and urinary tract infections – in hospitalized patients . These infections can be difficult to treat because some K . pneumoniae are resistant to antibiotics . The bacteria are normally found in the human intestine , and they do not usually cause infections in healthy people . This implies that healthy people’s immune systems are better able to fend off K . pneumoniae infections; learning how could help scientists develop new ways to treat or prevent infections in hospitalized patients . In healthy people , a type of immune cell called neutrophils are the first line of defense against bacterial infections . Several different proteins are needed to activate neutrophils , including a protein called SKAP2 . But the role of this protein in fighting K . pneumoniae infections is not clear . To find out what role SKAP2 plays in the defense against pneumonia caused by K . pneumoniae , Nguyen et al . compared infections in mice with and without the protein . Mice lacking SKAP2 in their white blood cells had more bacteria in their lungs than normal mice . The experiments showed that neutrophils from mice with SKAP2 produce a burst of chemicals called “reactive oxygen species” , which can kill bacteria . But neutrophils without the protein do not . Without SKAP2 , several proteins that help produce reactive oxygen species do not work . Understanding the role of SKAP2 in fighting infections may help scientists better understand the immune system . This could help clinicians to treat conditions that cause it to be hyperactive or ineffective . More studies are needed to determine if SKAP2 works the same way in human neutrophils and if it works against all types of K . pneumoniae . If it does , then scientists might be able use this information to develop therapies that help the immune system fight infections .
Malaria is one of the world's most deadly infections , causing 100s of 1000s of deaths each year despite being both preventable and curable . Malaria is caused by Plasmodium parasites , which are transmitted between humans by mosquitoes . When a mosquito bites a human , Plasmodium is injected into the bloodstream with the mosquito's saliva . The parasite then travels through the bloodstream to the liver , infects liver cells and multiplies within those cells without causing any noticeable symptoms . After remaining silent in the liver for weeks or months , the now abundant parasite ruptures the host liver cell , re-enters the bloodstream , and begins infecting red blood cells . If another mosquito bites the infected individual and takes a blood meal , the parasite moves into the mosquito and the cycle of transmission continues . There are several species of Plasmodium that are known to cause malaria . The most widely studied species is P . falciparum , which also causes one of the deadliest types of malaria . However , another Plasmodium species called P . vivax is the most widely distributed species and , despite being less virulent than P . falciparum , is particularly dangerous because it causes recurring malaria . In contrast to P . falciparum , P . vivax has the ability to form hypnozoites: a dormant form of the parasite that can remain inside liver cells for long periods of time , sometimes for years . The reservoir of P . vivax hypnozoites can regularly populate the bloodstream with the infectious form of the parasite , triggering relapses of malaria . Even if an individual suffering a relapse receives prompt treatment to clear parasites in the blood , more parasites may emerge from the liver and cause new blood-stage infections . White et al . developed a mathematical model to help understand how P . vivax is transmitted . Unlike many of the established models of malaria transmission , the new model accounts for the reservoir of P . vivax hypnozoites in the liver , and assumes that hypnozoites in the reservoir either die , or are activated and enter the bloodstream , at a constant rate . This produces patterns that closely match how often relapses occur in patients . White et al . go on to predict that although many infected people have few or no hypnozoites in their liver , some have many hypnozoites , and these people are more likely to suffer from malaria relapses . This suggests that if the initial treatments given to malaria sufferers incorporate additional drugs that kill the hypnozoites in the liver , then it may be possible to substantially reduce the extent of P . vivax transmission .
The Amazon rainforest in South America is the largest tropical forest in the world . Along with being home to a huge variety of plants and wildlife , rainforests also play an important role in storing an element called carbon , which is a core component of all life on Earth . Certain forms of carbon , such as the gas carbon dioxide , contribute to climate change so researchers want to understand what factors affect how much carbon is stored in rainforests . Trees and other plants absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and then incorporate the carbon into carbohydrates and other biological molecules . The Amazon rainforest alone holds around 30% of the total carbon stored in land-based ecosystems . Humans selectively harvest certain species of tree that produce wood with commercial value from the Amazon rainforest . This “selective logging” results in the loss of stored carbon from the rainforest , but the loss can be compensated for in the medium to long term if the forest is left to regrow . New trees and trees that survived the logging grow to fill the gaps left by the felled trees . However , it is not clear how differences in the forest ( for example , forest maturity ) , environmental factors ( such as climate or soil ) and the degree of the disturbance caused by the logging affect the ability of the forest ecosystem to recover the lost carbon . Piponiot et al . used computer modeling to analyze data from over a hundred different forest plots across the Amazon rainforest . The models show that the forest’s ability to recover carbon after selective logging greatly differs between regions . For example , the overall amount of carbon recovered in the first ten years is predicted to be higher in a region in the north known as the Guiana Shield than in the south of the Amazonian basin where the climate is less favorable . The findings of Piponiot et al . highlight the key role the trees that survive selective logging play in carbon recovery . The next step would be to couple this model to historical maps of logging to estimate how the areas of the rainforest that are managed by selective logging shape the overall carbon balance of the Amazon rainforest .
Neurons that arise in the adult nervous system originate from neural stem cells and neural progenitor cells . Neural stem cells have long lives , much of which they spend in a quiescent state . Neural stem cells can also give rise to neural progenitor cells , which proliferate rapidly during their short lives and then ‘differentiate’ into neurons or glia . Unlike some other tissues , it has not been possible to identify or purify neural stem cells directly from the tissue . Consequently , neural stem and progenitor cells have usually been studied retrospectively , based on their ability to form colonies in laboratory cell cultures . A region of the brain called the subventricular zone contains both neural stem cells and neural progenitor cells , and is one of only two regions of the brain where neural stem cells are found in adult mammals . When cells from the subventricular zone are cultured in a way that allows the cells to freely float around ( rather than growing on a surface ) , a few percent form spherical colonies called neurospheres . Since neurosphere-forming cells can self-renew and differentiate into neurons and glia , the ability of cells to form neurospheres has generally been taken as evidence that they are stem cells . However , the exact relationship between neural stem cells and neurosphere-forming cells has been uncertain . Now , Mich , Signer et al . have used a technique called flow cytometry to identify and isolate neural stem cells and neurosphere-forming cells directly from the subventricular zone . The neural stem cells , which Mich , Signer et al . term pre-GEPCOT cells ( based on an acronym of the markers used to isolate the cells ) , were long-lived and quiescent , but they lacked the ability to form colonies in culture . The neurosphere-forming cells , named GEPCOT cells , were short-lived and highly proliferative in the brain . These results demonstrate that the cells that form neurospheres in culture are not stem cells at all , and that real stem cells are not able to form colonies under existing culture conditions . The identification of undifferentiated pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells will make it possible to directly study the properties of these cells inside the mouse brain , and to isolate live cells to test how they function . The results also highlight the need for new tests to study neural stem cell function , given that current tests using neurospheres do not detect stem cells as commonly assumed .
Cells can sense a range of mechanical forces both inside and outside the body , such as the stroke of a fingertip or the filling of a lung . Pores on the surface of the cell called Piezo channels open up in response to this pressure . This allows ions to flood in to the cell and trigger a series of biochemical reactions that alter the cell’s behavior . Piezo channels have a unique bowl-like structure that transforms the shape of the cell surface around them , potentially affecting how nearby proteins behave . Previous research had suggested that these channels might be unevenly distributed across the cell surface , and were predicted to modify each other’s behaviors when tightly packed together . This cooperative response would have a significant impact on how cells sense mechanical force . To investigate if this was the case , Lewis and Grandl studied a mouse cell called Neuro2A which naturally produces Piezo ion channels . In the experiment , pressure was applied to different parts of the cell and the electric current generated by ions moving across the surface was recorded: the higher the electrical activity , the more ion channels present . This showed that Piezo channels are randomly distributed across the cell surface and do not tend to cluster together . The same Neuro2A cells were then engineered to produce up to one hundred times more Piezo proteins . Despite the channels being more densely packed together , how they responded to mechanical force remained the same . These results suggest that Piezo channels act independently and are not influenced by close proximity to one another . Lewis and Grandl propose that this property may ensure that all parts of the cell surface react to mechanical force in the same way . Further work is needed to see if this finding applies to other cell types that produce Piezo proteins .
Many of our decisions are made on the basis of imperfect or ‘noisy’ information . A longstanding goal in neuroscience is to work out how such noise affects three aspects of decision-making: the accuracy ( or appropriateness ) of a choice , the speed at which the choice is made , and the decision-maker’s confidence that they have chosen correctly . One theory of decision-making is that the brain simultaneously accumulates evidence for each of the options it is considering , until one option exceeds a threshold and is declared the ‘winner’ . This theory is known as bounded evidence accumulation . It predicts that increasing the noisiness of the available information decreases the accuracy of decisions made in response . Counterintuitively , it also predicts that such an increase in noise speeds up decision-making and increases confidence levels . Zylberberg et al . have now tested these predictions experimentally by getting human volunteers and monkeys to perform a series of trials where they had to decide whether a set of randomly moving dots moved to the left or to the right overall . Using a newly developed method , the noisiness of the dot motion could be changed between trials . The effectiveness of this technique was confirmed by recording the activity of neurons in the region of the monkey brain that processes visual motion information . After each trial , the humans rated their confidence in their decision . By comparison , the monkeys could indicate that they were not confident in a decision by opting for a guaranteed small reward on certain trials ( instead of the larger reward they received when they correctly indicated the direction of motion of the dots ) . In both humans and monkeys , increasing the noisiness associated with the movement of the dots led to faster and more confident decision-making , just as the bounded evidence accumulation framework predicts . Furthermore , the results presented by Zylberberg et al . suggest that the brain does not always gauge how reliable evidence is in order to fine-tune decisions . Now that the role of noise in decision-making is better understood , future experiments could attempt to reveal how artificial manipulations of the brain contribute both information and noise to a decision . Other experiments might ascertain when the brain can learn that noisy information should invite slower , more cautious decisions .
Although aging might seem to be a passive process—resulting simply from wear and tear over a lifetime—it can actually be accelerated or slowed down by genetic mutations . This phenomenon has been most thoroughly studied in the nematode worm , Caenorhabditis elegans . Normally , this worm lives for just two or three weeks , but genetic mutations that reduce the activity of certain enzymes in a series of biochemical reactions known as the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway can extend its lifespan by up to a factor of ten , and similar effects have been seen in flies and mice . Lifespans can also be increased by blocking other signalling pathways or restricting the intake of calories . This increase in lifespan associated with the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway is known to involve a protein called DAF-16 and two kinases called AKT-1 and AKT-2 . Under normal conditions the AKT kinases add several phosphate groups to the DAF-16 , which prevents it from travelling to the nucleus of the cell . However , when genetic techniques are used to block the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway , the AKT kinases are unable to add the phosphate groups; this leaves the DAF-16 free to enter the nucleus , where it activates a network of genes that promotes longevity . In addition to kinases , the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway also involves enzymes called phosphatases that remove the phosphate groups from other proteins . In particular , a phosphatase called calcineurin is known to be involved in the regulation of lifespan , but the details of this process are not fully understood . Now , Tao et al . have carried out a series of genetic and biochemical experiments to determine how phosphatases exert their influence on aging . The results show that calcineurin targets DAF-16 , the same protein that is targeted by the AKT kinases . Moreover , another kinase also targets DAF-16 when the worm is exposed to heat , starvation or some other form of stress: this kinase , which is not involved in the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway , is called CAMKII . Tao et al . show that these kinases act on DAF-16 in different ways: CAMKII activates it by adding the phosphate group at a specific site known as S286 , whereas the AKT kinases deactivate DAF-16 because they add phosphate groups at different sites , thereby preventing it from entering the nucleus . Calcineurin neutralizes the effect of CAMKII by removing the phosphate group at S286 to deactivate the DAF-16 . In addition to shedding new light on the regulation of lifespan in C . elegans , the new results could improve our understanding of aging in humans , and also the development of diabetes and other age-related diseases , because the equivalent molecules in mammalian cells are regulated in similar ways .
Anyone who has ever lived with a cat is familiar with its grooming behavior . This innate behavior follows a particular sequence as the cat methodically cleans its body parts one-by-one . Many animals also have grooming habits , even insects such as fruit flies . The fact that grooming sequences are seen across such different species suggests that this behavior is important for survival . Nevertheless , how the brain organizes grooming sequences , or other behaviors that involve a sequence of tasks , is not well understood . Fruit flies make a good model for studying grooming behavior for a couple of reasons . First , they are fastidious cleaners . When coated with dust they will faithfully carry out a series of cleaning tasks to clean each body part . Second , there are many genetic tools and techniques that researchers can use to manipulate the fruit flies' behaviors . One technique allows specific brain cells to be targeted and activated to trigger particular behaviors . Seeds et al . used these sophisticated techniques , computer modeling , and behavioral observations to uncover how the brains of fruit flies orchestrate a grooming sequence . Dust-covered flies follow a predictable sequence of cleaning tasks: beginning by using their front legs to clean their eyes , they then clean their antennae and head . This likely helps to protect their sensory organs . Next , they move on to the abdomen , possibly to ensure that dust doesn't interfere with their ability to breathe . Wings and thorax follow last . Periodically , the flies stop to rub their legs together to remove any accumulated dust before resuming the cleaning sequence . Seeds et al . activated different sets of brain cells one-by-one to see if they could trigger a particular grooming task and found that individual cleaning tasks could be triggered , in the absence of dust , by stimulating a specific group of brain cells . This suggests each cleaning task is a discrete behavior controlled by a subset of cells . Then Seeds et al . tried to stimulate more than one cleaning behavior at a time; they discovered that wing-cleaning suppressed thorax-cleaning , abdomen-cleaning suppressed both of these , and head-cleaning suppressed all the others . This suggests that a ‘hierarchy’ exists in the brain that exactly matches the sequence that flies normally follow as they clean their body parts . By learning more about how the brain coordinates grooming sequences , the findings of Seeds et al . may also provide insights into other behaviors that involve a sequence of tasks , such as nest building in animals or typing in humans . Following on from this work , one of the next challenges will be to see if such behaviors also use a ‘suppression hierarchy’ to ensure that individual tasks are carried out in the right order .
Human reproductive cells—eggs and sperm—are produced through a process called meiosis . This means a ‘parent’ cell in the ovaries or testes undergoes two stages of cell division: it first divides into two cells , which then divide again to produce four ‘daughter’ cells . A crucial part of meiosis is ensuring that each daughter cell has half the number of chromosomes that the parent cell did . Before the first round of meiosis , the chromosomes in the parent cell are copied to produce enough chromosomes for the four daughter cells . The distribution of these chromosomes between the daughter cells is determined by the opposing forces acting on them . The pairs of identical chromosomes produced during the copying process are held together by a proteinaceous glue , while microtubules attached to a structure called the spindle—which has poles at opposite ends of the cell—try to pull these pairs of chromosomes apart . Rattani et al . now show that a protein called shugoshin-like 2 ( Sgol2 ) , which is involved in holding pairs of identical chromosomes together after the first round of division , has a bigger role than was previously realised . Sgol2 performs three other functions: it helps to align the chromosomes prior to division by , it is thought , facilitating the formation of the K-fibers that attach the microtubules to the chromosomes; it turns off the checkpoint that monitors the alignment of the chromosomes and the attachment of the microtubules; and it regulates a number of the enzymes involved in the process . The specific interactions that allow Sgol2 to perform these diverse functions in meiosis were also identified . Thus , Rattani et al . show that in linking so many essential processes throughout meiosis , Sgol2 appears to have a key , if not unique , role in determining the fate of chromosomes as cells divide .
