In this work , we conducted a genomic survey of transcript ends in lymphoblastoid cells from genetically distinct human individuals . Our analysis mapped the cis-regulatory architecture of 3′ gene ends , finding that transcript end positions did not fall randomly in untranslated regions , but rather preferentially flanked the locations of 3′ regulatory elements , including miRNA sites . The usage of these transcript length forms and motifs varied across human individuals , and polymorphisms in polyadenylation signals and other 3′ motifs were significant predictors of expression levels of the genes in which they lay . Independent single-gene experiments confirmed the effects of polyadenylation variants on steady-state expression of their respective genes , and validated the regulatory function of 3′ cis-regulatory sequence elements that mediated expression of these distinct RNA length forms . Our results underscore the importance of two mechanisms at play in the genetics of 3′-end variation: the usage of distinct 3′-end processing signals and the effects of 3′ sequence elements that determine transcript fate . Alternative polyadenylation represents a major regulatory strategy in the human genome , with analysis across tissue types detecting multiple 3′ UTR forms of over half of all human genes  . In general , however , identifying the regulatory elements that underlie relationships between 3′ UTR sequence and gene expression remains a primary challenge , and for the majority of human genes , the regulatory impact of alternative polyadenylation is unknown . A complete understanding of the genetics of alternative polyadenylation will require maps of transcript end site usage and 3′ cis-regulatory elements , and analysis strategies to integrate the data . Recently developed short-read sequencing methods for transcript ends – have enabled the possibility of quantitative studies of the regulatory architecture of transcript end forms on a genomic scale . In this work , we set out to investigate mechanisms by which alternative polyadenylation impacts gene expression and its variation across genetically distinct human individuals . We used 3′-end RNA-seq  to maximize the genomic coverage and precision of transcript end positions , and to measure quantitative expression levels of transcript forms . The results shed light on the architecture of transcript ends and regulatory elements in human 3′ UTRs and the principles of genetic variation in 3′ length form usage . To survey the 3′ ends of transcripts in human B-lymphoblastoid cells , we isolated RNA from cell lines derived from six human individuals and subjected each replicate of each sample to 3′-end RNA-seq , which sequences polyadenylated transcript ends on a genomic scale  with strong and significant reproducibility  . Across such transcript ends mapping to nuclear-encoded loci , the vast majority of reads  originated from 3′ UTRs of coding genes  ; 80% of transcript ends were consistent with the 3′ ends of previously annotated length forms  . Within 40 base pairs of the inferred cleavage position , most transcript end forms harbored a polyadenylation signal sequence: either the canonical A  UAAA  or a close variant , or an A-rich stretch –  . We set out to analyze our data set of 3′ transcript ends with respect to alternative polyadenylation , focusing on a maximum of two abundant , distinguishable transcript forms in a given gene . We considered three patterns of transcript end usage : class I , indicating genes with a single transcript form terminating in an annotated 3′ UTR; class II , genes with alternative polyadenylation in the same annotated 3′ UTR; and class III , genes in which the two alternative polyadenylation forms differed in their composition of coding sequence  . The breakdown of transcript forms into these classes revealed alternative polyadenylation reaching our threshold of detection in ∼30% of genes  . Across these genes , we observed the expected enrichment of the A  UAAA polyadenylation signal motif in the distal relative to proximal polyadenylation signals  , correlating with the higher expression levels of the long transcript forms  ,  . We sought to harness our data set of transcript ends to investigate regulatory elements governing translation and transcript half-life , and their relationship to alternative 3′ transcript forms . We expected that the regulatory logic of alternative polyadenylation would be intimately connected with sequence determinants of transcript half-life or translation in 3′ UTRs . For a given gene subject to alternative polyadenylation , we referred to the region of the 3′ UTR upstream of the proximal cleavage site as “shared” among the alternative polyadenylation length forms , and the span of the 3′ UTR in between the proximal and distal cleavage sites as the “differential” region  . We hypothesized that , if alternative polyadenylation often acted to tune the exposure of cis-regulatory motifs in 3′ UTR sequences , these motifs would preferentially be positioned in differential regions . To test this , we tabulated the positions of each type of regulatory element across our set of alternatively polyadenylated genes in class II . Significance testing revealed a significant enrichment of genes with motifs in the differential regions of 3′ UTRs relative to those with motifs in shared regions  . Analyzing the annotations of genes in these sets , we observed a preponderance of genes with immune-related functions among those with cis-regulatory motifs in the differential regions of 3′ UTRs , while motifs in shared regions of 3′ UTRs were largely detected among genes with housekeeping roles  . Thus , for genes carrying out immune processes in B-lymphoblastoid cells , the choice between long and short transcript end forms often exposes or eliminates regulatory information in 3′ UTRs , highlighting the importance of 3′-end processing in the control of gene expression levels for specialized cell functions . To investigate the genetics of RNA 3′-end processing , we first assessed the contribution of genetic differences , relative to experimental and environmental error , to variation of transcript 3′-end positions across the six genotypes of lymphoblastoid cells in our study . For this purpose , we calculated the heritability of length form abundance for each gene , finding 194 coding genes at which the abundances of transcript length forms differed reproducibly  across human samples  . To begin to dissect the molecular basis for natural genetic variation in 3′-end usage at these loci , we considered the potential role for DNA sequence differences at polyadenylation signals , the primary determinants of transcript cleavage and polyadenylation . Consistent with this prediction , genes with highly heritable transcript end positions harbored a single nucleotide polymorphism in polyadenylation signal motif sequence much more often than did the average gene  . We hypothesized that naturally occurring genetic variation in RNA 3′-end processing would prove to underlie changes across individuals in steady-state levels of gene expression . To test this , we analyzed the genomic relationship between biallelic single-nucleotide polymorphisms in polyadenylation signals and gene expression differences across our set of lymphoblastoid cell lines from distinct human genotypes . We used a standard regression test of genetic association to evaluate genotype at each such sequence variant as a predictor of expression of the gene in which it lay . This score difference was a strong predictor of the effect of a given polyadenylation signal variant on steady-state expression levels  , with a departure from the polyadenylation signal motif associated with a drop in expression as predicted . To pursue on a molecular basis the impact of variation across humans in polyadenylation signals , we used our 3′-end RNA-seq data to infer the effects of single-nucleotide variants on usage of 3′ transcript forms at individual genes , and we evaluated these predictions in single-gene 3′ UTR reporter assays . For each gene , toggling natural variant alleles at one nucleotide position in the polyadenylation signal was sufficient to drive differential usage of short and long 3′ transcript forms  . In each of the latter genes , the causal variant conferred significant changes in luciferase protein levels as well as usage of transcript forms  . We conclude that sequence differences in polyadenylation signals represent a key mechanism underlying variation between humans in levels of gene expression , with genome-scale trends validated at the single-gene level . In RNA expression measurements using the 3′ UTR haplotype that produced both long and short transcript forms of a given gene , one form was detected at higher abundance in each case  . We hypothesized that these abundance differences between length forms could be in part the result of sequence elements that dictate transcript cleavage , polyadenylation , and termination , and in part the result of regulatory elements that affect transcript half-life . To test this , for each gene we first developed expression reporters incorporating only the regions flanking the end positions of each transcript form in turn , which we expected would include the polyadenylation signal and auxiliary sequence motifs underlying 3′-end processing of the respective form while excluding most other 3′ regulatory information . Expression measurements confirmed differences in the strength of these 3′-end processing motifs between length forms for EIF2A , IRF5 , and DIP2B , in that reporters incorporating each of the two 3′-end sequences from a given gene exhibited up to 2 . Analyzing these results together with the effects of natural variants in polyadenylation signals  indicates that for a given gene , a variant can abrogate production of a transcript form with strong sequence determinants of 3′-end processing , leaving only the less efficiently processed form and giving rise to lower total expression of the gene product , as in IRF5 and EIF2A . As a further investigation of the determinants of abundance of long and short transcript forms for genes subject to natural genetic change in 3′-end processing , we analyzed the role of 3′ regulatory elements in such genes in relation to trans-acting regulatory factors . We identified a candidate ARE in the differential region of the 3′ UTR of IRF5 , i . between the positions of alternative 3′ ends observed in our 3′-end RNA-seq; a candidate ARE in the differential region of NAB1; and a candidate binding site for the miRNA miR-101 in the differential region of DIP2B  . To assess the functional relevance of these motifs , we applied a mutagenesis strategy using 3′ UTR reporter constructs for each gene , as above distinguishing between the 3′ UTR haplotype that produced both long and short transcript forms and the haplotype producing only the long form  . Taken together , our results illustrate the complexity of regulatory information in 3′ UTRs , as determinants of RNA 3′-end processing and transcript fate each contribute to the final expression level of the host gene . We conclude that , for these case studies , integrating predicted regulatory motifs with knowledge of transcript end positions is essential in the effort to relate genotype to gene expression . These findings suggest that genetic variation in 3′-end processing dictates differences across individuals in the regulatory dynamics of IRF5 , further underscoring the power of our approach to identify biologically relevant regulatory effects of 3′-end processing . In particular , we expected that sequence variants between individuals in 3′ regulatory elements would be significant predictors of variation in steady-state expression of the genes in which they lay . We next classified these motifs according to the impact of alternative polyadenylation on their positions in 3′ UTRs , and we used association tests to assess the strength of each motif variant in each class as a predictor of steady-state expression of its respective gene . Polymorphic motifs incorporated into low-abundance 3′ length forms showed no evidence of association with expression changes in their respective genes , consistent with the minor contribution of these forms; by the same token , polymorphic motifs in regions incorporated into the predominant 3′ length forms of mRNAs were more strongly associated with expression of their respective genes , though not significantly so  . As expected  , the relationship between sequence variants and gene expression did not manifest for miRNA sites  . These findings highlight the relevance of 3′ regulatory motifs as predictors of expression variation across human individuals , when integrated with knowledge of transcript length forms from our sequencing strategy . However , for most human genes , the regulatory importance of changes in transcript ends between individuals is incompletely understood , owing to the challenges of measuring 3′-end usage and identifying functional regulatory elements in 3′ UTRs . We have used the resulting transcript end positions and abundances to pioneer an analysis approach which integrates bioinformatic predictions of 3′ regulatory motifs , genomic analysis , and molecular genetics . With this strategy , we have established a regulatory map of transcript ends and functional elements in the 3′ UTRs of lymphoblastoid cells , and we have abstracted genomic principles of alternative polyadenylation and natural genetic variation in this cell type . Our mapping of 3′-end length forms and sequence motifs in 3′ UTRs revealed an intuitive logic in which the choice between short and long UTR forms governs the incorporation of regulatory elements into mature messages  ,  . In comparisons across cell lines from genetically distinct individuals , we analyzed the regulatory importance of genetic changes at 3′ transcript ends . These findings establish a connection between observational studies of transcript 3′ length forms across human populations  ,  and regulatory effects of this variation . We have also shown that polymorphisms in 3′ motifs that govern transcript fate can serve as predictors of steady-state levels of the genes in which they lie . Rather , a complete understanding of the genetics of gene expression will integrate the usage of RNA 3′-end processing signals with the effects of 3′ sequence elements that control transcript fate . We anticipate that abundances and positions of transcript ends observed in 3′-end RNA-seq will prove to be a key component in the systems-level modeling of regulatory networks and their variation . In summary , while the genetic study of RNA 3′-end processing is in its infancy , our work and that of others – establishes that variation at 3′ ends can be a critical determinant of regulatory behaviors . Libraries were sequenced using 40 bp paired-end modules on an Illumina 2G Genome Analyzer . All reads were then mapped to this modified genome and to the associated splicing junctions in the Known Genes database of the UCSC genome browser  using MOSAIK  . We inferred that a given read was transcribed from the minus strand of the genome if , when it was mapped to the reference genome , the position of its poly-T tract had a lower coordinate position than the mapped position of the other end of the read; we inferred that a read was transcribed from the plus strand of the genome if the mapped position of its poly-T tract had a higher coordinate position than the position of the other end . 8 reads/bp for the covered bases for each sample . 1 reads/bp . For each strand of each chromosome , the 5′ boundary of a tag cluster was set as the polyA position of the first read , and then reads were sequentially added to this unit until the polyA position of the next read was more than 15 bp away . The latter position then became the 5′ boundary of the next tag cluster . Most tag clusters spanned less than 24 bp , but if the polyA positions in a cluster spanned more than 40 bp , we applied a peak-finding algorithm as follows . For each genome coordinate in the region corresponding to the tag cluster , we defined the read count as the number of reads whose polyA position overlapped the coordinate . Of these , we identified the most 5′ and 3′ polyA positions  . All reads in the tag cluster were then divided into three new candidate tag clusters: reads with positions 5′ to posL , reads with positions including and between posL and posR , and reads with positions 3′ to posR . If the read counts of all coordinates in a candidate tag cluster were below 10% of MaxHeight , the candidate unit was eliminated . If a candidate tag cluster contained coordinates with read counts larger than 10% of MaxHeight , we identified the coordinate with the largest read count within this candidate tag cluster and repeated the peak-finding algorithm . For each tag cluster retained for analysis , we defined the polyA position of the unit as the median of the polyA positions of all reads encompassed by the unit . After establishing that the stretch of A's in each read represented a mismatch to the genome sequence  , we filtered out reads with a potential origin from internal priming from A-rich regions of the genome by removing any tag cluster whose defined polyA position was followed by 10 or more A's in the genome sequence within 20 bp . We expected that for a given set of paired-end reads falling into a tag cluster , the characteristics of read ends originating from biological 3′-end processing should be distinct from the characteristics of read ends originating from fragmentation , reverse transcription , and ligation during RNA-seq library preparation . In particular , we reasoned that the polyA positions of a set of reads in a tag cluster with origin as a biologically relevant transcript would be less heterogeneous than the positions of the other mates of the reads . As such , we retained a tag cluster for analysis only if the precision of polyA positions across the reads of the unit was greater than the precision of the positions of the other mates . The precision was calculated by where ni is the number of reads at the ith position and N is the total number of reads in the tag cluster . We also filtered out any tag cluster whose total read count across all samples amounted to fewer than 50 reads . For use in searches for regulatory motifs , we harnessed all 3′-end RNA-seq reads in tag clusters from all samples to define a consensus base at each position in 3′ UTRs as follows . For every tag cluster , the consensus sequence of the region 40 bp upstream from the polyA position was searched for a polyadenylation signal using the known hexamer motifs sorted by their abundance in the human genome from  . We identified any 9 bp regions containing at least 6 A's and considered each such region a candidate polyadenylation signal; if no such candidate signal were present , we considered the tag cluster not to have an identifiable polyadenylation signal . To find upstream U-rich elements  , for a given tag cluster , we identified a candidate USE as the 9-bp window with the highest number of T's in the consensus sequence , within 30 bp upstream of the polyadenylation signal . Human gene annotations were downloaded from the Known Genes database of the UCSC Genome Browser  . Among the UCSC transcript annotations that overlapped the start and end positions of a tag cluster , the annotation with the minimum distance between the annotated 3′-end position and the polyA position of the tag cluster was chosen . If there were multiple annotations with the same 3′-end positions , we chose the annotation with greatest degree of overlap between the tag cluster consensus sequence and the annotated exons . The genomic coordinates of human expressed sequence tags  with polyA tails were downloaded from the polyA_db2 database  . If the coordinate of polyA_db2 EST was between the start and end position of a tag cluster , we considered the length form corresponding to the unit to be supported by the EST . All tag clusters with the same UCSC gene annotation were categorized as associated with the gene , and only the two tag clusters with the highest expression per gene were used for classification of alternative polyadenylation . We classified each gene as follows: class I if there was only one tag cluster overlapping with the annotated 3′ UTR of the gene; class II if both tag clusters overlapped with the annotated 3′ UTR of the gene and they were associated with the same UCSC transcript ID; class III if one of the tag clusters overlapped witha coding exon or intron , or if both tag clusters overlapped with 3′ UTRs with different UCSC transcript IDs . We calculated the broad-sense heritability in polyA positions using biological replicates of 3′-end RNA-seq across the six human cell lines as follows . Heritability of total expression levels for each gene was calculated analogously , using as a quantitative trait the sum of read counts across the gene normalized by the sum of all reads . 2  was used to predict miRNA binding sites in the 3′ UTR sequences of all expressed genes . 4 were used for analysis . Overlapping motifs were combined . To identify Pumilio binding elements , the motif TGTANATA was searched in 3′ UTR sequences . For the background model of sequence variation in 3′ UTRs used in Table S4 , we first tabulated all instances of A , C , T , and G across all positions of 3′ UTR sequences in the hg18 human reference genome , where the boundaries of 3′-ends were taken from our compendium of 3′-end RNA-seq data for genes expressed in our samples . For each type of regulatory element analyzed in Figure 2C , we tabulated a list of class II genes with motifs in the shared region only , and combined these lists across elements . The sequenced reads were mapped to the human genome  using MOSAIK  . This set of SNPs was used in association tests with total gene expression levels as follows . Given tag cluster definitions for each gene from analysis of 3′-end RNA-seq libraries  , we calculated a normalized expression level for each tag cluster in each sample as the ratio between the number of 3′-end RNA-seq reads mapping within the tag cluster boundaries in the sample and the total number of mapped 3′-end RNA-seq reads in the sample . We then defined the expression level of a given gene in a given sample as the sum of all normalized expression levels across all tag clusters in that gene . In cases of alternative polyadenylation , SNPs in polyadenylation signals upstream of a maximum of two major length forms were considered for association tests . 5 if the signal was a match to the “variant” polyadenylation motifs in  , and 0 otherwise . In Figure 3A , we analyzed SNPs in 3′ UTRs for 4214 genes and SNPs in polyadenylation signals for 33 genes . In Figure 8 , we analyzed regulatory element SNPs in 62 , 16 , 7 , and 20 genes respectively in 3′ UTRs of class I genes , shared regions of 3′ UTRs of class II genes , differential regions of 3′ UTRs of class II genes whose long forms were more abundant , and differential regions of 3′ UTRs of class II genes whose short forms were more abundant . To measure expression of short and long forms for a given gene with alternative polyadenylation , we considered quantitative PCR assays that would interrogate regions just upstream of the inferred cleavage sites of the short and long forms  . For a given transcript in a given experiment , the absolute mRNA level  from the primer set amplifying LU was used as the expression level for the long form; the expression level of the short form was calculated by subtracting the absolute mRNA level of LU from the absolute mRNA level of SU for all genes except IRF5 . Thus , for IRF5 , the mRNA count from SU was used as the expression level for the short form . All primer sequences are in Table S7 . For each length form of each gene , we aimed to clone a region centered on the cleavage site as inferred from the transcript end position observed in 3′-end RNA-seq , bounded by the 40 bp upstream and 40 bp downstream in the genomic sequences and flanked by LIC tags  . Each gene was cloned into the pcDNA3 mammalian expression vector  . RNA was isolated using Trizol  . The expression data reported in this paper have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus   database  . 
Here , we exploit deep sequencing technology and comprehensive CD8 T cell epitope mapping to deconstruct the CD8 T cell response , to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape , and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution of the CD8 T cell response in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals . We demonstrate that the initial CD8 T cell response in the acute phase of SIVΔnef infection is mounted predominantly against more variable epitopes , followed by widespread sequence evolution and viral escape . Furthermore , we show that epitope escape expands the CD8 T cell repertoire that targets highly conserved epitopes , defined as anentropic specificity , and generates de novo responses to the escaped epitope variants during the vaccination period . These results correlate SIVΔnef-induced protection with expanded anentropic specificity and increased response depth . SIVΔnef generates a diverse SIV-specific antibody response  and macaques vaccinated with the related attenuated virus SIVΔ3 and lacking the Mamu-A*01 MHC I allele show effective control of pathogenic viral challenge despite CD8 T cell depletion  , implying that humoral immunity may play a significant role , at least in some genotypic backgrounds . Innate immunity has also been implicated as a correlate of SIVΔnef-induced protection  . SIVΔnef infection induces potent CD8 T cell responses similar in magnitude to wild-type SIV infection  , and multiple studies have implicated SIV-specific CD8 T cells in the protection induced by SIVΔnef  . correlated the magnitude of lymph node SIV-specific T cell responses with protection elicited by a range of different LASIV strains , including SIVΔnef . We chose to focus on the CD8 T cell response as the most likely immune correlate for protection given that previous studies have demonstrated: potent anti-lentiviral activity of CD8 T cells in vitro ; increased viremia during chronic SIV infection after CD8 T cell depletion ; the ability of a live attenuated SHIV vaccine containing HIV env to protect vaccinated macaques against SIVmac239 challenge ; SIVΔnef-mediated protection of animals challenged with wild-type SIVmac239 containing highly heterologous env sequences ; and a correlation between increased LASIV-induced protection and higher magnitude of SIV-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells in the lymph nodes of vaccinated animals  . A distinguishing feature of the SIVΔnef and SIVΔ3 vaccines is the gradual increase in protection against wild-type SIV challenge during the first 15–20 weeks of vaccination  . Given the low-level replication rate of SIVΔnef after initial control of viremia by 8–12 weeks after vaccination , it was unknown whether SIVΔnef undergoes sequence evolution after acute infection . The only previously documented sequence evolution of SIVΔnef was in the Tat SL8 epitope , which escaped as early as 3 weeks post-infection  . We hypothesized that , despite low levels of viral replication , SIVΔnef undergoes sequence evolution during the vaccination period , which would induce a shift in the specificity of the CD8 T cell response between week 5 , when the animals are not protected , and week 20 , where increased protection plateaus  . We made use of high-throughput deep sequencing to quantify SIVΔnef sequence variants and their frequencies in vaccinated animals , including those with undetectable plasma viral loads . Concurrently , we fine-mapped the CD8 T cell responses at the epitope level at week 5 and 20 post-vaccination . Studying this cohort of animals longitudinally after SIVΔnef vaccination , we demonstrate concomitant coevolution of the virus and the specificity of the CD8 T cell response , resulting in a CD8 T cell repertoire with increased anentropic specificity , wider cumulative breadth , rearranged immunodominance and enhanced depth . Negatively selected CD4 T cells were >90% CD8 T cells . Isolated lymph node CD4 T cells were pelleted and used for RNA extraction and cell-associated viral RNA quantitation and sequencing . To sequence lymph node cell-associated viral RNA , cell-associated viral loads were first determined , incorporating qPCR assay primers and probes for SIV gag , rhesus CCR5 and SIVmac239Δnef as described  . Genome equivalents based on SIV gag or SIVmac239Δnef target sequences were determined as described . The threshold limits of detection for both SIV DNA and SIV RNA were 30 total copies of SIV sequence normalized to calculated cell equivalents . To deconvolute peptide-specific CD8 T cell responses , peripheral and lymph node mononuclear cells , depleted of CD4 T cells , were stimulated with single peptides that were present in at least 2 positive pools of the 87 peptide pools . Except where noted , all reagents were obtained from BD Biosciences  and included monoclonal antibodies to the following molecules: CD3  CD4  , CD8α  , CD28  , CCR7  , KI-67  , CD127  , perforin  . To study the effect of epitope escape on the evolution of the CD8 T cell response following vaccination with SIVΔnef , we first assessed the extent of viral sequence variation in 12 animals after SIVΔnef infection using next generation sequencing  . The vaccinated animals , most of which displayed classical SIVΔnef viral replication kinetics of peak viremia at week 2 and viral set-points at or near undetectable levels  at week 8 , were followed for 20 to 40 weeks before challenge  . Plasma viral samples from the 12 vaccinated animals were sequenced at time points ranging from 1 week to 34 weeks post-vaccination . To determine the extent of sequence evolution in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals that had lower levels of plasma viremia , we analyzed lymph node CD4 T cell-associated viral RNA at week 20 from 3 animals . Follicular helper CD4 T cells , which are localized in secondary lymphoid tissues , are preferentially infected by SIVΔnef  , and therefore have higher cell-associated viral RNA levels than CD4 T cells in peripheral blood  . Sequencing of lymph node CD4 T cell-associated viral RNA at week 20 revealed increased viral sequence variation even in SIVΔnef-infected animals with undetectable plasma viremia , albeit at lower levels of variation than observed for viremic animals . SIVΔnef was longitudinally sequenced in 5 animals , from plasma virus at week 4 and either plasma virus or LN CD4 T cell-associated virus at week 20 . Pooling all the variants  for all 5 animals , the average frequency of nonsynonymous mutations increased from 29% at week 4 to 47% at week 20   . To determine if viral sequence evolution was accompanied by a shift in the epitopes targeted by the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response , we analyzed CD8 T cell responses at weeks 5 and 20 in the 12 vaccinated animals using IFN-γ ELISPOT assays using overlapping peptide pools spanning the entire SIV proteome . In contrast to increased protection between weeks 5 and 20 , there was a 40% decrease in the magnitude of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response in peripheral blood mononuclear cells  between weeks 5 and 20  . Similarly , the breadth of the CD8 T cell response did not correlate with increased protection between weeks 5 and 20 , as the number of positive pools remained stable , with an average of 6 stimulating pools detected at week 5 and an average of 5 . A recent report demonstrated that the magnitude of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response in lymph nodes at week 50 post-vaccination with SIVΔnef correlated with protection against intravenous challenge  . To determine if the kinetics of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response in lymph nodes  correlated with the increased protection observed between weeks 5 and 20 , we looked at the magnitude and the breadth of the SIV-specific CD8+ T cell response in lymph nodes . Similar to the magnitude of the CD8 T cell response observed in peripheral blood , the magnitude of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response in lymph nodes decreased modestly , by 25% , between weeks 5 and 20  . We next examined CD8 T cell responses to Gag and Pol , the two most conserved proteins in lentiviruses , as a fraction of total responses to the SIV proteome , an indicator of the level of conservation of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response . Intriguingly , there was a significant enrichment of the ratio of the magnitude of Gag and Pol responses to the total SIV-specific CD8 T cell response between weeks 5 and 20 in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals   . The ratio of Gag and Pol responses to total SIV responses increased in every animal between week 5 and week 20 , increasing from an average of 28% at week 5 to 47% at week 20 . To characterize the shift in CD8 T cell specificity at the level of individual epitopes , we mapped the CD8 T cell response to single peptides for 6 animals at weeks 5 and 20 post-vaccination with SIVΔnef . Epitope mapping of SIV-specific CD8 T cell responses was conducted on CD8 T cells from lymph nodes . For the 2 animals whose SIV-specific CD8 T cell responses were mapped in both lymph nodes and peripheral blood , there was no significant difference in the epitopes targeted by the CD8 T cell responses in these two sites  . Longitudinal epitope mapping in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals revealed a change in the relative immunodominance of recognized epitopes between weeks 5 and 20 after SIVΔnef vaccination . Furthermore , the specific SIV epitopes recognized by CD8 T cell responses differed significantly between week 5 and week 20 . Of the 36 CD8 T cell epitopes mapped in the 6 animals at week 20 , only 14 were also recognized at week 5  . Almost two thirds of the responses at week 20 are de novo responses or were not readily detectible at week 5 . As a first step in assessing whether these shifts in epitope specificity reflected increased anentropic specificity of the CD8 T cell response , we examined the conservation of targeted epitopes at different times after SIVΔnef vaccination . Interestingly , in 5 out of 6 animals , the immunodominant response targeted a more conserved epitope  at week 20 than at week 5   . Moreover , 7 of the de novo CD8 T cell responses detected at week 20 targeted highly conserved epitopes with an entropy lower than 0 . Having established the accumulation of sequence variants between weeks 5 and 20 and a simultaneous shift in the SIV epitopes targeted by the CD8 T cell response , we sought to determine whether the two events were causally related . Overlaying epitopes mapped onto the sequenced virus from the 6 animals vaccinated with SIVΔnef demonstrated that there was a high concordance between the occurrence of nonsynonymous mutations and identification of CD8 T cell epitopes . In macaque 225–97 , for which we have the most comprehensive set of viral sequence data and longitudinal epitope mapping , almost all of the nonsynonymous mutations  with a frequency greater than 50% fell within a mapped CD8 T cell epitope  , implying a causal link between CD8 T cell pressure and viral escape . In animals 225–97 and 256–00 , epitope-specific CD8 T cell responses declined in frequency following escape of the epitope  . Remarkably , escape epitopes in animal 225–97 were themselves overtaken by other epitope variants over time , suggesting CD8 T cell pressure on the escape epitopes as well  . However , we did not observe sequence variation in all identified CD8 T cell epitopes . An analysis of the top four responses mapped for each animal at weeks 5 , 20 and 40 after SIVΔnef vaccination demonstrated that the escaped epitopes had significantly higher entropy scores than targeted epitopes that did not escape   . Similarly , SIV-specific CD8 T cells can be grouped into maintained responses , which target mostly conserved regions , and waning responses that target escaped epitopes . 25 , decreased significantly between weeks 5 and 20  and between weeks 5 and 40  , whereas the magnitude of the conserved responses was maintained  . The Response Conservation Index is the sum of all SIV-specific CD8 T cell response frequencies , weighted for entropy . Importantly , in the six animals whose CD8 T cell responses were mapped , the Response Conservation Index increased significantly between weeks 5 and 20   . The number of epitopes targeted by the CD8 T cell response did not differ between weeks 5 and 20 , as measured by positive peptide pools  or the specific mapped epitopes  . However , we hypothesized that escaped CD8 T cell responses were not deleted but rather maintained as a central memory T cell pool and , therefore , that the cumulative breadth of the CD8 T cell repertoire , encompassing all previously detected responses in a given animal , may be a more accurate measure of SIV-specific CD8 T cell breadth  . In Mamu-A1*001+  animals , SL8-specific CD8 T cell responses are frequently immunodominant during acute infection but quickly decline following the evolution of escape variants , where 82% and 94% of sequenced SL8 epitopes had mutated as early as week 4 in two SIVΔnef-vaccinated macaques  . Given the maintenance of responses to escaped epitopes in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals , all escaped responses were included in the calculation of cumulative breadth . In contrast to CD8 T cell breadth , the cumulative breadth of the CD8 T cell response increased significantly from an average of 6 responses per animal at week 5 to an average of 10 responses at week 20   . Finally , SIVΔnef escape , in addition to allowing for anentropic specificity and increased cumulative breadth , contributes to the deepening of the CD8 T cell response . To determine if de novo CD8 T cell responses to the escape variant arose , we tested both variants at week 5 and at the latest time point before challenge , week 38 . Lymph node CD8 T cells from macaque 256–00 recognized FW9 at week 5 but not at week 38; conversely , the FW9-H831Y escape variant was recognized only at week 38 but not at week 5  . Similarly , the GY9-K76R epitope variant was recognized at week 38 but not at week 5 demonstrates increased depth of the CD8 T cell response after the escape of the mapped Mamu-A*02-restricted GY9  epitope  . These data demonstrate that , at least in a subset of SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals , the depth of the CD8 T cell response increased between weeks 5 and 20 as new CD8 T cell responses were mounted against escape variants . Taken together , this data set supports a comprehensive model that provides new insights into the mechanism of SIV-specific immunity maturation after SIVΔnef vaccination . Moreover , we show that the observed sequence evolution can be characterized as viral epitope escape , a consequence of SIV-specific CD8 T cell pressure on the virus as indicated by the many nonsynonymous mutations that appear within mapped CD8 T cell epitopes . Importantly , another direct consequence of immune CTL pressure is the disproportionate escape of highly variable epitopes , which leads to the waning of CD8 T cell responses targeting entropic epitopes and the accumulation of CD8 T cell responses specific for these epitopes . In addition , escaped SIV-specific CD8 T cell responses are maintained as central memory CD8 T cells and , as such , contribute to the increased cumulative breadth of the CD8 T cell response at week 20 post-vaccination with SIVΔnef . Finally , epitope escape and the ensuing generation of de novo CD8 T cell responses to these escape variants constitute a deepening of the CD8 T cell repertoire . Highly attenuated viruses , such as SIVΔ4 , which exhibits lower efficacy compared to SIVΔnef  , would have lower replication rates and less escape events , therefore less opportunity to shape the CD8 T cell response . Similar to our LASIV-induced protection , viral control in LTNP is correlated with the immunodominance of CD8 T cell responses that target highly conserved epitopes  , given that immunodominant CD8 T cells exert more immune pressure  . Our research demonstrates that at week 20 , whereas responses to variable regions have waned , the immunodominant SIV-specific CD8 T cells target more conserved epitopes than at week 5 . In addition to immunodominant SIV-specific CD8 T cells with anentropic specificity , we also show increased cumulative breadth and depth of the CD8 T cell response at week 20 compared to week 5 . The increased cumulative breadth at week 20 is a function of waning escaped CD8 T cell responses that are maintained as central memory CD8 T cells and are recalled upon challenge . Still , a recent report suggests that acute-phase SIV-specific CD8 T cells targeting variable regions are important for viral control  , indicating that the increased cumulative breadth of the CD8 T cell response at week 20 may also contribute to protection . Moreover , we detected de novo CD8 T cell responses specific to escaped epitope variants , illustrating that viral escape also contributes to increased immune response depth . Although LTNP generate HIV-specific CD8 T cells that cross-react with escape mutants  , the generation of de novo CD8 T cell responses to escaped epitopes is rarely observed in adults infected with HIV  . In animal 256–00 , we identified two such CD8 T cell responses that target variant epitopes at week 38 but were not detectable at week 5 . We only assayed CD8 T cell responses against escape variants of known CD8 T cell epitopes with known MHC I restriction , and only if the MHC I is expressed by the infected animal . The relative frequency of de novo CD8 T cell responses in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals , if verified in future studies , could be due to an intact CD4 T cell compartment that persists well into the chronic phase of LASIV infection . Here , in the context of SIVΔnef , we demonstrate , in addition to rapid escape of variable epitopes and maintenance of existing CD8 T cell responses with anentropic specificity , de novo CD8 T cell responses against novel epitopes and escape variants during chronic infection . Furthermore , we correlate the accumulation of CD8 T cell responses with anentropic specificity and the increased repertoire depth and breadth to the kinetics of SIVΔnef vaccine-induced protection . Notably , we did not see an increased magnitude of the SIV-specific CD8 T cell response in the lymph nodes between weeks 5 and 20 . Fukazawa and colleagues  have recently shown that less attenuated LASIVs such as SIVΔnef have higher viral replication in the lymph nodes and , in turn , have higher lymph node CD8 T cell responses . It has also been proposed that the increased protection of LASIV vaccines is due to phenotypic maturation of the CD8 T cell response . It is important to delineate whether observed phenotypic changes in SIV-specific CD8 T cells correlate with LASIV protection and whether CD8 T cell phenotypic maturation is specific to LASIV or can be seen in other vaccines , such as adenovirus- , CMV- and RRV-based SIV vaccines . Finally , although this data set was focused on the CD8 T cell response and its evolution over time post-vaccination , we observed relatively few nonsynonymous mutations in env outside of mapped CD8 T cell epitopes , suggesting that antibody responses induced only modest immune selective pressure on SIVΔnef compared to CD8 T cell responses . Although immunodominance , specificity , breadth and depth have been implicated for some time as determinants of a successful CD8 T cell response against HIV/SIV infection , these results demonstrate how such a CD8 T cell response may be induced by the highly protective SIVΔnef vaccine . This new model of SIVΔnef-mediated protection raises obvious implications for vaccine design , namely that a successful vaccine should focus CD8 T cell responses on conserved regions of the virus and their existing variants . 
We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating neutrophils to the site of infection and the mobilization of newly generated neutrophils from the bone marrow depended on IL-1R . albicans . Strikingly , endothelial cells were identified as the primary cellular source of G-CSF during OPC , which responded to IL-1α that was released from keratinocytes in the infected tissue . These data establish a new link between IL-1 and granulopoiesis in the context of fungal infection . albicans are by far most abundant  . albicans . Neutrophils have been shown to rapidly accumulate in the oral mucosa in response to C . Indeed , IL-17 signaling can enhance expression of neutrophil cytopoietic and chemotactic factors in response to C . albicans  . However , we recently demonstrated that neutrophils are recruited normally to the site of infection in IL-17 receptor-deficient mice , thus that the IL-17 pathway is not required for the neutrophil response during OPC  . Therefore , although neutrophil trafficking may be regulated by IL-17 in some tissues and in response to certain pathogens —this is not the case during C . albicans infection in the oral mucosa . Alternative candidate factors regulating the neutrophil response include IL-1 . In fact , secretion of both IL-1α and IL-1β are efficiently induced in dendritic cells and macrophages when stimulated with C . albicans  and both IL-1 family members were shown to contribute to protection from systemic infection  . Epithelial cells also secrete IL-1 cytokines when triggered with C . albicans  , although in mice , unlike in humans , keratinocytes produce only IL-1α but no IL-1β  . Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis , we found that IL-1R signaling is critical for host defense by regulating the neutrophil response . We show here that IL-1 acts by two complementary mechanisms . First , it regulates the production of neutrophil-chemotactic factors by epithelial cells for the recruitment of neutrophils from the circulating pool to the site of infection . Second , it induces G-CSF production by the endothelium for enhanced neutrophil output from the bone marrow to meet the increased demand in response to infection . Release of IL-1α from keratinocytes upon contact with C . Following from our previous findings that neutrophil trafficking during OPC was independent of the IL-17 pathway  , we sought after factors responsible for controlling neutrophil recruitment in response to C . albicans . In consequence Il1r1-/- mice were unable to control the fungus and displayed an increased fungal load in the tongue on day 3 post-infection  . These data indicated clearly that IL-1R signaling was critical for the neutrophil response during OPC . Consistent with the role of IL-1 in neutrophil recruitment , chemokine expression in the oral epithelium was impaired in absence of IL-1R signaling  , while basal levels were comparable  . Consistent with this result , a cell line of tongue-derived keratinocytes  also secreted neutrophil-attracting chemokines in an IL-1-dependent manner in vitro  . These data suggested that the neutrophil response to OPC is initiated locally in the infected mucosa . albicans may directly induce chemokine expression in keratinocytes , their production is strongly enhanced by IL-1R signaling . In addition to the strong induction of the neutrophil-recruiting chemokines during OPC , the expression of Csf3 , the gene coding for G-CSF , was also markedly induced in the infected oral mucosa  , suggesting that it may contribute to the overall neutrophil response during OPC by boosting granulopoiesis and neutrophil egress from the bone marrow . Indeed , neutralization of G-CSF impaired the induction of emergency granulopoiesis during infection  . albicans  . 5 log reduction in neutrophils in absence of IL-1 signaling  lead to a ~2-log increase in fungal load over the same period of time  . For this , we isolated again CD45+ leukocytes , CD45- EpCAM+ CD31- keratinocytes , and CD45- EpCAM- CD31+ endothelial cells from the tongue of C . albicans-infected mice and uninfected controls as above  and analyzed Csf3 transcript levels in each population . Although keratinocytes were previously shown to secrete G-CSF in response to C . Similarly , leukocytes expressed only very low levels of G-CSF during OPC  . Again , by far the highest production of G-CSF was detected in the endothelial cell fraction isolated from infected mice  . Production of G-CSF by endothelial cells was supported by the observation that high levels of G-CSF could be detected in the serum of infected mice  . albicans , acts at a distance to promote granulopoiesis and neutrophil mobilization in the bone marrow and thereby sustains a systemic neutrophil response that meets the increased demand of these cells during OPC . Next , we investigated how G-CSF secretion by endothelial cells is regulated during OPC . albicans  . albicans with endothelial cells suggested that G-CSF production was regulated indirectly . Given the important role of IL-1 for the overall neutrophil response to C . albicans , we assessed the IL-1 dependence of G-CSF during OPC . The induction of Csf3 transcripts was less pronounced in the oral mucosa of Il1r1-/- mice  , while basal levels were unchanged  . Likewise , G-CSF protein expression by endothelial cells that were sorted from infected tongues was drastically diminished in absence of IL-1R signaling  . albicans-infected Il1r1-/- mice compared to WT controls  . In contrast , TNF , which had been proposed to regulate G-CSF expression in vitro  , was not involved in G-CSF production during OPC  . As a consequence of the G-CSF defect in Il1r1-/- mice , emergency granulopoiesis was strongly impaired during OPC in these mice , as indicated by the higher ratio of mature to immature neutrophils in the bone marrow of infected Il1r1-/- mice compared to WT controls  . Importantly , Il1r1-/- mice responded to G-CSF treatment , and the administration of recombinant G-CSF was sufficient to fully overcome the defect in emergency granulopoiesis in these mice  . Together , these data demonstrated , that G-CSF secretion during OPC was controlled by the IL-1 pathway . G-CSF production appeared to underlie a different regulatory mechanism compared to neutrophil chemokine production during OPC given their distinct cellular sources , despite the fact that both , chemokines and G-CSF , depended on IL-1R signaling . Next , we examined the expression of IL-1α and IL-1β , the two activating ligands of the IL-1R . IL-1α and IL-1β contribute to G-CSF production during OPC because the induction of G-CSF expression in the oral mucosa and its release into the serum were strongly impaired in absence of IL-1α or IL-1β  . IL-1β was expressed predominantly by the hematopoietic compartment as assessed by flow cytometric analysis of intracellular pro-IL-1β  . To determine the cellular source of IL-1α in the murine tongue , we applied an immunofluorescence approach , which allowed us to detect IL-1α with high specificity on tissue sections . Co-staining with antibodies specific for keratinocytes of the tongue  or those of stratum basale   revealed that IL-1α was predominantly produced by differentiated keratinocytes  . Note that the IL-1α signal was absent in neutrophil-rich areas , which were identified by DAPI staining . As such , keratinocyte-derived IL-1α may also act on endothelial cells and thereby contribute to the neutrophil response during OPC . To delineate the putative crosstalk between keratinocytes and endothelial cells in more detail , we made use of a newly generated cell line of mouse tongue-derived keratinocytes   . Consistent with published data with keratinocytes from other sources  , TDKs released IL-1α when stimulated with C . albicans  . Notably , and in contrast to human keratinocytes  , mouse keratinocytes released no IL-1β  . albicans did not induce IL-1α  . albicans resulted from the release of preformed cytokine and de novo biosynthesis of IL-1α  . Next , we tested the effect of TDKs and TDK-derived IL-1α on endothelial cells for G-CSF induction  . albicans-stimulated TDKs  . albicans was added to MS1 cells  . albicans-induced TDK-derived soluble factor was responsible for G-CSF production by endothelial cells . To test whether this factor was IL-1α , we added anakinra  or a neutralizing anti-IL-1α antibody into the supernatant-transfer assay . This resulted in a complete abolishment of the response  , while adding an anti-IL-1β antibody had no effect on G-CSF induction by TDK-derived factors  , consistent with the notion that IL-1β was not produced by murine keratinocytes  . IL-1α was not only necessary but also sufficient for triggering G-CSF production in endothelial cells , because MS1 cells secreted large quantities of G-CSF when stimulated with recombinant IL-1α  . In summary , these results revealed a novel IL-1α-dependent crosstalk between epithelial and endothelial cells that mediates the induction of G-CSF by C . albicans . We demonstrated how IL-1R signaling regulates the neutrophil response against C . Specifically , it promotes the production of chemokines by oral keratinocytes for neutrophil recruitment from the circulating pool , and it induces G-CSF secretion from endothelial cells to enhance granulopoiesis in the bone marrow to meet the rapid demand for neutrophils in the tissue . IL-1R signaling thereby translates the local response to a tissue-specific infection into a systemic response . The availability of preformed IL-1α from keratinocytes , which are the first cells to be exposed to C . albicans during infection , is critical for the initiation of the response . Together , our data demonstrate how signaling through the IL-1R coordinates a cellular crosstalk between keratinocytes , endothelial cells and neutrophils for optimal control of C . albicans in the oral mucosa . The neutrophil response in the oral mucosa was originally thought to be controlled by the IL-17 pathway , which itself is highly critical for fungal control during OPC  . However , previous work from our laboratory showed that the key protective function of IL-17 is uncoupled from the neutrophil response  . Although IL-17 signaling can enhance the expression of neutrophil chemokines and granulopoietic factors  , IL-17 is not required for neutrophil chemotaxis and function during OPC  . Instead , neutrophil trafficking to the oral mucosa during acute infection is under the control of IL-1R signaling as our data demonstrate . IL-1R deficiency is associated with impaired neutrophil recruitment and defective fungal control in response to OPC . Here , we used the model of OPC to dissect the impact of IL-1R signaling on neutrophil mobilization and recruitment in response to C . albicans infection at a cellular and molecular level . Keratinocytes take center stage in the coordination of the IL-1-mediated neutrophil response during OPC . Chemokine production by keratinocytes was greatly enhanced by IL-1R signaling and at least in part through the autocrine activity of IL-1α . A second mechanism , by which keratinocytes promote the neutrophil response during OPC , is by the induction of G-CSF via their capacity to produce IL-1α . Our data thus link IL-1 signaling and G-CSF production . G-CSF regulates granulopoiesis and neutrophil mobilization in the bone marrow , which is critical to meet the rapidly increasing demand of neutrophils in the infected tissue . We identified endothelial cells in the oral tissue to be the major producers of G-CSF during OPC , while we were unable to detect G-CSF expression by murine keratinocytes in response to C . albicans . Direct secretion of G-CSF into the bloodstream by endothelial cells facilitates its delivery to the distant bone marrow and the induction of a systemic response . albicans , and endothelial cells were not activated by the fungus in vitro . Instead , G-CSF was produced as a result of an IL-1-dependent crosstalk between keratinocytes and endothelial cells . IL-1α was critical for the secretion of G-CSF into the circulation during OPC , and it was sufficient for stimulating G-CSF production by endothelial cells in culture , consistent with a published report  . In contrast , TNF , which was also reported to induce G-CSF production by endothelial cells in vitro  , did not regulate G-CSF production during OPC . In addition to IL-1α , IL-1β also contributes to the antifungal response in vivo and at least partially compensates in absence of IL-1α . IL-1β was also induced in the oral mucosa during infection . IL-1β induction in response to C . Whether its function at the level of the mucosal stroma is linked to the IL-1 pathway and whether it is involved in IL-1α production in keratinocytes was not addressed . We found that the overall IL-1α response resulted from the release of preformed and intracellularly stored IL-1α on the one hand , and from the induction of de novo synthesis on the other hand . The release of IL-1α from keratinocytes correlates with the induction of cell damage  , suggesting that IL-1α release may be a consequence of cell death induced by fungal invasion . It remains to be determined whether IL-1α secretion by oral keratinocytes in response to C . albicans for the induction of inflammation and protection from infection in vivo , and they dissect the mechanism how IL-1 coordinates the neutrophil response against the fungus in the oral epithelium . Il1a-/- mice   , Il1b-/- mice   and Il1r1-/- mice  were bred at the Laboratory Animal Service Center  . For neutrophil depletion , mice were treated with anti-Ly6G  and/or anti-G-CSF  , as indicated . For inhibition of emergency granulopoiesis , mice were treated with anti-G-CSF  . For induction of emergency granulopoiesis , mice were injected with human recombinant G-CSF  . Tongue-derived keratinocytes  were obtained from WT mice . Prior to stimulation experiments , TDK and MS1 cells were rested for 48 hours and then stimulated with recombinant IL-1α  , IL-1β  , anakinra  , zymosan  , curdlan  , LPS  or C . albicans at MOI = 3 for 24 hours . G-CSF production by MS1 cells was determined by ELISA after 24 hours  . In some experiments , TDK supernatants were treated with anti-IL-1α  and/or anti-IL-1β  before they were added to MS1 cells , or MS1 cells were pretreated with anakinra for 30 minutes before addition of TDK supernatant . The primers were Actb fwd 5'-CCCTGAAGTACCCCATTGAAC-3' , Actb rev 5'-CTTTTCACGGTTGGCCTTAG-3'; Cxcl1 fwd 5'-CCGCTCGCTTTCTGTG-3' , Cxcl1 rev 5'-GCAGCTCATTGGCGATAG-3'; Cxcl2 fwd 5'-AGTGAACTGCGCTGTCAATGC-3' , Cxcl2 rev 5'-GCAAACTTTTTGACCGCCCT-3'; Cxcl5 fwd 5'- GAAAGCTAAGCGGAATGCAC-3' , Cxcl5 rev 5'-GGGACAATGGTTTCCCTTTT-3'; Csf3 fwd 5'-CTTAAGTCCCTGGAGCAAGTG-3' , Csf3 rev GTGGCCCAGCAACACCAG; Il1a fwd 5'-GGGAAGATTCTGAAGAAGAG-3' , Il1a rev 5'-TAACAGGATATTTAGAGTCG-3'; Il1b fwd 5'-TACAGGCTCCGAGATGAACA-3' , Il1b rev 5'-AGGCCACAGGTATTTTGTCG-3' . For determination of IL-1α and IL-1β levels in cell culture supernatants , cytometric bead array assays  were performed according to the manufacturer’s instructions . 
To calculate the economic benefits , the number of clinical manifestations averted was first quantified and the savings associated with this disease prevention then analyzed in the context of direct treatment costs , indirect costs of lost-labor , and costs to the health system to care for affected individuals . 8 billion of direct economic benefits will be gained over the lifetime of 31 . 4 million individuals treated during the first 8 years of the GPELF . Similarly , more than 28 million individuals already infected with LF benefit from GPELF's halting the progression of their disease , which results in an associated lifetime economic benefit of approximately US$19 . 5 billion . In addition to these economic benefits to at-risk individuals , decreased patient services associated with reduced LF morbidity saves the health systems of endemic countries approximately US$2 . 2 billion . MDA for LF offers significant economic benefits . 3 billion at-risk persons in 83 endemic countries . Over the first 8 operational years of the GPELF  , more than 1 . 9 billion MDA treatments were administered to approximately 570 million individuals in 48 countries . Specifically , how much financial cost and loss of income is prevented over the lifetimes of individuals protected from LF due to the first 8 years of the GPELF ? And , what cost savings do national health systems realize from the reduction in LF infection and morbidity ? This study offers such an economic analysis and estimates that following the first 8 years of the GPELF , US$21 . 8 billion of economic benefits will be gained by LF infected and non-infected individuals in MDA-treated areas , in addition to US$2 . The previous section defined a 4-part benefit cohort population as the group of protected individuals who will realize economic benefits as a result of MDA activity between 2000–2007 . The total economic impact of the GPELF , however , extends over a much longer period than these first 8 years because protection from LF infection or disease progression is a lifelong benefit . It is therefore necessary to aggregate the total economic benefit gained over the projected remaining lifetime of the benefit cohort population . All calculated costs and benefits are discounted to the base year of 2008 . For this study , 2008 was used as the base year for calculating economic benefits . GPELF program costs can be compared with the economic benefits calculated in this study through a cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the efficiency and practicality of implementing the Global Programme . On a macro-level , no study has yet been conducted to estimate the total cost of the GPELF over its first 8 years and as a result , a broader programmatic cost-benefit analysis cannot be calculated . It is possible , however , to estimate the cost-benefit on an individual-level using per person costs calculated in a multi-country study of national MDA program costs for LF including training , mapping , mobilization , distribution , monitoring , and surveillance  . analyzed both the average annual economic cost per person treated  and also the financial cost per person treated  from data collected through questionnaires and adjusted for LF-specific activities . In terms of per person economic benefits , the total economic benefits estimated over one year in this study was divided by the total number of people treated with MDA in that same year . For this analysis , per person economic benefits were only calculated for the 7 countries whose program costs were also evaluated in Goldman et al . Cost-benefit was then measured using benefit-cost ratios  , which is the per person treated benefit divided by the per person treated cost . For standardization purposes , the BCR reflects costs , benefits , and currencies adjusted to the year of the most recent MDA round in Goldman et al . 4 million individuals – defined in this study as the benefit cohort population – will gain economic benefits over their lifetime from averting direct treatment costs and indirect lost-labor costs . 4 million individuals in the benefit cohort population , 2 . 7 million  individuals are those who were already infected at the time of MDA treatment but benefit from halted disease progression . As seen in Table 5 , the efforts in reaching and administering MDA to such a large population have produced extraordinary economic benefits over the first 8 years of the GPELF . All average costs and rate of disease estimates were weighted annually by country-specific estimates and with respect to total number of person-years . On average , each individual of the benefit cohort population will avoid nearly $700 in LF-associated costs that would have accrued over his/her lifetime . These sums and averages are even greater when considered in a single year-to-year perspective , since beyond 2008 , each year of economic benefit is discounted by 3% per year . On a per person lifetime average , however , subclinical  and ‘other protected individuals’  benefits are larger . Figure 3 highlights the total economic benefit segmented by cost , morbidity , and clinical presentation . Economic benefits to national health systems resulting from reduced LF infections derive particularly from patient service costs averted in the public sector . 2 billion in health system costs will be saved over the lifetime of the benefit cohort population  . 8 billion savings for individuals , the total economic benefit following the first 8 years of the GPELF is estimated at an extraordinary US$24 . 0 billion  . The total estimated economic impact is particularly sensitive to these variables because of the large number of clinical disease patients receiving MDA and the high proportion of total prevented costs that come from indirect labor costs . As a result , sensitivity analyses were carried out to assess the range of economic benefits that can be achieved under varying estimates of each variable . found the average annual economic cost per person treated  ranged from US$0 . The average annual financial cost per person treated  ranged from US$0 . One-year economic benefits per person treated in this study ranged from US$1 . Table 10 compares these economic benefit estimates with the economic and financial costs from Goldman et al . The economic cost BCR for the three African countries using the ivermectin+albendazole regimen are lower  than those in countries using DEC+albendazole  . Since the drugs , however , are available at no cost to the GPELF , BCRs calculated using financial costs are more favorable , ranging from 1 . In Table 10 , the BCRs calculated with economic costs are low , particularly for the African countries using the ivermectin+albendazole regimen . Therefore , understanding the financial costs  to the GPELF is more relevant for policy- and decision-making than is the analysis of economic costs . When comparing financial costs to economic benefits , then , Table 10 shows very favorable BCRs , including up to 18 . Whether examining financial or economic costs , the BCR becomes larger in the years beyond the recommended 5 rounds of MDA to achieve lifetime protection from LF . In the Philippines for example , by conservatively extrapolating the initial year's annual economic cost over 5 years , the cost to lifetime benefit ratio indicates that a $1 investment leads to a sizable return of $60 per individual treated . Indeed , even if annual economic costs were to persist at an equivalent rate for an additional 10 to 15 years , the economic rate of return per person treated is still approximately $20–$30 for every $1 invested . Comparing the cost-benefit of the GPELF to that of other NTD programs is difficult because there are few directly comparable analyses , particularly at a global level . A review of the African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control  projected an economic rate of return of 6% to 17% but did not factor in the implied economic cost of the donated drug  . This finding is less than the drug-excluded LF cost-benefit estimate presented here , however , several economic benefits apart from onchocercal blindness prevention were not analyzed in the APOC review . In a review of several malaria costing studies , the BCR ranged from 1 . The true economic value of the GPELF is , therefore , arguably much higher based on the numerous quality-of-life benefits achieved through clinical disease aversion , as well as the economic impact that MDA has on other diseases and syndromes related to LF . Despite important limitations to our analysis , this study identifies a wide array of economic benefits that have resulted from the first 8 years of the GPELF – approximately US$21 . 8 billion of direct and indirect patient costs will be prevented in the lifetimes of more than 31 million individuals , US$2 . Extrapolating this proportion with the US$24 billion lifetime economic benefit already achieved , the full potential economic benefit of the GPELF could be in excess of US$55 billion distributed over each of the endemic WHO regions  . 
To investigate how GBA mutations cause PD , we generated GBA nonsense mutant  medaka that are completely deficient in glucocerebrosidase  activity . In contrast to the perinatal death in humans and mice lacking GCase activity , GBA-/- medaka survived for months , enabling analysis of the pathological progression . GBA-/- medaka displayed the pathological phenotypes resembling human neuronopathic GD including infiltration of Gaucher cell-like cells into the brains , progressive neuronal loss , and microgliosis . Unexpectedly , disruption of α-syn did not improve the life span , formation of axonal swellings , neuronal loss , or neuroinflammation in GBA-/- medaka . Taken together , the present study revealed GBA-/- medaka as a novel neuronopathic GD model , the pahological mechanisms of α-syn accumulation caused by GCase deficiency , and the minimal contribution of α-syn to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD . Several cellular , animal , and postmortem studies have indicated an association between GBA mutations and α-syn accumulation . For example , deficiency in GCase enzymatic activity causes lysosomal dysfunction and α-syn accumulation . Medaka  are a versatile vertebrate animal model for disease research . Importantly , medaka have an advantage as an animal model of PD due to endogenous α-syn in contrast to invertebrate models that lack α-syn . Moreover , several genetic manipulations can be performed in medaka in addition to established transgenic techniques . So far , we have reported genetic PD models of medaka that develop locomotor dysfunction accompanied by the selective loss of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons . Considering these lines of evidence , medaka have the potential to be a new animal model of PD . Here , we generated GBA nonsense mutant medaka and found that homozygous GBA nonsense mutant  medaka are a viable neuronopathic GD model . GBA-/- medaka developed remarkable α-syn accumulation in the brains and thus provide novel insights into the association of GBA mutations with α-syn accumulation . Furthermore , we revealed minimal contribution of endogenous α-syn to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka . We generated GBA nonsense mutant medaka to investigate the mechanisms by which GBA mutation leads to PD . To identify medaka GBA orthologs , we searched the medaka genome database  with the basic local alignment search tool and found only one ortholog of human GBA . The amino acid sequence of medaka GBA showed 53% homology to that of human GBA  . Next , we screened a targeting-induced local lesions in genome  library for medaka GBA using a high-resolution melting assay . We identified a nonsense mutant  and generated the nonsense mutant medaka by in vitro fertilization  . We examined GCase activity in the brains of GBA mutants after crossing with heterozygous mutants . GBAW337X/W337X  medaka showed complete deficiency in GCase activity , and GBAWT/W337X  medaka showed a decrease in GCase activity of about 50% compared to wild-type  medaka  . Although humans and mice lacking GCase activity die soon after birth , GBA-/- medaka survived for more than 3 months , enabling us to analyze the pathological progression  . GBA-/- medaka showed abnormal rotating swimming movement at 2 months  and the abnormal appearance of a bent spine at 3 months  . High levels of glucocerebroside accumulated in the brains of GBA-/- medaka  , whereas the amount of galactocerebroside , an isomer of glucocerebroside , was not changed . Glucocerebroside with C18 fatty acids was the most dominant type in the brains of GBA-/- medaka  , an observation that is consistent with the neuronopathic GD mouse model . We performed pathological analyses of GBA-/- medaka . Next , we examined the brains of GBA-/- medaka and found abnormal cells with large vacuoles mainly in the periventricular gray zone of the optic tectum  . The staining intensity with Luxol fast blue was decreased , and single-stranded DNA  -positive cells were observed in GBA-/- medaka  , indicating myelin loss and cell death , respectively . In situ hybridization for apolipoprotein E  , a microglial marker in teleost fish , revealed proliferating activated microglia in GBA-/- medaka  . Humans and mice with neuronopathic GD show astrogliosis in their brains , whereas neither proliferation of GFAP-positive radial glial cells nor elevated levels of GFAP were observed in GBA-/- medaka  . GBA-/- medaka showed progressive cell loss of all these neurons  . Consistent with these findings , the amount of TH was decreased in GBA-/- medaka  . Collectively , GBA-/- medaka exhibited neuronopathic GD-like pathology including progressive and non-selective neuronal loss . Medaka express α-syn , which is a protein consisting of 127 amino acids . To investigate α-syn pathology in GBA-/- medaka , we created a medaka α-syn antibody against the epitope of amino acids 90 to 104  . Medaka also express β-synuclein , γ-synuclein-a , and γ-synuclein-b in addition to α-syn , but these other synucleins do not have amino acid sequences homologous to the epitope of the medaka α-syn antibody  . Next , we generated α-syn deletion mutant medaka using TALENs . Wild-type , heterozygous , and homozygous α-syn deletion mutant  medaka could be distinguished with PCR analysis of α-syn  . RT-PCR analysis of α-syn mRNA revealed that α-syn-/- medaka did not express intact α-syn mRNA  . Western blot analysis with the medaka α-syn antibody revealed a 14-kDa band , which was specifically found in α-syn+/+ medaka  . The authenticity of the antibody was confirmed by the lack of immunostaining with the medaka α-syn antibody in the brains of α-syn-/- medaka  . Consistent with the findings in mammals , medaka α-syn was mainly found presynaptically with immunoelectron microscopy  . Then , we performed immunohistochemical analysis and found abundant α-syn accumulation in the brains of GBA-/- medaka at 3 months  . α-syn accumulation was also observed at 2 months , but not at 1 month  . Transmission electron microscopy revealed numerous axonal swellings containing vacuoles and other various materials in the brains of GBA-/- medaka  . Consistent with this , LC3 , an autophagosomal marker , accumulated in the brains of GBA-/- medaka  . In addition to these findings , ubiquitin also accumulated in α-syn-positive axonal swellings  . The total amount of α-syn in the Triton-soluble fraction was not increased in GBA-/- medaka . However , when adjusted for the amount of neuron-specific enolase  and considering the robust neuronal loss in GBA-/- medaka , α-syn was significantly increased in GBA-/- medaka  . The decreased amount of neurofilament also reflected the neuronal loss in GBA-/- medaka  . In agreement with the accumulation of autophagosomes in axonal swellings , the ratio of LC3-II to LC3-I was increased in GBA-/- medaka  . Meanwhile , we also investigated the phenotypes of GBA+/- medaka because heterozygous mutations in GBA are a strong risk for PD . However , GBA+/- medaka even at 12 months did not show any apparent abnormal phenotypes including α-syn pathology , the numbers of TH-positive neurons , swimming movement , or the amounts of several neurotransmitters  . These observations prompted us to examine the autophagy-lysosome pathway in GBA-/- medaka . Western blot analysis showed that the amounts of ubiquitin and p62 were increased in the brains of GBA-/- medaka  . GBA nonsense mutant medaka have random point mutations in the genome at loci other than GBA . Therefore , we performed a rescue experiment to determine whether the abnormal phenotypes observed in GBA-/- medaka were really caused by GBA mutation . We created medaka GBA-expressing vectors driven by a medaka growth-associated protein 43  promoter   . GAP-43 mRNA is expressed mainly in nervous system in medaka . We established six medaka GBA transgenic lines ( Tg  ) using these vectors and crossed them with GBA nonsense mutant medaka . Each line of GBA-/- medaka with GBA transgene ( Tg  ;GBA-/- ) showed GCase activity of various levels in the brains at 3 months  . All lines of Tg  ;GBA-/- medaka showed normal swimming movement at 2 months  . Also , the swimming distance was increased in Tg  line3;GBA-/- medaka  . Pathological analysis of the brains of Tg  line3;GBA-/- medaka including hematoxylin and eosin staining , in situ hybridization for APOE , and immunohistochemistry for p62 and α-syn revealed no apparent abnormality  . We concluded that the abnormal phenotypes observed in the brains of GBA-/- medaka were caused by the GBA mutation . Many studies have reported that accumulated α-syn caused by α-syn overexpression results in neurotoxicity . We examined the toxicity of α-syn in GBA-/- medaka by crossing GBA nonsense mutant medaka with α-syn deletion mutant medaka . α-syn-/- medaka showed no apparent abnormal phenotypes in their outer appearance , swimming movement , or life span like α-syn-disrupted mice . The life spans of GBA-/-α-syn+/- and GBA-/-α-syn-/- medaka were not prolonged compared to that of GBA-/-α-syn+/+ medaka  . Moreover , the number of LC3-positive puncta was not changed in GBA-/-α-syn-/- medaka , indicating that α-syn was not primarily involved in formation of axonal swellings  . The numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the middle diencephalon and noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus were not changed in either GBA-/- α-syn+/- or GBA-/- α-syn-/- medaka  . Collectively , we found no evidence for α-syn involvement in the short life span , formation of axonal swellings , dopaminergic and noradrenergic neuronal loss , and neuroinflammation that are observed in GBA -/- medaka . The present study revealed that GBA-/- medaka survive long enough for pathological analysis of disease progression . As an example , GBA-/- medaka showed α-syn accumulation at 2 months , not at 1 month after fertilization . Considering these observations , GBA-/- medaka are useful as a viable neuronopathic GD model with endogenous α-syn accumulation . GBA-/- medaka showed several phenotypes different from those of mammalian neuronopathic GD model . Firstly , the skin of GBA-/- medaka looks intact whereas severe skin lesion is observed in patients with perinatal lethal type GD and Gba null mice . Secondly , GBA-/- medaka exhibited PAS-positive abnormal cells in spleen and kidney which presumably correspond to human Gaucher cells . Lastly , the proliferation of GFAP-positive radial glial cells was not observed in GBA-/- medaka whereas astrogliosis is observed in humans and mice with neuronopathic GD . Because GBA+/- medaka as old as 12 months did not show any apparent abnormal phenotypes , we could not directly investigate how heterozygous GBA mutations cause PD . However , our findings from GBA+/- medaka seem to be reasonable because the penetrance of PD in GBA mutation carriers is estimated to be at most 30% by the age of 80 years . Cellular and animal PD models overexpressing α-syn have provided evidence for the various potential toxic mechanisms of α-syn . However , few studies have demonstrated the pathological role of endogenous α-syn in vivo , which may reflect the authentic role for α-syn in PD . In the present study , disruption of α-syn did not improve the life span , neuronal loss , or neuroinflammation in GBA-/- medaka . Moreover , α-syn was not involved in the accumulation of autophagosomes in axons . Our data indicate that α-syn accumulation is a downstream event , and other severe pathological factors may obscure the involvement of α-syn in the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka . In summary , the present study showed that GBA-/- medaka are useful as a viable neuronopathic GD model with endogenous α-syn accumulation . Our data revealed that GCase deficiency causes lysosomal dysfunction in neurons and α-syn accumulation in axonal swellings containing autophagosomes . Axonal transport of α-syn may play an important role in the mechanisms of GBA mutations leading to PD and may also be a therapeutic target in PD . Furthermore , we demonstrate the minimal contribution of α-syn to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka . GBA-/- medaka represent a valuable model for exploring the pathological mechanisms and also provide a new platform for developing treatments in PD with GBA mutations as well as neuronopathic GD . Medaka were anesthetized in 0 . RNA was extracted from wild-type medaka brains with Qiazol  according to the manufacturer’s instructions . To identify medaka GBA , SNCA , SNCGb , p62/SQSTM1 , and MAP1LC3B orthologs , we referred to the medaka genome database  . GBA mutant medaka were generated as described . We screened the TILLING library for exons 1–2 , exons 5–7 , exon 8 , and exons 9–11 of GBA . For the rescue experiment , we established GBA transgenic medaka in which medaka GBA expression was driven by the medaka GAP-43 promoter ( Tg  ) . The medaka GAP-43 promoter contained a 1 . α-syn deletion mutant medaka were generated with TALENs as described . RT-PCR for α-syn was performed with the following primer sets   . Image acquisition began 5 min after medaka were placed in a new water tank . Medaka brains were stored at—80°C until analyses and homogenized in 1 ml tissue homogenization buffer  . A synthetic peptide corresponding to amino acids 90–104 of medaka α-syn conjugated to Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin was used for immunization of rabbits . For paraffin sections , medaka brains were fixed in 4%  PFA at 4°C for 16 hr , dehydrated , and embedded in paraffin . RNA was extracted from medaka brains with Qiazol  according to the manufacturer’s instructions . The vector including a portion of the medaka APOE cDNA sequence was generously provided by Dr . For detection of medaka α-syn and mouse α-syn , the membranes were treated with 0 . For western blot analyses , the following primary antibodies were used: anti-β-actin  , anti-GFAP  , anti-LC3  , anti-NSE  , anti-α-syn  , anti-medaka α-syn  , anti-phosphorylated neurofilament  , anti-p62  , anti-TH  , and anti-ubiquitin  . Medaka brains were fixed with 4%  PFA and 2%  glutaraldehyde  in 0 . Briefly , brains were quickly removed from medaka and immersed in 4% PFA buffered with 0 . 02 M glycine , treated with 1% bovine serum albumin in PBS , and incubated overnight at 4°C with rabbit anti-medaka α-syn antibody  . 
monocytogenes to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity . monocytogenes confined within a phagosome is not merely a consequence of inefficient antigen presentation , but is the result of direct suppression of the adaptive response . monocytogenes , but negated the response to bacteria within the cytosol . Co-infection with phagosome-confined and cytosolic L . monocytogenes strain alone . monocytogenes has been studied for decades as a model of innate and cellular immunity  . Once within the cytosol , the bacteria express ActA that facilitates cell to cell spread via polymerization of host-cell actin  . ActA-deficient mutants still induce protective immunity , while mutants lacking LLO  elicit an antigen-specific T cell response , but these T cells are unable to provide protective immunity  ,  . We questioned how the response to a bacterium confined within a phagosome would impact the adaptive response to a bacterium within the host cell cytosol . monocytogenes . The first strain , ActA-Lm , escapes into the host cell cytosol and elicits long-lived CD8 T cell-dependent protective immunity  ,  . Because it cannot spread between cells , ActA-Lm is highly attenuated in vivo , can be administered at a higher dose , and is rapidly cleared from both liver and spleen  . A second strain , LLO-Lm , is unable to produce listeriolysin O  , and thus cannot escape from the phagosome  . Importantly , infection with LLO-Lm elicits CD8 T cells , but little or no protective immunity to a lethal wild-type L . monocytogenes challenge  ,  . To better understand the impact of phagosome-confined bacteria on the adaptive immune response we infected cohorts of mice with an identical dose of ActA-Lm-OVA ( 1×105 colony forming units  ) , a dose sufficient to elicit long-lived CD8 T cell-mediated protective immunity . To this inoculum , we added increasing numbers of phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA . monocytogenes-OVA , and then enumerating CFU in the spleen  . Strikingly , the protective immunity typically elicited by ActA-Lm-OVA was compromised by the presence of phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA during primary infection . A potential explanation for this finding was that the addition of LLO-Lm-OVA to the inoculum facilitated more rapid clearance of ActA-Lm-OVA , decreasing the duration of antigen presentation and negatively impacting T cell potency . To test this hypothesis , we used an erythromycin-resistant strain of ActA-Lm  combined with a large number of LLO-Lm  . We followed the clearance of the ActA-Lm-ErmR strain by enumerating CFU on agar containing erythromycin  . Importantly , the addition of LLO-Lm did not impact the rate at which ActA-Lm-ErmR were cleared from the spleen or liver or the in vitro growth rate within bone marrow-derived macrophages . monocytogenes were added to an inoculum of ActA-Lm  . Similar to our observations with LLO-Lm , the addition of HK-L . monocytogenes also limited protective immunity . Finally , the addition of LLO-Lm-OVA to an inoculum of wt-L . monocytogenes also impaired protective immunity  . Thus , as few as 9×105 CFU of phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA added to an inoculum of cytosolic ActA-Lm-OVA during primary infection leads to a greater than 1000-fold increase in CFU following wild-type challenge . Given the role of CD8 T cells in protective immunity , we questioned how the addition of increasing numbers phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA would impact the primary T cell response to a constant dose of ActA-Lm-OVA . monocytogenes challenge , the 10 to 1000-fold increase in the number of OVA-expressing bacteria did not improve the primary T cell response . Instead , the magnitude of the primary CD8 OVA257–264 and CD4 LLO190–201–specific response declined as the ratio of phagosome-confined to cytosolic bacteria increased  . To understand if suppression of the T cell response was antigen specific , we performed similar studies using LLO-Lm that did not express OVA  . These studies demonstrated that suppression was antigen-independent , as LLO-Lm expresses neither the OVA257–264 nor the LLO190–201 epitopes . Therefore , the presence of LLO-Lm within a phagosome negatively impacts both the primary CD4 and CD8 T cell response to cytosolic ActA-Lm as well as protective immunity . monocytogenes altered the inflammatory cytokine response to the cytosolic ActA-Lm strain . We compared serum cytokines between mice infected with ActA-Lm-OVA alone versus in combination with increasing numbers of LLO-Lm-OVA . Infection with combinations of LLO-Lm-OVA and ActA-Lm-OVA led to the dose-dependent reduction of serum IFN-γ , IL-12p70 , IL-6 and MCP-1 relative to ActA-Lm-OVA alone  . Thus , LLO-Lm-OVA bacteria within a phagosome exert a negative effect on the pro-inflammatory response elicited by ActA-Lm-OVA within the cytosol . Because many vacuolar pathogens elicit a Th2-type cytokine profile  , we questioned the ability of LLO-Lm-OVA to elicit cytokines that might limit the potency of the adaptive T cell response . Four hours post infection , serum IL-10 was detectable in mice immunized with LLO-Lm-OVA , either alone or in combination with ActA-Lm-OVA , and required the adapter protein MyD88  . Thus , the addition of phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA to an inoculum of ActA-Lm-OVA inhibits inflammatory cytokine production and corresponds with elevated levels of IL-10 . To examine the role of IL-10 in limiting the potency of the adaptive response to LLO-Lm-OVA , mice were infected with ActA-Lm-OVA and LLO-Lm-OVA in combination with an antagonist IL-10 receptor antibody   . Only the highest dose of LLO-Lm-OVA was used in combination with ActA-Lm-OVA , a combination that led to the greatest suppression of inflammatory cytokines and protective immunity  . monocytogenes-OVA and protective immunity assessed 3 days later . Impressively , mice co-infected with LLO-Lm-OVA and ActA-Lm-OVA in the presence of IL-10R blockade demonstrated equivalent protection against wt-L . monocytogenes-OVA challenge as anti-IL-10R treated mice infected with ActA-Lm-OVA alone  . IL-10 production following LLO-Lm infection was MyD88-dependent; therefore we questioned whether LLO-Lm would limit ActA-Lm-induced protective immunity in mice lacking MyD88 . Similar to the results following IL-10R blockade , MyD88−/−mice immunized with the combination of ActA-Lm-OVA and LLO-Lm-OVA were protected against a lethal challenge with wt L . monocytogenes  . monocytogenes to limit the adaptive response to L . monocytogenes within the cytosol is eliminated . Our original goal in these studies was to improve the potency of CD8 T cells responding to phagosome-confined LLO-Lm-OVA by complementing it with a cytosolic L . monocytogenes strain . Surprisingly , we found that the presence of phagosome-confined LLO-Lm negated the innate response to the cytosolic L . Both ActA-Lm and LLO-Lm are similarly distributed amongst phagocytic cells in vivo  . Furthermore , because ActA-Lm cannot polymerize host-cell actin , neither strain will spread into neighbouring cells  . Thus the ratio of ActA-Lm to LLO-Lm will not alter the cell types that interact with the bacteria . monocytogenes , we decreased the dose of ActA-Lm to 1×105 CFU  then added 10–1000-fold of LLO-Lm to the inoculum . The innate response to infection plays a pivotal role in shaping the adaptive immune response  . Thus , by virtue of its inability to escape from the phagosome , LLO-Lm alters the innate inflammatory landscape and ultimately , the potency of the Listeria-specific T cell response . monocytogenes infection  . Conversely , when the IL-10 receptor was blocked during immunization with LLO-Lm-OVA , protective immunity improved , resulting in 2–3 logs fewer CFU following lethal challenge . While IL-10 was detectable in low , but reproducible amounts following immunization with LLO-Lm-OVA , we were unable to measure IL-10 following immunization with ActA-Lm  . Furthermore , serum IL-10 was only consistently detectable using the highest dose of LLO-Lm , 1×108 CFU . This approach increased serum IL-10 following LLO-Lm-OVA immunization 5–10-fold , while IL-10 in ActA-Lm immunized mice remained undetectable  . Thus , while IL-10 certainly impacts T cell potency following infection with wild-type- or ActA-Lm , its concentration is far below that measured after immunization with LLO-Lm-OVA . When assessing the role of IL-10R signalling on the suppression of memory T cell function , we chose to use the highest dose of LLO-Lm  in combination with 1×105 CFU ActA-Lm . Thus , while we demonstrated suppression of the T cell response by a 1000-fold range of LLO-Lm , the highest and most inhibitory dose was chosen to assess the dependence on IL-10R signalling . monocytogenes infection , IL-10 acts as a negative regulator of T cell potency in CD8 T cells , while acting as a positive regulator of cellular immunity via its effects on other cell types . monocytogenes strains ActA-Lm-OVA and LLO-Lm-OVA were constructed as previously described  . monocytogenes infection . monocytogenes-OVA  . Coverslips were vortexed in lysis buffer and plated on strep-erm agar to enumerate ActA-Lm-ErmR bacteria . 
Genome-wide association studies have previously identified a significant association between POAG and the SIX6 locus ( rs10483727 , odds ratio  = 1 . SIX6 plays a role in ocular development and has been associated with the morphology of the optic nerve . We sequenced the SIX6 coding and regulatory regions in 262 POAG cases and 256 controls and identified six nonsynonymous coding variants , including five rare and one common variant , Asn141His  , which was associated significantly with POAG  in the NEIGHBOR/GLAUGEN datasets . Five variants , found primarily in POAG cases , were hypomorphic or null , while the sixth variant , found only in controls , was benign . One variant in the SIX6 enhancer increased expression of SIX6 and disrupted its regulation . Finally , to our knowledge for the first time , we have identified a clinical feature in POAG patients that appears to be dependent upon SIX6 genotype: patients who are homozygous for the SIX6 risk allele  have a statistically thinner retinal nerve fiber layer than patients homozygous for the SIX6 non-risk allele  . Our results , in combination with previous SIX6 work , lead us to hypothesize that SIX6 risk variants disrupt the development of the neural retina , leading to a reduced number of retinal ganglion cells , thereby increasing the risk of glaucoma-associated vision loss . 87×10−11 ) at the SIX1/SIX6 locus  . Variants in the SIX1/SIX6 locus were first associated with quantitative optic nerve parameters in controls , including vertical cup-disc ratio  , which is used clinically to diagnose and monitor POAG progression  ,  . Several studies have independently confirmed the association of the SIX1/SIX6 locus with both VCDR and POAG – . The human SIX gene family consists of six members  , all of which contain two shared protein domains; a DNA binding homeobox domain and a SIX domain , which binds downstream effector molecules  ,  . However , expression of SIX6 is restricted to regions of the retina and the pituitary  ,  . 3-q23 that includes SIX6 causes bilateral anophthalmia , the absence of both eyes , demonstrating the importance of SIX gene family members in ocular development and human disease  ,  , – . In this study , we have extended the current understanding of the molecular contributions of SIX6 to POAG risk . First , we identified potential POAG risk alleles by sequencing the SIX6 gene in a case-control dataset; we found both common and rare coding changes within SIX6 in POAG cases , as well as sequence variants in the SIX6 enhancer . We next used luciferase reporter assays , through which we show that a sequence variant found in the SIX6 enhancer of POAG patients may increase SIX6 expression . Finally , we demonstrate that POAG cases homozygous for the SIX6 risk allele rs33912345 have a significantly thinner retinal nerve fiber layer , suggesting a glaucomatous pathogenic mechanism driven by SIX6 dysfunction . Sequencing of the SIX1 and SIX6 genes in Caucasian POAG cases and controls  revealed 23 SNPs  . Nine SNPs were identified in SIX1 , but no nonsynonymous SNPs were present in the POAG cases . Sequencing of SIX6 yielded 14 variants including five rare nonsynonymous SNPs in POAG cases and controls , one common nonsynonymous SNP located in the homeobox of SIX6  , and five sequence variants within the SIX6 enhancer . Genotyping of rs33912345 in the Duke POAG case-control dataset  resulted in a significant association ( OR = 1 . 0005 , POAG case minor allele frequency  = 0 . 47 , POAG control MAF = 0 . 38 ) with POAG . Further examination of this locus showed that the association signal includes both upstream and downstream regions of the SIX6 transcript , while remaining entirely downstream of SIX1  . We next performed optical coherence tomography  to study the retinal characteristics of POAG cases possessing the SIX6 risk and non-risk variants  . OCT images were only available for POAG cases with the common SNP , rs33912345; no data were available for individuals with the rare SIX6 variants . The overall thickness  was reduced significantly in cases homozygous for the risk allele compared to cases with the non-risk allele ( p = 0 . 9  µm; Table 2 ) , consistent with the hypothesis that SIX6 may increase POAG susceptibility via changes in the neural retina . Given 1 ) the observed association signal pattern; 2 ) the lack of coding changes identified in SIX1; 3 ) the presence of rare missense variants and a common , associated missense SNP in SIX6; 4 ) retinal nerve fiber layer thickness changes observed in POAG cases homozygous for the SIX6 risk allele; and 5 ) the localized expression of SIX6 in ocular tissues , we concluded SIX6 is a likely candidate gene in this region . We therefore evaluated the functional relevance of SIX6 and the potential burden of common and rare alleles in this locus in POAG using an in vivo zebrafish complementation assay . First , we performed a reciprocal BLAST analysis; we identified two orthologs of SIX6 in the zebrafish genome , Six6a and Six6b , both with 91% homology at the protein level  . Previous overexpression and loss of function studies of Six6 in Mus musculus  and Xenopus laevis  models reveal a role in regulating the proliferative state of retinal progenitor cells and the size of the eye  , ; therefore , as a first test of whether the identified SIX6 variants are pathogenic and potentially relevant to POAG , we asked whether 1 ) morpholino-induced suppression of six6a or six6b leads to a reduced eye size; 2 ) expression of the human SIX6 non-risk allele rescues the morphant eye phenotype; and 3 ) expression of SIX6 alleles containing POAG risk variants rescues the morphant eye phenotype . Masked scoring of both six6a and six6b morphants revealed ocular phenotypes consistent with loss of function , including a reduction in eye size in more than 80% of embryos  . 5 pg of the human SIX6 non-risk allele mRNA; we observed significant  rescue in six6a but not six6b morphant embryos  . Together , these data indicate that Six6a is the functional ortholog of human SIX6 and prompted subsequent evaluation of SIX6 variants using the six6a MO . To investigate the pathogenic potential of all SIX6 variants , we used total eye size and the rescue of the morphant phenotype as the assay's phenotypic readout . We injected a mixture containing six6a MO and each of the human SIX6 alleles containing the coding variants identified via sequencing  . Subsequent to triplicate injections and masked scoring , these results were compared to the rescue condition of the human SIX6 non-risk allele . We found that five of the six variants tested were unable to fully rescue the small eye phenotype . 5 pg of the human SIX6 risk mRNA into non-morphant zebrafish provided no evidence of a toxic gain of function compared to injection with the non-risk allele  . Given the reduction of the RNFL in cases homozygous for the risk allele , we next asked whether six6a and the identified SIX6 variants impacted the optic nerve , an anatomical site directly relevant to human POAG , in zebrafish . This was specific for the optic nerve as the volume of other axonal tracts in the brain were unaffected by six6a depletion  . Specificity of the volumetric measurements was demonstrated upon full rescue of the six6a morphant phenotype by co-injection of the non-risk allele  or a variant that scored as a benign allele in the eye size assay  . We hypothesized that POAG risk may be mediated not only by deficits in SIX6 protein function , but also by the level of SIX6 gene expression . To test this , we sequenced the SIX6 retinal specific enhancer element in 262 POAG cases and 256 POAG controls; we identified five variants   , and tested their effect on expression using an in vitro luciferase assay . Activation of the SIX6 enhancer requires two cofactors , NeuroD and E47   . The SIX1/SIX6 locus has been shown to be associated significantly with POAG in several independent studies; however , the causal variant  driving this association have remained unknown  , – ,  , as has the direction of effect of these common alleles on protein function . We have demonstrated through several lines of evidence—the tissue specificity of the SIX gene family described in the literature; the identification of SIX6 missense variants in our POAG dataset; and the results of the in vivo and in vitro assays— that SIX6 is the most likely POAG susceptibility gene in this region . We identified both common and rare coding variants that alter the function of the SIX6 protein . We also identified a novel variant within the SIX6 enhancer that appears to disrupt the regulation of SIX6 expression , suggesting both regulatory and coding variants may influence POAG susceptibility at this locus . Finally , we identified hitherto unknown clinical features in POAG patients that may be dependent upon SIX6 genotype: patients homozygous for the SIX6 risk allele have a significantly thinner retinal nerve fiber layer than patients homozygous for the SIX6 non-risk allele . Interestingly , the ancestral allele  is associated with POAG risk . While rs33912345 is not associated with POAG risk in a West African POAG case/control dataset from Ghana , the frequency of the ancestral  allele is 99% in both cases and controls  . There is extensive evidence that SIX6 regulates early retinal progenitor cell proliferation during eye development  ,  ,  . This is consistent with functional studies of XOptx2 , the Xenopus ortholog of SIX6  . We have shown a reduction in eye size and in the volume of the optic nerve upon MO knockdown of zebrafish six6a , and we were able to rescue these phenotypes with co-injection of the human SIX6 non-risk allele , demonstrating that the zebrafish six6a gene is the likely functional ortholog to human SIX6 . We identified five alleles that could not rescue the small eye and optic nerve phenotypes , and we observed a reduction in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in POAG patients homozygous for the His141 SIX6 risk allele . Taken together with previously published findings , our results suggest that risk variants in human SIX6 increase POAG susceptibility by negatively affecting retinal ganglion cell development , likely leading to a reduction in the number of retinal ganglion cells in adulthood . In summary , we have identified multiple common and rare SIX6 sequence variants in POAG cases , and used in vivo and in vitro assays to demonstrate that these variants have functional consequences on SIX6 expression and protein function . While other risk factors may be required for the onset of POAG , our data suggest that attenuation of SIX6 protein function increases an individual's susceptibility to developing the disease via changes to retinal development . Additional work is needed , possibly through the use of transgenic animal model studies , to fully understand the role of SIX6 in POAG . The coding portions  of the SIX1 and SIX6 genes were sequenced in 518 Caucasian POAG cases and controls  using a polymerase chain-reaction  containing 1× Qiagen PCR buffer ( Tris·Cl , KCl ,  2SO4 , 15 mM MgCl2; pH 8 . The common missense single nucleotide polymorphism  , rs33912345 , was genotyped in the Duke POAG case-control dataset consisting of 482 POAG cases and 433 POAG controls using a TaqMan allelic discrimination assay according to the standard protocols from the manufacturer  . Therefore , the analysis was restricted to POAG cases homozygous for rs33912345 . Thirty patients had both OCT measurements and SIX6 genotype data . RNFL thickness , age at POAG diagnosis , and the age at OCT measurement were compared between individuals homozygous for the risk or non-risk allele using a Student's t-test . Translation blocker  morpholinos against six6a  and six6b  were purchased from Gene Tools , LLC . SIX6 enhancer alleles were tested using the dual-luciferase reporter assay system  . , co-transfection with NeuroD and E47 is required for SIX6 enhancer activation  . 
Flagellar gene expression also indirectly impacts production of the glucosylating toxins , which are essential to diarrheal disease development . Thus , factors that regulate the expression of the flgB operon will likely impact toxin production in addition to flagellar motility . Here , we report the identification a “flagellar switch” that controls the phase variable production of flagella and glucosylating toxins . The flagellar switch , located upstream of the flgB operon containing the early stage flagellar genes , is a 154 bp invertible sequence flanked by 21 bp inverted repeats . Bacteria with the sequence in one orientation expressed flagellum and toxin genes , produced flagella , and secreted the toxins  . Bacteria with the sequence in the inverse orientation were attenuated for flagellar and toxin gene expression , were aflagellate , and showed decreased toxin secretion  . The orientation of the flagellar switch is reversible during growth in vitro . We provide evidence that gene regulation via the flagellar switch occurs post-transcription initiation and requires a C . difficile-specific regulatory factor to destabilize or degrade the early flagellar gene mRNA when the flagellar switch is in the OFF orientation . Lastly , through mutagenesis and characterization of flagellar phase locked isolates , we determined that the tyrosine recombinase RecV , which catalyzes inversion at the cwpV switch , is also responsible for inversion at the flagellar switch in both directions . Phase variable flagellar motility and toxin production suggests that these important virulence factors have both advantageous and detrimental effects during the course of infection . The flagellar apparatus confers motility and contributes to adherence , colonization , and disease in C . difficile  . difficile strains  . The early stage flagellar operon contains genes for assembly of the basal body . SigD  , the flagellar alternative sigma factor , is encoded in the early stage flagellar operon and activates the transcription of the late stage operons  . At least four operons contain late stage flagellar genes involved in assembly of the flagellar hook , filament , and cap , and for post-translational modification of the flagellar filament  . Flagellar arrangement is peritrichous in most strains  . The flagellar apparatus contributes to C . difficile strain R20291  , flagellar filaments promote adherence and colonization in vitro and during infection of mice  . Flagellar motility is not required for adherence in this strain , as a MotB mutant that produces flagellar filaments with a nonfunctional motor displays wild type adherence  . difficile 630Δerm strains with a mutation in several early stage flagellar genes showed reduced virulence , whereas C . difficile with mutations in the late stage flagellar genes fliC and fliD generally showed increased virulence  . difficile spores in hamsters than in mice  . Notably , the expression of the glucosylating toxin genes is linked to flagellar gene expression in C . difficile  . difficile , potentially via regulation of flagellar gene expression . Spo0A , SigH , and RstA inhibit expression of the flagellar and toxin genes  , while Agr quorum sensing and Hfq are positive regulators  . The exact mechanisms by which these regulators control flagellar and toxin gene expression are largely unknown . Specifically , elevated c-di-GMP inhibits flagellar gene expression and swimming motility  , and also negatively regulates toxin gene expression as a result of reduced sigD transcription  . Flagellar gene regulation occurs via a c-di-GMP sensing riboswitch , Cd1 , located in the 5’ untranslated region of the early stage flagellar operon  . Here , we describe the identification and characterization of an additional cis-acting regulatory element that mediates phase variable expression of flagellar genes and , consequently , the toxin genes . We identified a flagellar switch consisting of 154 bp flanked by 21 bp imperfect inverted repeats , between the Cd1 riboswitch and the first open reading frame in the early stage flagellar operon . The orientation of the flagellar switch controls downstream flagellar gene expression , including sigD , and therefore production of flagella and swimming motility . Furthermore , the flagellar switch affects transcription of the toxin genes by way of σD , impacting the production of the glucosylating toxins and the cytotoxicity of C . difficile . We provide evidence that regulation through the flagellar switch occurs post-transcription initiation . Lastly , we identified RecV , which also controls phase variation of the cell wall protein CwpV , as the recombinase responsible for inversion at the flagellar switch in both directions . Together these findings indicate that flagellar motility and the production of toxins are subject to phase variation in C . Flagellar and toxin phase variation in C . , identified a single transcriptional start site  for the early flagellar operon in C . Binding of c-di-GMP to Cd1 causes premature transcription termination , preventing flagellar gene transcription and inhibiting swimming motility  . Based on these in silico findings , we hypothesized that the 154 bp sequence undergoes inversion via site-specific recombination , and we term this the “flagellar switch” herein . If the 154 bp sequence is capable of undergoing DNA inversion , we expect to detect the flagellar switch in both of the orientations in C . difficile , at least under some growth conditions . To test this , we used an orientation-specific PCR assay to detect and differentiate between the two orientations of the putative flagellar switch in multiple C . difficile strains grown in liquid medium   . We use “published orientation” to refer to the sequence present in the indicated published genome for the given strain , and “inverse orientation” to refer to a sequence with an inversion between the inverted repeats . To detect the flagellar switch in the published orientation , we used a ribotype-specific forward primer F1 that anneals immediately 3’ of the left inverted repeat   . To detect the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation , we used a forward primer F2 that anneals immediately 5’ of the right inverted repeat   . We detected PCR products for both the published and inverse orientations for R20291  and ATCC 43598   . DNA sequencing of the PCR products confirmed the orientation of the template sequences . We were unable to detect a PCR product for the inverse orientation for 630Δerm  , a commonly used laboratory-adapted strain . difficile strains grow in broth culture as a heterogeneous population of bacteria with the flagellar switch in the published or inverse orientation , supporting our hypothesis that the flagellar switch undergoes site-specific recombination . difficile genomes  , we designate the flagellar switch site as Cdi4 . We optimized an unbiased asymmetric PCR-digestion assay to distinguish the orientation of the switch and determine the relative proportions of each in the population   . One pair of primers that flank the flagellar switch amplify a region encompassing the 5’ UTR of the flgB operon , yielding a 665 bp product that was subjected to digestion with the restriction enzyme SwaI . The presence of a single SwaI restriction site in the 154 bp flagellar switch resulted in two fragments of different sizes depending on the orientation of the sequence  . If the flagellar switch is in the published orientation , we expect fragments of 312 and 353 bp; if the switch is in the inverse orientation , we expect fragments of 418 and 247 bp . difficile R20291 , which contain a mix of bacteria with respect to flagellar switch orientation  , were plated on BHIS agar supplemented with the germinant taurocholate . Over time , the abundance of the SwaI digested products indicating the inverse orientation increased  . The proportions of bacteria with the switch in the two orientations were quantified by measuring the pixel intensities of the bands , normalized to a standard curve generated with titrated amounts of SwaI-digested DNA template for the published and inverse orientations  . The proportion of the bacteria with the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation significantly increased after 48 hours  , 72 hours  , and 96 hours  compared to 24 hours   . difficile with the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation . Single colonies derived from this growth  were subjected to the asymmetric PCR-digestion assay to determine the orientation of the flagellar switch . Individual colonies were enriched for one orientation of the flagellar switch . All colonies tested yielded either 312 and 353 bp fragments indicating the switch in the published orientation  or 418 and 247 bp fragments indicating the switch in the inverse orientation  . Thus , we used quantitative PCR  of genomic DNA to quantify the frequency of bacteria with the flagellar switch in each orientation . In isolated colonies that showed fragments indicating the switch is in the published orientation by asymmetric PCR-digestion  , 89 . 5%  of the population had the switch in that orientation by qPCR  . Similarly , in colonies with the switch predominantly in the inverse orientation by asymmetric PCR-digestion  , 96 . 3%  of the population has the switch in that orientation by qPCR  . These data indicate that asymmetric PCR-digestion successfully identifies colonies that are enriched for the flagellar switch in a single orientation . Furthermore , the orientation of the flagellar switch remains stable during growth on an agar surface for at least 24 hours and switch orientation did not affect growth  . Colony morphology was not attributable to the orientation of the flagellar switch , as 72% of bacteria in the SC colonies had the flagellar switch in the published orientation , and 64% of bacteria in the RF colonies had the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation  . The enrichment of two populations based on the orientation of the flagellar switch allowed us to determine the impact of switch orientation on downstream gene expression . We purified colonies with the flagellar switch in the published and inverse orientations  to assess gene expression . The abundances of early and late stage flagellar gene transcripts in the isolates were compared by quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR  . Bacteria with the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation exhibited significantly reduced abundance of early stage flagellar gene transcripts , such as flgB and sigD/fliA , compared to bacteria with the flagellar switch in the published orientation   . Accordingly , the abundances of the σD-dependent , late stage flagellar gene transcripts CDR20291_0227  , flgM  , and fliC   were also significantly decreased in bacteria with the flagellar switch in the inverse orientation . Consistent with this , transmission electron microscopy showed that the majority of bacteria from colonies with the flagellar switch in the published orientation displayed flagella  , whereas bacteria from colonies with the switch in the inverse orientation were largely non-flagellated   . difficile  , to the flgM promoter . As σD is encoded in the flgB operon , it is indirectly phase variable and serves as an indicator of the status of the flagellar switch . difficile R20291 isolates with the switch in the published or inverse orientation . In the isolate with the switch in the published orientation , the majority of bacteria were mCherryOpt positive: 76 . In the isolate with the switch in the inverse orientation , few bacteria were mCherryOpt positive: 2 . These values are consistent with those obtained using qPCR to directly evaluate the switch orientation in these populations  . Differences in the frequency of the switch orientation in enriched flg ON populations could be due to additional flagellar gene regulators that function independently of the flg switch , such as c-di-GMP  . The sigD mutant containing the PflgM::mCherryOpt reporter lacked mCherryOpt fluorescence , indicating that flgM promoter activity is dependent on σD , and therefore on the flagellar switch  . Taken together , these data indicate that the orientation of the flagellar switch controls flagellar gene expression and are consistent with phase variable gene expression . Thus , bacteria with the flagellar switch in the published orientation express flagellar genes and produce flagella and are thus flagellar phase ON  ; bacteria with the switch in the inverse orientation show decreased flagellar gene expression and flagellum biosynthesis and are comparatively flagellar phase OFF  . Given that flg OFF bacteria were deficient in flagellum biosynthesis  , we predicted that flg OFF bacteria would be non-motile compared to motile flg ON bacteria . To test this , for flg ON and OFF isolates cultured in motility agar , we sampled bacteria from the inoculation site  and from the leading edge at 24 , 48 , and 72 hours and determined the orientation of the switch using the asymmetric PCR-digestion assay . As expected , flg ON maintained the flagellar switch in the ON orientation at all time points at both the center and edge  . In contrast , flg OFF bacteria from the center contained the switch primarily in the OFF configuration , but bacteria at the leading edge had the switch to the ON orientation by 24 hours  . The flg ON orientation was subsequently preserved along the leading edge at 48 and 72 hours  . The flagellar alternative sigma factor , σD , controls transcription of genes within the Pathogenicity Locus  in addition to late stage flagellar genes in C . difficile  . Therefore , we predicted that the flagellar switch , which impacts the expression of sigD  , also indirectly controls the expression of the toxin genes tcdA and tcdB by activating the expression of the toxin sigma factor gene tcdR . The abundances of the tcdR , tcdA and tcdB transcripts were significantly reduced in flg OFF bacteria compared to flg ON  . Consistent with these results , TcdA protein level was also decreased in cell lysates of flg OFF bacteria compared to lysates of flg ON bacteria  . To determine the effect of the flagellar switch on C . Flg ON isolates were significantly more cytotoxic compared to flg OFF isolates and a sigD control  . Taken together , these data demonstrate that the flagellar switch orientation controls toxin production in addition to flagellum biosynthesis and swimming motility , indicating that these major virulence factors are coordinately phase variable in C . difficile . coli the orientation of the fimS switch , which contains a promoter , controls type I fimbrial gene expression  . difficile , the genetic switch that regulates expression of cwpV operates after transcription initiation  . To begin to define the mechanism by which the flagellar switch controls gene expression , we generated a series of alkaline phosphatase  transcriptional reporters   . First , the phoZ reporter gene was placed downstream of flgB  , under the control of the native flgB promoter and the full 498 bp 5’ UTR with the flagellar switch  in either the phase ON or OFF orientation ( PflgB-5’UTR  -flgB::phoZ , Fig 7A , #3 & 4 ) . To determine if the flagellar switch contains a promoter , a truncated 307 bp 5’ UTR retaining the flagellar switch  but lacking the Cd1 riboswitch and native flgB promoter was placed upstream of flgB::phoZ  . In parallel with every AP assay , an asymmetric PCR-digestion assay was performed to ensure that the flagellar switches were in the expected orientation for both the native locus and the reporter fusion  . Similar results were obtained using the same six reporter fusions integrated onto the chromosome of a R20291 with the native flagellar switch in the OFF orientation , although AP activity was lower overall  . These results suggest that the flagellar switch does not contain a promoter to initiate transcription independently of the flgB promoter . difficile-specific factors will be absent , but features inherent to the flagellar switch will be preserved . subtilis BS49 chromosome , and the orientation of the flagellar switch was monitored by orientation-specific PCR  . difficile , B . subtilis with the FSON/OFF-flgB::phoZ fusions produced negligible AP activity , indicating the absence of a promoter in the flagellar switch  . Thus , reduced gene expression as a result of the flagellar switch in the OFF orientation is specific to C . difficile . Therefore , we used northern blot analysis to determine if transcription terminates prematurely or if the transcript is destabilized when the flagellar switch is in the OFF orientation . difficile flg ON and OFF and in B . subtilis with northern blot analysis suggest that regulation via the flagellar switch occurs post-transcription initiation and involves an unidentified trans-acting element that destabilizes the mRNA to reduce gene expression in flg OFF bacteria . coli , two recombinases catalyze inversion at the fimbrial switch; FimB can catalyze both orientations , whereas FimE is restricted to ON to OFF inversion events  . A conserved tyrosine recombinase called RecV catalyzes strand exchange in both orientations at the cwpV switch in C . difficile  . We postulated that the recombinase  which catalyze inversion at the flg switch would be present in all published C . difficile genomes with intact flagellum biosynthesis genes . We identified eight conserved serine or tyrosine recombinases , including RecV  , and used a two-plasmid system in a heterologous bacterium to identify the flagellar switch recombinase   . coli , induced with ATc , and orientation-specific PCR was used on purified plasmids to determine if inversion occurred . We found that RecV was sufficient to catalyze recombination of the flagellar switch from the ON to OFF  and OFF to ON  orientations in E . These data indicate that the RecV recombinase is sufficient to catalyze inversion in both orientations at both the flagellar and cwpV switches in a heterologous organism . These data do not rule out the possibility of an additional recombinase that requires a trans-acting element , such as a recombination directionality factor  , to catalyze inversion at the flagellar switch . To determine whether RecV is involved in inversion of the flagellar switch in C . difficile , we first overexpressed recV in the backgrounds of R20291 flg ON and OFF using the anhydrotetracycline  -inducible expression vector to determine whether RecV would promote inversion to the opposite orientation  . difficile R20291 recV mutants were previously shown to be phase-locked for CwpV production  . The identification of RecV as the recombinase mediating flagellar switch inversion suggests that mutation of recV would similarly result in phase-locked phenotypes with respect to flagellum and toxin production . To evaluate the requirement of RecV for flagellar phase variation in C . difficile , we obtained two C . difficile R20291 mutants with ClosTron insertions in recV  . One mutant contains the cwpV switch locked in the ON orientation , and the other , the OFF orientation  . Both mutants contain the flagellar switch in the OFF orientation  , as determined using orientation-specific PCR  . To obtain a recV mutant in which the flagellar switch is locked in the ON orientation , recV was expressed from a plasmid to allow inversion of the flagellar switch  . Thiamphenicol-sensitive clones were screened for flagellar switch orientation to identify recV mutants that are flg ON   . The recV flg ON* and OFF* mutants , each bearing vector or recV under the control of the Ptet ATc-inducible promoter , were assayed for swimming motility in BHIS-0 . Unlike the enriched flg OFF isolate that appeared motile due to a small frequency of flg ON bacteria , the recV flg OFF* mutant was non-motile at 24 hours incubation  . This phase-locked phenotype was dependent on RecV , as complementation with recV in trans restored motility . In contrast , the recV flg ON* mutant showed motility , and providing recV in trans had no measurable effect in this assay . We note that extended incubation  of the recV flg OFF* mutant results in motile progeny  . These motile bacteria retain the flagellar switch in the OFF orientation based on orientation-specific PCR and DNA sequencing results  , so the motile phenotype is due to suppressor mutations . We next evaluated toxin production by the recV flg ON* and OFF* mutants by measuring TcdA production by western blot . As shown above , the enriched flg OFF isolate produced less TcdA than the enriched flg ON isolate  . TcdA levels were greater in the recV flg ON* mutant compared to the enriched flg ON isolate . 2% of bacteria with the flagellar switch in the OFF orientation remaining in the enriched flg ON isolate based on qPCR and fluorescence microscopy estimates , respectively  . TcdA abundance in the recV flg OFF* mutant was comparable to that in the sigD mutant , which was below the limit of detection . Provision of recV in trans in either the recV flg ON* or OFF* mutant , which results in heterogeneity in the orientation of the flagellar switch  , resulted in intermediate TcdA levels  . difficile . difficile infection . Here , we report an additional cis-acting regulatory element , a “flagellar switch , ” present upstream of the early stage flagellar operon . The flagellar switch is the fourth identified C . difficile inversion site  and consists of a 154 bp sequence flanked by 21 bp imperfect inverted repeats  . The flagellar switch is functional , undergoing site-specific recombination in at least two different C . difficile ribotypes , 027 and 017 . The flagellar switch inverted repeats are conserved in all sequenced C . The flagellar switch appears locked ON in C . difficile 630 , which may be due to the shortened inverted repeats . difficile  . difficile , although not yet demonstrated to be functional switches , are under active investigation . Unlike the cwpV switch that controls the expression of a single structural gene , the flagellar switch controls the expression of both structural and regulatory genes , including sigD . Flagellar phase ON bacteria , as well as a recV mutant with the flagellar switch locked in the ON orientation , display peritrichous flagella , engage in swimming motility , and produce the glucosylating toxins . Flagellar phase OFF bacteria and recV mutants with the flagellar switch locked in the OFF orientation are attenuated for transcription of flagellar genes , and therefore grow as aflagellate , non-motile bacteria also attenuated for toxin production . Thus , the flagellar switch coordinately controls the production of a colonization factor and essential virulence determinants by impacting sigD expression . Moreover , the flagellar switch orientation is expected to affect additional genes in the σD regulon , such as metabolic pathways , multiple cell wall proteins , metabolic transporters for amino acids and divalent cations , and several transcriptional regulators  . Classically , genetic switches that toggle between two orientations and facilitate phase variable expression of downstream genes contain a promoter to alter transcription initiation  . Transcriptional reporter data excluded the presence of a promoter within the flagellar switch , indicating that the switch controls downstream gene expression after transcription initiation from the flgB operon promoter has occurred . This arrangement of regulatory elements suggests that flagellar phase variation is only relevant when c-di-GMP levels are sufficiently low to permit transcriptional read-through beyond the riboswitch and into the flagellar switch . Regulation post-transcription initiation by genetic switches has been described previously . The cwpV switch in C . When the switch is in the cwpV phase OFF orientation , the mRNA adopts a structure containing a Rho-independent terminator resulting in premature transcription termination  . If the flagellar switch in C . subtilis when the flagellar switch was in the OFF orientation . difficile . difficile; it is possible that a regulatory factor in B . Collectively , our results suggest that the early stage flagellar operon mRNA is destabilized or degraded when the flagellar switch DNA is in the OFF orientation . Thus , the flagellar switch in C . difficile represents a novel system that requires an unknown additional regulatory factor to function as an ON/OFF switch . SwrA controls transcription of the flagellar and chemotaxis  operon by regulating the activity of the transcriptional regulator DegU  . These and other data present a model in which flagellar gene expression in B . difficile flagellar gene expression meets the criteria of bistability  , inversion of the C . difficile flagellar switch similarly results in phenotypic heterogeneity that would confer an advantage in an environment that selects for one phenotype over the other  . We identified RecV as necessary and sufficient for inversion of the flagellar switch in both orientations , by over-expression of recV in C . difficile and in E . coli bearing the flagellar switch sequence , and by mutation of recV in C . difficile R20291 . Notably , RecV was previously reported to control inversion of the cwpV switch in C . difficile  . The use of a single recombinase to control inversion of multiple genetic switches has been described previously . In contrast , the inverted repeats and the flanking half sites for the cwpV and flagellar switches lack recognizable sequence identity , although the identification of additional RecV-controlled genetic switches might reveal a core consensus sequence . Regulation of recV transcription and/or RecV activity could therefore differentially affect inversion of the cwpV and flagellar switches . coli due to over-expression of recV . difficile is supported by the observation that C . difficile R20291 carrying the prophage ϕCD38-2 has the cwpV switch biased to the ON orientation; recV transcription is unaltered  . Prophage infection of a recV mutant with the cwpV switch in the OFF orientation remains locked , suggesting that the phage does not encode a recombinase to promote inversion , but that instead a phage gene product modulates RecV activity  . difficile may produce another factor that similarly influences recombination within the flagellar  switch . Future studies will explore how RecV can control multiple genetic switches with divergent inverted repeat sequences . difficile fitness in the host intestinal environment . difficile virulence . difficile broth cultures were grown statically . difficile strains 630Δerm , R20291 , and ATCC 43598 were plated on BHIS supplemented with 0 . The ribotype 017 strain ATCC 43598 has not been sequenced , so we used M68  as a representative ribotype 017 strain to design primers for the flagellar switch . All reactions used R857 as the reverse primer given the sequence identity between strains for the first gene in the early flagellar operon , flgB . To amplify the flagellar switch , chromosomal DNA purified from C . The PCR products  were digested with SwaI  , which results in different products depending on the orientation of the flagellar switch: 312 bp and 353 bp for the published orientation , and 418 bp and 247 bp for the inverse orientation  . A mixture of bacteria with the flagellar switch in the published and inverse orientation results in four bands at varying intensities . We used ImageJ to perform a densitometry analysis of the digested bands to determine the relative proportions of bacteria with flagellar switch in the published/ON  and inverse/OFF  orientations . To evaluate the effect of surface growth on the flagellar switch , C . Once chromosomal DNA was collected , the orientation of the flagellar switch was determined using the asymmetric PCR-digestion assay . Values for bands corresponding to the published/ON and inverse/OFF orientations were compared to a standard curve . difficile R20291 spores were plated on BHIS+TA . Single colonies were derived from this growth  by passaging onto BHIS plates and individually screened for the flagellar switch orientation by the asymmetric PCR digestion assay . A higher frequency of colonies with the flagellar switch in the OFF orientation was observed at later time points  . Primers for detection of the ON orientation  had a PCR efficiency of 88 . 5% for the recV flg ON* DNA , and the primers for detection of the OFF orientation  had a PCR efficiency of 84 . 5% for the recV flg OFF* DNA . To determine the frequency of the flg ON and OFF orientations in populations of enriched C . difficile R20291 flg ON and OFF isolates , three biological replicates of each were grown in BHIS medium to an OD600 of ~1 . difficile flg ON and OFF variants were grown overnight in BHIS medium , 1:50 in 3mL of BHIS medium and grown to stationary phase  . difficile R20291 , flg ON and OFF isolates , and recV mutants were assayed for flagellar motility as previously described  . Two microliters of flg ON , flg OFF , and sigD were inoculated into the agar , then incubated at 37°C . difficile phoZ reporter strains were grown in 4mL of BHIS medium to OD600 1 . difficile was grown as patches on BHIS agar for 24 hours . difficile R20291 flg ON and OFF isolates , and a sigD mutant control , were grown on BHIS plates for 16–24 hours . Anhydrotetracycline  was added to a biological replicate for each flagellar switch/recombinase pair at a final concentration of 200 ng/mL , grown until OD600 1 . Purified plasmids were used as template in an orientation-specific PCR assay to identify the recombinase that catalyzes inversion from ON to OFF and OFF to ON . 
In the model organism Bacillus subtilis , gene expression in the forespore and in the mother cell , the two cells that participate in endospore development , is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits . σF in the forespore , and σE in the mother cell control early stages of development and are replaced , at later stages , by σG and σK , respectively . Starting with σF , the activation of the sigma factors is sequential , requires the preceding factor , and involves cell-cell signaling pathways that operate at key morphological stages . The morphological characterization of mutants for the sporulation sigma factors , in parallel with use of a fluorescence reporter for single cell analysis of gene expression , unraveled important deviations from the B . subtilis paradigm . We also show that σK is not strictly required for heat resistant spore formation . Also , it is a protein present at the spore surface that mediates spore internalization by macrophages , and spore dissemination to local lymph nodes , which are central to pathogenesis  ,  . Ingested spores of this organism germinate in the colon , to establish a population of vegetative cells that will produce two potent cytotoxins and more spores  , – . The basic spore plan is conserved – . This layer of PG , known as the germ cell wall , will serve as the wall of the outgrowing cell that forms when the spore completes germination . subtilis   . Polar division yields a larger mother cell and a smaller forespore , the future spore . The mother cell then engulfs the forespore . This process , akin to phagocytosis and a hallmark of endosporulation , isolates the forespore from the surrounding medium , and releases it as a cell , surrounded by a double membrane , within the mother cell cytoplasm  ,  . With the exception of the germ cell wall , which is formed from the forespore , the assembly of the main spore protective structures is mostly a function of the mother cell  ,  . At the end of the process , and following a period of spore maturation , the mother cell undergoes autolysis , to release the finished spore . Gene expression in the forespore and mother cell is controlled by 4 cell type-specific sigma factors , which are sequentially activated , alternating between the two cells . σF and σE control the early stages of development in the forespore and the mother cell , respectively , and are replaced by σG and σK when engulfment of the forespore is completed – . Activation of the sporulation sigma factors coincides with the completion of key morphological intermediates in the process , at which stages cell-cell signaling events further allow the alignment of the forespore and mother cell programs of gene expression . The result is the coordinated deployment of the forespore and mother cell lines of gene expression , in close register with the course of cellular morphogenesis – . subtilis , distributed in the four cell type-specific regulons , participate in spore morphogenesis – . subtilis controls late stages of morphogenesis in the mother cell , is active in pre-divisional cells of C . difficile and the function of the cell type-specific sigma factors . In addition , by using a fluorescent reporter for studies of gene expression at the single cell level , we were able to correlate the expression and activity of the sporulation-specific sigma factors with the course of morphogenesis . difficile sporulation the forespore and mother cell programs of gene expression are less tightly coupled . Here , we examined sporulation of C . We determined the spore titer during growth of the wild type strain 630Δerm in liquid SM cultures . As shown in Figure 1A , no heat resistant spores could be detected at the time of inoculation , or during the first 10 hours of growth . Heat resistant spores , 3 . 7×102 spores/ml , were first detected at hour 12 , a titer that increased to 2 . From hour 24 onwards , the spore titer increased slowly , to reach 4 . 7×106 spores/ml 72 hours following inoculation , corresponding to 43 . 8% sporulation  . For our studies of spore morphogenesis and cell type-specific gene expression , SM was adopted . Cells with straight asymmetrically positioned septa  and cells with curved spore membranes  , both showing intense staining of the forespore DNA , were readily seen  . Intense , uniform staining of the forespore by FM4-64 was maintained in cells carrying phase grey  or phase bright spores , defining class d  . DAPI staining of the forespore DNA was variable for both cells with phase grey or phase bright spores in this class  . subtilis   ,  ,  . Staining of the developing spore by FM4-64 following engulfment completion contrasts with the situation in B . However , in other organisms , FM4-64 stains the engulfed forespore   . Also , FM4-64 does not stain free spores of B . subtilis  or B . difficile spores   . We note that affinity of FM dyes to the spore coats has been reported   . This suggests that sporulation is heterogeneous , or asynchronous , in agreement with other results  , with cells entering the sporulation pathway throughout the duration of the experiment . However , Live/Dead staining evidenced cell lysis , including of cells at intermediate stages of sporulation  , from hour 36 of growth onwards  . At hour 24 , the total number of sporulating cells  represents about 15% of the total cell population . The genes for the four cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma factors known to control gene expression during spore differentiation in B . subtilis are conserved in sporeformers – . For the wild type strain 630Δerm , the titer of spores was of 3×105 spores/ml at hour 24 , 2×106 spores/ml at hour 48 , and of 1×107 spores/ml at hour 72  . In contrast , no heat resistant spores were found , at any time point tested , for the sigF  , sigE  , or sigG  mutants . However , a titer of 103 heat resistant spores/ml of culture was found for the sigK mutant AHCD535 at hour 72  . When measured at hour 72 of growth in SM , the heat resistant spore titer was of 1 . Derivatives of pMTL84121 carrying the sigF , sigE , sigG or sigK genes  restored spore formation to the sig mutants , as assessed by microscopy  . The same plasmids largely restored heat resistant spore formation to the sig mutants  . These studies revealed that the sigF and sigE mutants were blocked at the asymmetric division stage  . In addition , for the sigF mutant , small round cells were found , probably resulting from detachment of the forespore  . In both mutants , the DNA stained strongly in the forespore  and gave a diffuse signal throughout the mother cell  . Cells of the sigG mutant completed the engulfment sequence , but did not proceed further in morphogenesis  . TEM of sporulating cells of the sigG mutant confirmed engulfment completion , but also revealed deposition of electrodense material around the forespore protoplast  . subtilis sigG mutant  . In this organism , coat assembly as discernible by TEM , is a late event that requires activation of σK in the mother cell  ,  ,  . difficile sigG mutant . difficile  , and used it to construct C-terminal fusions of the SNAP-tag to spore coat proteins CotE and CotB  ,  in plasmid pFT58  . The fusions were introduced , in a replicative plasmid , in strain 630Δerm and the sigG and sigK mutants , and samples from SM cultures at hour 24 were labeled with the cell-permeable fluorescent substrate TMR-Star  . Using fluorescence microscopy and fluorimaging of SDS-PAGE-resolved whole cell extracts , no accumulation of CotE-SNAP was detected in cells of a sigK mutant , suggesting that the cotE gene is under the control of σK  . CotB-SNAP , however , accumulated in cells of a sigK mutant  , but not in cells of a sigE mutant  , suggesting that expression of cotB is under the control of σE . Both CotE-SNAP and CotB-SNAP localized around the forespore in both wild type and in sigG cells  . Thus , both early  and late  coat proteins are assembled around the forespore in cells of a sigG mutant . difficile . Phase contrast microscopy revealed the presence of some phase bright or partially phase bright spores in SM cultures of the sigK mutant , although free spores were only rarely seen  . The ellipsoidal spores were often positioned slightly tilted relative to the longitudinal axis of the mother cell  . The appearance of phase bright spores normally correlates with synthesis of the spore cortex PG , and the development of spore heat resistance  ,  , in line with the finding that the sigK mutant formed heat resistant spores  . 2% of the total number of cells scored at hour 24 of growth in liquid SM  . This is higher than the percentage of sporulation , 0 . However , we cannot discard the possibility that spores of the mutant are deficient in germination . subtilis , where a sigK mutant is unable to form the spore cortex  ,  , σK is not obligatory for the biogenesis of this structure in C . difficile . In contrast , the TEM analysis did not reveal deposition of coat material around the cortex in cells of the sigK mutant  . That free spores were only rarely seen for the sigK mutant , prompted us to test whether σK could have a role in mother cell lysis , using a Live/Dead stain and fluorescence microscopy . In the wild type strain 630Δerm , development of refractility coincided with loss of viability of the mother cell  and strong staining of the developing spore with the Syto 9 dye  ,  . In contrast , the mother cell remained viable in the sigK mutant   , and the spores stained only weakly with the Syto 9 dye . While wild type levels of sporulation could be restored to a sigK mutant by a copy of the sigK gene bearing a deletion of all the genes within the skinCd element but the recombinase gene  , an uninterrupted copy of the gene , in plasmid pFT42 , did not restore sporulation  . difficile . The promoter regions of sigF , sigE , sigG , and sigK genes were cloned in the SNAPCd-containing promoter probe vector pFT47  . difficile sporulation , samples of cultures expressing each of the promoter fusions were collected at 24 h of growth in SM medium , and the cells doubly labeled with TMR-Star and the membrane dye MTG , to allow identification of the different stages of sporulation . Expression of the various Psig-SNAPCd transcriptional fusions could thus be correlated to the stage in spore morphogenesis . Expression of both sigF and sigE was first detected in pre-divisional cells of the wild type strain 630Δerm , but not in cells of a spo0A mutant  , consistent with previous reports –  . Both genes continued to be expressed following asymmetric division , in the forespore and the mother cell of both the wild type , and the sigF or sigE mutants  . Quantification of the fluorescence signal shows that while for sigF the average intensity did not differ much between forespores  , and mother cells  , it increased in both the forespore and the mother cell relative to pre-divisional cells   . Transcription of sigE , in turn , was lower in the forespore  as compared to pre-divisional cells  or the mother cell    . Thus , transcription of sigE , seems to occur preferentially in the mother cell . Transcription of both sigF and sigE persisted in both the forespore and the mother cell until a late stage of sporulation , when the forespore becomes phase bright  . In contrast to sigF and sigE , transcription of sigG and sigK was confined to the forespore and to the mother cell , respectively  . Transcription of sigG is detected in the forespore just after asymmetric division , consistent with the presence of a σF-type promoter in its regulatory region  . In agreement with this inference , expression of PsigG-SNAPCd was not detected in cells of a sigF mutant  . Transcription of sigG was detected until the development of spore refractility  . subtilis , σF initiates transcription of sigG in the forespore  ,  . In contrast , forespore-specific expression of PsigG-SNAPCd was detected in most cells  of a sigE mutant  . subtilis , the main period of sigG transcription takes place following engulfment completion , and relies on a positive auto-regulatory loop  . We detected transcription of sigG both prior and following engulfment completion in a sigG mutant  . However , the quantitative analysis of the SNAP-TMR signal shows an increase in the average fluorescence intensity following engulfment completion    . difficile , transcription of sigK was confined to the mother cell and detected soon after asymmetric division  . Moreover , disruption of sigE resulted in undetected expression of PsigK-SNAPCd  . Interestingly , transcription of the sigK gene was also detected in a small percentage  of the sporulating cells of a sigF mutant  . subtilis , activation of σE in the mother cell is dependent on σF  ,  . Transcription of sigK was also detected following engulfment completion , in cells carrying phase grey and phase bright spores  . The average intensity of the fluorescence signal from PsigK-SNAPCd in cells prior  and after engulfment completion  was very close . However , expression was significantly increased for those cells that carried phase bright spores   . This suggests that the onset of the main period of sigK transcription coincides with the final stages in spore morphogenesis . difficile , we used transcriptional SNAPCd fusions to promoters under the control of each cell type-specific sigma factor . subtilis   . subtilis codes for a spore-specific protease required for degradation of the DNA-protecting small acid-soluble spore proteins  during spore germination  . subtilis , the C . Secondly , expression of a Pgpr-SNAPCd fusion , monitored by fluorescence microscopy , was confined to the forespore and detected soon after asymmetric division in 66% of the cells that were at this stage of sporulation  . Lastly , expression was eliminated by disruption of the sigF gene but detected in 99% of the cells of the sigG mutant   . Forespore-specific expression of Pgpr-SNAPCd was also detected following engulfment completion  . Therefore , in spite of expression of the sigF gene in both the forespore and the mother cell , σF is active exclusively in the forespore . A quantitative analysis of the fluorescence signal from Pgpr-SNAPCd showed no significant difference between cells before  or after engulfment completion   . difficile spoIIIAA gene   . If so , then expression of a PspoIIIAA-SNAPCd fusion should be confined to the mother cell , dependent on sigE , but partially independent on sigF . PspoIIIAA-SNAPCd-driven SNAP production was indeed confined to the mother cell , detected just after asymmetric division in 89% of the cells scored at this stage of sporulation , eliminated by mutation of sigE , but still detected  in 21% of sigF cells  . PspoIIIAA-SNAPCd expression persisted until late stages in development , and was still detected for cells in which phase bright spores were seen  . subtilis codes for a small acid-soluble spore protein  that , together with other SASP family members , binds to and protects the spore DNA  . difficile orthologue   . Consistent with σG control of sspA in C difficile , PsspA-driven SNAP production was confined to the forespore and eliminated by disruption of sigF or of sigG   . sspA expression was detected in 50% of the cells that had just completed asymmetric division , but also throughout the engulfment sequence  , following engulfment completion  , and in cells  carrying phase bright spores  . Our analysis of sigG transcription suggested that it increased following engulfment completion , with a stronger auto-regulatory component than in pre-engulfed cells  . subtilis , continued transcription in the forespore when  it becomes isolated from the surrounding medium , requires the activity of σE – . To determine whether the activity of σG increased following engulfment completion in a manner that required σE , we quantified the SNAP-TMR signal in cells expressing PsspA-SNAPCd . 5 before engulfment completion  to 2 . 1±04 , following engulfment completion    . This result is consistent with the analysis of sigG transcription  and indicates that the activity of σG increases following engulfment completion . Importantly , even though sspA expression was found for 61% of the sigE mutant cells , disruption of sigE reduced the average fluorescence signal in the forespore  to the level seen before engulfment completion for the wild type  . We conclude that disruption of sigE does not prevent activity of σG prior to engulfment completion . Finally , to monitor the activity of σK , we examined expression of the cotE gene , coding for an abundant spore coat protein in C . difficile  . qRT-PCR experiments show that disruption of the sigE and sigK genes caused a much stronger reduction in the expression of cotE than mutations in sigF or sigG  . Fluorescence microscopy reveals that expression of PcotE-SNAPCd is confined to the mother cell  . However , expression of PcotE-SNAPCd was found just after asymmetric division in only 2% of the cells , and during engulfment in only 10% of the cells  . Expression increased to 66% of the cells after engulfment completion , and to 88% of the cells that showed phase bright spores  . Expression of PcotE-SNAPCd was eliminated by disruption of sigE , but retained in 3% of the sporulating cells of a sigF mutant  . Moreover , 66% of the cells of a sigG mutant that had completed the engulfment process  showed expression of the reporter fusion , again suggesting σK activity independently of σG . Interestingly , disruption of sigK did not abolish expression of the fusion , which was detected in 90% of the sporulating cells , but at low levels  . This raises the possibility that σE is responsible for the few cells that produce the reporter prior to engulfment completion . 1 for cells of the wild type strain prior to engulfment completion  , of 1 . 8 for those that had just completed engulfment  , and of 3 . 1 for cells with phase bright spores   . Inactivation of sigG did not affect the expression level of the fusion prior to engulfment completion  , nor did it prevent expression following engulfment completion   . Finally , the average fluorescence signal for all cells of the sigK mutant was lower  than for pre-engulfment cells of the wild type   , suggesting that both σE and σK contribute to expression of the reporter fusion in these cells . Together , these data suggest that the main period of σK activity is delayed relative to engulfment completion , and coincides with development of spore refractility . The cytological and TEM analysis shows that the sigF and sigE mutants are arrested just after asymmetric division . difficile , consistent with the function of these sigma factors in B . subtilis . In contrast , disruption of either the sigF or sigE genes in C . acetobutylicum blocks sporulation prior to asymmetric division  ,  . difficile , expression of both sigF and sigE commenced in predivisional cells , in line with work showing that expression of the sigF-containing operon  occurs from a σH and Spo0A-controlled promoter , and with the observation that transcription of sigE is activated from a σA-type promoter to which Spo0A also binds  ,  . subtilis , following asymmetric septation , Spo0A becomes a cell-specific transcription factor , active predominantly in the mother cell  . difficile , because transcription of sigE increased in the mother cell , relative to the forespore , following asymmetric division  . difficile predivisional cell under Spo0A control – ,  ,  . Because the activity of σF was confined to the forespore , we presume that the pathway leading to the forespore-specific activation of this sigma factor is also conserved . acetobutylicum , this pathway may lead to σF activation in pre-divisional cells , as disruption of sigF or spoIIE blocks sporulation prior to asymmetric division  ,  . Processing of pro-σE in the mother cell requires activation of the SpoIIGA protease by SpoIIR , a σF-controlled signaling protein secreted from the forespore  ,  . difficile , the activity of σE was also restricted to the mother cell  . subtilis . subtilis , the forespore-specific transcription of sigG is initiated by σF but is delayed , relative to other σF-dependent genes , towards the engulfment sequence  ,  ,  ,  . Moreover , the activity of σE , in the mother cell , is required for transcription of sigG  ,  . In contrast , transcription of sigG in C . Transcription of sigG also appears to be independent of sigE in C . The main period of sigG transcription in B . subtilis relies on an auto-regulatory loop activated coincidently with engulfment completion  . difficile as well as from other Clostridia  ,  ,  . difficile , not only is transcription of sigG observed soon after asymmetric division , but the activity of σG , is also detected prior to engulfment completion . subtilis , the 8 mother cell proteins encoded by the spoIIIA operon , which localize to the forespore outer membrane , and the forespore-specific SpoIIQ protein , which localizes to the forespore inner membrane , are involved in the assembly of a specialized secretion system that links the cytoplasm of the two cells – . The SpoIIIAH and SpoIIQ proteins also facilitate forespore engulfment in B . subtilis  . difficile  . difficile and if so , whether they are required for engulfment and/or continued gene expression in the engulfed forespore . The TEM analysis shows that the sigK mutant of C . difficile lacks a visible coat  . subtilis  ,  assembly of the coat begins with σE , as suggested by the forespore localization of CotB-SNAP in cells of the sigK mutant , and supported by recent work on the analysis of coat morphogenetic proteins SpoIVA and SipL  . difficile σK in mother cell autolysis , are functions shared with its B . subtilis counterpart . difficile sigK gene was dependent on sigE , and was detected at low levels prior to engulfment completion . However , both transcription and activity increased , following engulfment completion , coincidently with the appearance of phase grey and phase bright spores . Transcription of the sigK and spoIVCA genes of B . difficile . subtilis , sigG is not essential for the activity of σK . subtilis result in coat deposition , but not cortex formation , phenocopying the sigG mutant of C . difficile  . While the activity of σK did not require σG , our data shows that mutation of sigG reduced the activity of σK at late stages of spore morphogenesis . Because the sigG mutant fails to form phase grey/bright spores , we do not presently know if a forespore-mother cell signaling operates at this stage , or whether the late stages in spore morphogenesis serve as a cue for enhanced activity of σK . We show that the main periods of activity of the four cell type-specific sigma factors of C . difficile are conserved , relative to the B . difficile is still unclear  ,  . difficile sporulation , and for the functional characterization of genes predicted to be important for spore functions related to host colonization , spore germination , recurrent sporulation in the host , and spore dissemination . subtilis . Sporulation of B . subtilis was induced by growth and exhaustion in Difco sporulation medium   . Sporulation assays were performed in SM medium  . difficile cultures . 1% taurocholate  , to promote efficient spore germination  . To study σE- or σF-dependent control , we harvested cells from 630Δerm , sigF and sigE mutants after 14 h of growth in SM medium . Strain 630Δerm and the sigG or the sigK mutants were harvested after 19 h  and 24 h  of growth in SM medium . The construction of transcriptional fusions of the promoters for the sigF , sigE , sigG and sigK genes , as well as the construction of translational fusions of cotB and cotE to the SNAP-tag  is described in detail in Text S1 . difficile  , which we termed SNAPCd  . The cells were lysed using a French pressure cell  . The cells were washed with 1 ml of PBS , and ressuspended in 0 . For phase contrast and fluorescence microscopy , cells were mounted on 1 . difficile cells  . 
We explore a framework to model the dose response of allosteric multisite phosphorylation proteins using a single auxiliary variable . This reduction can closely replicate the steady state behavior of detailed multisite systems such as the Monod-Wyman-Changeux allosteric model or rule-based models . Optimal ultrasensitivity is obtained when the activation of an allosteric protein by its individual sites is concerted and redundant . The reduction makes this framework useful for modeling and analyzing biochemical systems in practical applications , where several multisite proteins may interact simultaneously . multisite phosphorylation are not completely understood . A reasonable hypothesis is that multisite phosphorylation can give rise to ultrasensitive dose responses , in a way that would not be possible in a comparable single-site system – . On the other hand , such detailed multisite mechanisms are normally not used as part of actual mathematical models of biochemical interactions . This is because explicitly modeling multiple sites usually involves the introduction of numerous variables , one or more for each phosphorylation state , and realistic models are often too complex already to justify this additional effort . Systems that attempt to model biochemical reactions explicitly often use the assumption that the protein has two states , one active and one inactive , with a simple reaction to transform one into the other , effectively assuming that the protein only has one site . In this paper we describe a simple mechanistic approach for modeling multisite allosteric proteins . Under this framework one keeps track of the fraction of modified sites in the protein , and the concentration of active protein over time is estimated from this information . The protein is activated in a way that requires the phosphorylation of several but not all of the sites . In a sense , this mechanism can be considered a one-variable , quasi-steady state reduction of a model similar to the Monod-Wyman-Changeux allosteric system  , although uses of MF modeling outside of MWC are also possible . The MF framework can also be extended to other types of multisite modification such as ligand binding , multisite transcription factor regulation , multisite methylation or acetylation , ubiquitination , etc  ,  . In the current work we describe a detailed mechanistic model of a cell size checkpoint . Growth of the bud eventually switches to isotropic growth , in which the bud grows over its entire surface   . This checkpoint is the subject of our model . See Tyson and Novak  for an accessible introduction to the systems-wide modeling of cell cycle checkpoints . The MF approximation equation was first developed in  , in the context of multisite systems with independent modification sites , with an emphasis on the estimation of the Hill exponents of sequential and nonsequential systems and on the comparison of their qualitative behavior . The validation of the approximation in cooperative systems is ultimately based on a computational comparison of the MF reduction with detailed cooperative models having or variables . In the first two Results sections we carry out a description of the modified fraction method to model multisite systems , and we compare simulations of the reduced model with those of a detailed mechanistic model . We start by describing the assumptions on our model in the context of multisite phosphorylation  . Suppose that a protein substrate is phosphorylated by a kinase at possible sites and dephosphorylated by a phosphatase . The system is cooperative in the sense that site phosphorylation accelerates the phosphorylation of neighboring sites . Since the number of sites is relatively large , the activation is thought to be cumulative and the effect of any individual site is assumed to be small . The sites are assumed to be equivalent to each other , in the sense that the rate of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation is similar across all sites and that no site has a stronger effect on substrate activation than other sites . Thus the active protein concentration can be defined as the concentration of the protein bound to a particular molecule or in a particular molecular state . Suppose that the phosphorylations lead to the concerted , redundant activation of the protein . We define the activity function such that the fraction of active protein with phosphorylated sites is given by . For instance , Ste5 is a scaffold protein in budding yeast with phosphorylation sites , which relays a pheromone response only when it is bound to the membrane  ,  . According to the modified fraction framework , we estimate the concentration of a particular protein state from the overall fraction of modified sites . For instance , if the protein has sites and the fraction of phosphorylated sites is , then the fraction of protein with only the first and last sites phosphorylated is roughlyHere is the total protein concentration . the sites are not independent of each other , but it is an approximation assuming cooperative effects are sufficiently weak . Notice that the different quantities in this formula can potentially be measured in the lab - the active protein concentration via an activity assay , the total protein concentration via Western blot , and the activity function through site-directed mutagenesis . If is the fraction of active sites over time , and the timescale of protein activation is much faster than the rate at which changes , then one can approximate at any given time using the same formula . It is necessary to calculate the fraction of phosphorylation itself . Assuming linear rates of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation for , one obtains the system That is , , where is the fraction of inactive sites . This is the default for the model , although any other rate equation for can be used , including Michaelis-Menten complex formation at the level of the individual sites . The function can actually be highly switch-like for large , which illustrates how small increases in the kinase can result in large activity changes in the protein , unlike linear rate models with only one site . In Figure 2A we show the relationship between the fraction of phosphorylated sites and the active protein concentration for a particular choice of the MF parameters using the approximation formula  . Notice that the activation is concerted and redundant , in that a minimal threshold of phosphorylation is required for activation , and activation is reached for less than full phosphorylation . A validation of the performance of this model for is now shown in Figure 2 in the context of a system similar to the classical and widely used Monod-Wyman-Changeux model of an allosteric multisite protein  . The original MWC model describes the binding of oxygen to the different sites of hemoglobin and the allosteric transitions of this protein between two different states . Rather than modeling oxygen binding , a protein with phosphorylations is assumed to change between an active conformation and an inactive conformation . The coefficient accounts for an assumption that the protein is phosphorylated at a faster rate when it is active than when it is inactive . The coefficients etc represent the fact that this is still a nonsequential model: for instance , can be phosphorylated at different sites , so the phosphorylation rate is multiplied by . See the derivation of this model from more basic principles in Text S1 , and a recent review on multisite systems by one of the authors  . Using this multisite model , we now derive parameters for a corresponding MF model . For instance , one can define the ‘average’ phosphorylation rate at a given phosphorylation site , regardless of whether the protein is active or inactive , , and the dephosphorylation rate . By way of derivation of the activity function , suppose that a protein with phosphorylations is switching between active and inactive form , At steady state , we assume that this exchange is balanced and calculate . Then the fraction of active sites with phosphorylations at steady state isIn other words , where and . In particular , the ultrasensitive behavior of the function generally increases with the number of sites . At any given time , the active protein concentration of the full model is defined as . In Figure 2C we compare the full 12-variable MWC model for with the corresponding MF approximation . For every value of the input kinase concentration , the resulting concentration of active protein is plotted at steady state . Notice the close similarity between the two graphs , which is even more surprising since MF is essentially a one-variable model . For comparison , we also plot the behavior of an overly simplified but all too commonly used model , in which the substrate is assumed to have a single phosphorylation site instead of sites , and it is modeled according to the reactionusing linear reaction rates . Notice that the behavior of this single-site model in Figure 2C is very different from that of the MWC model , and that any switch-like behavior in the response is lost . For every such set of parameters , the two graphs were plotted at steady state as a function of , and the error was calculated in Figure 2D . Thus MF can also be seen as the 1-variable reduction of a system with variables and a much larger number of reactions . In this section , we will embed the MF system within increasingly complex systems of equations . For fixed , the solutions of the full model form the intersection of the graphs for the equations  ,  . The active Zds1/PP2A dimer also acts as the overall output of the system , since it triggers the downstream response to cell cycle regulatory proteins . Given that Rho1 has a rate of growth proportional to and a linear rate of degradation , at steady state one can show that and are proportional , . This follows from adding the ODE rate equations at steady state , . In this way one can use the total Rho1 concentration as a bifurcation parameter at steady state even though it is simultaneously a variable in the system . Let's look at how the system has a hysteretic response for increasing values of the flow signal and the corresponding total Rho1 concentration at steady state . The total Rho1 concentration increases over time with the inflow of vesicles . At a certain timepoint the active Rho1 concentration abruptly increases , due to the switch at the Pkc1/Rho1 upstream level . An increase in Rho1/Pkc1 concentration some time before this can be seen in Figure 4C . At a later time the switch between Zds1 and PP2A is also triggered , leading to a sudden increase in PP2A/Zds1 concentration . In Figure 4D we plot the output signal PP2A/Zds1 as a function of total Rho1 at steady state and overlay the solution of the timecourse simulation  . This graph also illustrates the hysteretic behavior of the system , in that once a critical threshold of Rho1 concentration is reached , the output signal is dramatically increased . In this paper we have introduced a simple and compact framework to describe the dynamics of allosteric multisite phosphorylation systems , and we have applied this tool to a new molecular model of a size checkpoint in budding yeast . Multisite phosphorylation modeling can be problematic because ignoring the multiple sites can have significant effects in the dynamics , while introducing many auxiliary phosphoform variables can be cumbersome in more realistic models . to use an experimentally measured activity function directly in the model rather than using it to derive parameters . There are several reasons why the MF method might be particularly suitable for modeling many multisite phosphorylation systems . Bioinformatic data suggests that most phosphorylation sites in multisite proteins are located in unstructured and unconserved protein regions  , suggesting that often it is the collective effect that matters rather than the individual sites . Notice that the approximation formula would still hold if the protein activation is not concerted or redundant . Therefore zero-order ultrasensitivity can be used in synergy with MF in the saturation regime , and MF can be used regardless of value . In the case of the checkpoint pathway , the active proteins Pkc1 and PP2A have been found to have an approximate of 0 . Together with the onerous nature of modeling several multisite proteins using sequential networks and multiple variables each , it can be seen why a one-variable reduction such as MF can allow for much-needed simplicity . Notice that if the proteins PP2A , Pkc1 , Zds1 had only one site each , then according to the argument in the first Results section , and the downstream and upstream models could never be bistable ( see equations  and  ) . The multiple sites are providing the underlying nonlinearity so that the models can have interesting dynamical behaviors . Also , the equations  ,  , which represent the steady states of the downstream and upstream systems , have the same qualitative behavior for a wide range of parameters . Notice that while Rho1/Pkc1 activates PP2A , the downstream PP2A/Zds1 inactivates Pkc1 , forming a negative feedback loop . The MF framework eliminates several parameters such as the number of phosphorylation sites  , the transition rates and the cooperativity coefficient . Since it is assumed in the derivation of the formula  that the sites are roughly independent from each other , one might think that the MF framework doesn't work for allosteric or cooperative systems . However the detailed model in Figure 2 is allosteric , and yet the model closely describes its dynamics . The use of a MWC-type model for multisite phosphorylation has been pointed out in the past , see for instance  and the more recent  . Questions for future work include the following: if phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of the multisite protein is not faster than other processes in the system , can one still approximate away from equilibrium ? This might lead to bistable behavior in the full multisite model , which raises the question of how the corresponding model reduction might be , possibly involving multivalued functions . Protein concentrations usually range from 0 . 001 to 10 in the cell . The concentrations of total PP2A  , Zds1  and Pkc1  are set between 0 . The rates are set to 0 . there are equal amounts of active and inactive substrate at steady state . However the actual rates determine the transient behavior of the system and to some extent determine also its steady state values . We set for maximal protein concentration , that is , . The Rho1 degradation rate is set to 0 . 0001 ; it can be further decreased in order to stabilize the Rho1 protein . Regarding the activity functions , we assume that the ultrasensitive behavior of these graphs increases with the number of phosphorylation sites; see the derivation of in the Results and also  . Since PP2A , Zds1 , and Pkc1 have been found to have around 3 , 5 , and 8 sites respectively , we implement this with parameters that produce the graph observed in Figure 3A . The initial conditions used in the model correspond to the system in the off state . 
