Messenger RNAs carry the instructions necessary to synthesize proteins that do work for the cell . Extending beyond the protein-coding sequence of a given mRNA is an additional stretch of sequence , harboring signals that govern how much protein is made and how long the mRNA remains in the cell before it is broken down . The incorporation of this end region into mature mRNA is itself subject to change; for the vast majority of human genes , how and why cells use different mRNA ends remains largely unknown . In this work , we surveyed mRNA ends from ∼10 , 000 genes in immune cells from genetically distinct human individuals . We found that mRNA end positions were not randomly distributed , but rather preferentially flanked the locations of regulatory signals that govern mRNA fate . The usage of these mRNA length forms and regulatory elements varied across individuals and could be dissected molecularly . Our results uncover key mechanisms and regulatory effects of transcript end processing , particularly as these are perturbed by genetic differences between humans .
Annually , more than two million people are infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS . Due to the ability of the virus to escape host immune responses , designing a successful HIV vaccine has been elusive . Similar to HIV in humans , rhesus macaques can be infected with SIV , a close relative and ancestor of HIV , resulting in simian AIDS . SIVΔnef , a live attenuated form of SIV , protects rhesus macaques from subsequent challenge with pathogenic SIV and is widely viewed as the most effective SIV vaccine . Here , we demonstrate that after vaccination of macaques with SIVΔnef , the immune response initially targets more variable regions of the virus , which the virus rapidly escapes . However , as the virus escapes , the immune response evolves to target more conserved regions of the virus as well as escape variants . This refocused targeting of conserved regions by the immune response provides a new mechanistic model that contributes to our understanding of how SIVΔnef vaccination protects animals from pathogenic challenge with SIV . Our findings also reinforce the importance of developing HIV vaccines that target conserved regions of the virus as well as their potential variants .
The opportunistic pathogen Candida albicans is a major risk factor for immunosuppressed individuals , and oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) is a frequent complication in patients with weakened cellular immunity . The cytokine interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) plays a critical role for antifungal host defense and was proposed to act by regulating neutrophil recruitment to the oral mucosa . However , although IL-17 can promote neutrophil trafficking in some situations , we recently showed in a mouse model that this is not the case during OPC . Thus , the mechanism governing the neutrophil response to C . albicans remained to be determined . Here , we demonstrate an essential role of IL-1 receptor ( IL-1R ) signaling in the recruitment of neutrophils from the circulation to the infected tissue via enhanced secretion of chemokines and increased output of neutrophils from the bone marrow . We found that IL-1α is released from keratinocytes upon invasion of C . albicans and acts on endothelial cells to induce the production of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) , a key trigger of emergency granulopoiesis . Thereby , IL-1R signaling translates the local response to the fungus in the oral mucosa into a systemic response that critically contributes to protection from infection .
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) , commonly known as ‘elephantiasis’ , is one of the world's most debilitating infectious diseases . In 83 countries worldwide , more than 1 . 3 billion people are at risk of infection with an estimated 120 million individuals already infected . A recent publication reviewing the health impact of the first 8 years of the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) demonstrated the enormous health benefits achieved in populations receiving annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) , as a result of infection prevented , disease progression halted , and ancillary treatment of co-infections . To date , however , no studies have estimated the economic value of these health benefits , either to the individuals or the societies afflicted with LF . Our study estimates that US$21 . 8 billion will be gained among individuals benefitting from just the first 8 years of the Global Programme , and an additional US$2 . 2 billion will be saved by the health systems of endemic countries . Treating endemic populations is possible at very low cost – particularly because of the generous drug donations from two pharmaceutical companies – but results in enormous economic benefits . Findings from this study yield a much clearer understanding the GPELF's full economic impact and strengthen the conviction that it is a ‘best buy’ in global health .
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by intraneuronal accumulation of alpha-synuclein ( α-syn ) called Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites . Recent genetic studies have revealed that mutations in glucocerebrosidase ( GBA ) , a causative gene of Gaucher disease ( GD ) , are a strong risk for PD . However , its pathological mechanisms leading to PD remain largely unknown . Here , we generated GBA nonsense mutant ( GBA-/- ) medaka which survive long enough for pathological analysis of disease progression . These mutant medaka display not only the phenotypes resembling human neuronopathic GD but also axonal accumulation of α-syn accompanied by impairment of the autophagy-lysosome pathway . Furthermore , the present study demonstrates this α-syn accumulation has negligible contribution to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka . GBA-/- medaka represent a valuable model for exploring the pathological mechanisms of PD with GBA mutations as well as neuronopathic GD , and our findings have important implications for the association of GBA mutations with PD .
Little is understood about how the immune system distinguishes between pathogenic and non-pathogenic microbes . Limiting or preventing infections by intracellular pathogens requires the activation of innate immunity and the consequent generation of effector and memory T cells , which recognize and kill infected cells . Investigators are currently testing attenuated versions of pathogenic microbes as vaccines in an attempt to generate pathogen-specific T cells without causing disease . Unfortunately , attenuated microbes often fail to elicit long-lived protective immunity . We hypothesized that attenuated bacterial vaccines do not immunize because they fail to activate a stimulatory arm of host innate immune receptors . However , we found that these attenuated bacterial vaccines are not simply prevented from activating immunity , but rather generate a negative signal that inhibits the desired immune response . These studies may explain why the addition of an adjuvant to ineffective vaccines does not necessarily improve immunogenicity . Furthermore , these studies provide a framework for the development of attenuated vaccines that do not inhibit the desired immune responses .
Primary open angle glaucoma is a blinding disease for which there is currently no cure , only treatments that may slow its progress . To help understand the mechanisms of this disease and to design more effective treatments , we identified previously a locus , SIX6 , that increases the risk of glaucoma . This gene is involved in early eye development and helps to form the retina . In this paper , we test specific sequence variants in SIX6 that are found in glaucoma patients . We show that these variants have a reduced function that interferes with their ability to direct proper formation of the retina . One variant in particular is common , and may be the main reason that this gene is important in the glaucoma disease process . Patients who have two copies of this sequence variant show a change in the structure of their eye consistent with fewer neurons that carry the visual signal to the brain . These neurons typically die as people age , and people who begin life with fewer visual neurons may have an increased risk of glaucoma . Additional research in this topic may lead to new treatments that preserve sight .
Clostridium difficile is a bacterial pathogen that causes antibiotic associated diarrheal disease . Colonization of host tissues is a prerequisite step to disease development during bacterial infection . C . difficile produces flagella , which are proteinaceous structures on the bacterial surface that confer motility and participate in adherence to the host intestine . SigD , a regulator that coordinates flagellar gene expression , also activates expression of the toxin genes in C . difficile . Therefore , mechanisms controlling expression of flagellar genes , including sigD , will likely impact the severity of C . difficile infection given the impact on toxin production . In this body of work , we identified a genetic ON/OFF switch , which we term the “flagellar switch” , encoded upstream of the flagellar genes . The orientation of the flagellar switch determines whether or not C . difficile produce flagella , engage in swimming motility , and secrete toxins . We identified the enzyme that catalyzes inversion of the flagellar switch . Inactivation of the corresponding gene resulted in bacteria with the flagellar switch locked in the either the ON or OFF orientation , with concomitant effects on flagellum and toxin biosynthesis . The flagellar switch may represent a new regulatory strategy to coordinately control virulence determinants independent of previously described regulators .
Endospores , as those formed by the anaerobic Clostridial species , the aerobic Bacillus and related organisms , are highly resilient dormant cell types . Endospore development has been extensively studied in Bacillus subtilis . The process starts with an asymmetric division that forms a larger mother cell and a smaller forespore . Gene expression in these two cells is primarily governed by four cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma factors , two active sequentially in the mother cell and two active sequentially in the forespore . The precise timing of sigma factor activation is coordinated between the mother cell and forespore by several mechanisms . By combining studies of gene expression at the single cell level with the phenotypic characterization of mutants for the sigma genes , we describe the regulation of gene expression during endospore development by the intestinal pathogen C . difficile . In this organism , the endospore is the vehicle for transmission and persistence in the host and the environment . The overall picture that emerges is of a developmental program in which the coordination of gene expression between the forespore and mother cell is less tight than in B . subtilis , in what may be a general feature of endospore formation in the more ancient Clostridia group of bacteria .
A large number of proteins in the cell are modified post-translationally by phosphorylation at multiple specific locations . This can help bring about interesting dynamical behaviors such as bistability or all-or-none responses to stimuli . Such behaviors are in turn important for cellular decision-making , differentiation , or the regulation of cellular processes . In this paper we propose the use of a specific technique for modeling allosteric multisite proteins , which can be thought of as the reduced version of a more detailed set of reactions . After validating this technique computationally by comparison to more detailed systems , we apply it to a new model of a signal transduction pathway with several multisite proteins . The model is concerned with a mechanism in budding yeast that is thought to measure the extent of daughter bud growth and send a signal to initiate mitosis when sufficient growth has occurred . Using the given framework we derive an analytically tractable model that creates the desired all-or-none signal . Overall , we give quantitative support to a newly discovered biochemical pathway , and we show the utility of the new modeling framework in the context of a realistic biological problem .
