The DNA in genes encodes the basic information needed to build an organism or control its day-to-day operations . Most cells in an organism contain the same genetic information , but different types of cell use the information differently . For example , many of the genes that are active in a muscle cell are different from those that are active in a skin cell . These different patterns of gene activation largely determine a cell’s identity and are brought about by DNA-binding proteins or chemical modifications to the DNA ( which are both forms of so-called epigenetic regulation ) . Nevertheless , cells occasionally change their identities – a phenomenon that is referred to as reprograming . This process allows tissues to be regenerated after wounding , but , due to technical difficulties , reprograming has been often studied in isolated cells grown in a dish . Seelk , Adrian-Kalchhauser et al . set out to understand how being surrounded by intact tissue influences reprograming . The experiments made use of C . elegans worms , because disturbing how this worm’s DNA is packaged can trigger its cells to undergo reprograming . Seelk , Adrian-Kalchhauser et al . show that a signaling pathway that is found in many different animals enhances this kind of reprograming in C . elegans . On the one hand , these findings help in understanding how epigenetic regulation can be altered by a specific tissue environment . On the other hand , the findings also suggest that abnormal signaling can result in altered epigenetic control of gene expression and lead to cells changing their identity . Indeed , increased signaling is linked to a major epigenetic mechanism seen in specific blood tumors , suggesting that the regulatory principles uncovered using this simple worm model could eventually provide insights into a human disease . A future challenge will be to determine precisely how the studied signaling pathway interacts with the epigenetic regulator that controls reprograming . Understanding this interaction in molecular detail could help to devise strategies for controlling reprograming . These strategies could in turn lead to treatments for people with conditions that cause specific cells types to be lost , such as Alzheimer’s disease or injuries .
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a type of bacteria that can cause life-threatening infections – including pneumonia , blood stream infections , and urinary tract infections – in hospitalized patients . These infections can be difficult to treat because some K . pneumoniae are resistant to antibiotics . The bacteria are normally found in the human intestine , and they do not usually cause infections in healthy people . This implies that healthy people’s immune systems are better able to fend off K . pneumoniae infections; learning how could help scientists develop new ways to treat or prevent infections in hospitalized patients . In healthy people , a type of immune cell called neutrophils are the first line of defense against bacterial infections . Several different proteins are needed to activate neutrophils , including a protein called SKAP2 . But the role of this protein in fighting K . pneumoniae infections is not clear . To find out what role SKAP2 plays in the defense against pneumonia caused by K . pneumoniae , Nguyen et al . compared infections in mice with and without the protein . Mice lacking SKAP2 in their white blood cells had more bacteria in their lungs than normal mice . The experiments showed that neutrophils from mice with SKAP2 produce a burst of chemicals called “reactive oxygen species” , which can kill bacteria . But neutrophils without the protein do not . Without SKAP2 , several proteins that help produce reactive oxygen species do not work . Understanding the role of SKAP2 in fighting infections may help scientists better understand the immune system . This could help clinicians to treat conditions that cause it to be hyperactive or ineffective . More studies are needed to determine if SKAP2 works the same way in human neutrophils and if it works against all types of K . pneumoniae . If it does , then scientists might be able use this information to develop therapies that help the immune system fight infections .
Malaria is one of the world's most deadly infections , causing 100s of 1000s of deaths each year despite being both preventable and curable . Malaria is caused by Plasmodium parasites , which are transmitted between humans by mosquitoes . When a mosquito bites a human , Plasmodium is injected into the bloodstream with the mosquito's saliva . The parasite then travels through the bloodstream to the liver , infects liver cells and multiplies within those cells without causing any noticeable symptoms . After remaining silent in the liver for weeks or months , the now abundant parasite ruptures the host liver cell , re-enters the bloodstream , and begins infecting red blood cells . If another mosquito bites the infected individual and takes a blood meal , the parasite moves into the mosquito and the cycle of transmission continues . There are several species of Plasmodium that are known to cause malaria . The most widely studied species is P . falciparum , which also causes one of the deadliest types of malaria . However , another Plasmodium species called P . vivax is the most widely distributed species and , despite being less virulent than P . falciparum , is particularly dangerous because it causes recurring malaria . In contrast to P . falciparum , P . vivax has the ability to form hypnozoites: a dormant form of the parasite that can remain inside liver cells for long periods of time , sometimes for years . The reservoir of P . vivax hypnozoites can regularly populate the bloodstream with the infectious form of the parasite , triggering relapses of malaria . Even if an individual suffering a relapse receives prompt treatment to clear parasites in the blood , more parasites may emerge from the liver and cause new blood-stage infections . White et al . developed a mathematical model to help understand how P . vivax is transmitted . Unlike many of the established models of malaria transmission , the new model accounts for the reservoir of P . vivax hypnozoites in the liver , and assumes that hypnozoites in the reservoir either die , or are activated and enter the bloodstream , at a constant rate . This produces patterns that closely match how often relapses occur in patients . White et al . go on to predict that although many infected people have few or no hypnozoites in their liver , some have many hypnozoites , and these people are more likely to suffer from malaria relapses . This suggests that if the initial treatments given to malaria sufferers incorporate additional drugs that kill the hypnozoites in the liver , then it may be possible to substantially reduce the extent of P . vivax transmission .
The Amazon rainforest in South America is the largest tropical forest in the world . Along with being home to a huge variety of plants and wildlife , rainforests also play an important role in storing an element called carbon , which is a core component of all life on Earth . Certain forms of carbon , such as the gas carbon dioxide , contribute to climate change so researchers want to understand what factors affect how much carbon is stored in rainforests . Trees and other plants absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and then incorporate the carbon into carbohydrates and other biological molecules . The Amazon rainforest alone holds around 30% of the total carbon stored in land-based ecosystems . Humans selectively harvest certain species of tree that produce wood with commercial value from the Amazon rainforest . This “selective logging” results in the loss of stored carbon from the rainforest , but the loss can be compensated for in the medium to long term if the forest is left to regrow . New trees and trees that survived the logging grow to fill the gaps left by the felled trees . However , it is not clear how differences in the forest ( for example , forest maturity ) , environmental factors ( such as climate or soil ) and the degree of the disturbance caused by the logging affect the ability of the forest ecosystem to recover the lost carbon . Piponiot et al . used computer modeling to analyze data from over a hundred different forest plots across the Amazon rainforest . The models show that the forest’s ability to recover carbon after selective logging greatly differs between regions . For example , the overall amount of carbon recovered in the first ten years is predicted to be higher in a region in the north known as the Guiana Shield than in the south of the Amazonian basin where the climate is less favorable . The findings of Piponiot et al . highlight the key role the trees that survive selective logging play in carbon recovery . The next step would be to couple this model to historical maps of logging to estimate how the areas of the rainforest that are managed by selective logging shape the overall carbon balance of the Amazon rainforest .
Neurons that arise in the adult nervous system originate from neural stem cells and neural progenitor cells . Neural stem cells have long lives , much of which they spend in a quiescent state . Neural stem cells can also give rise to neural progenitor cells , which proliferate rapidly during their short lives and then ‘differentiate’ into neurons or glia . Unlike some other tissues , it has not been possible to identify or purify neural stem cells directly from the tissue . Consequently , neural stem and progenitor cells have usually been studied retrospectively , based on their ability to form colonies in laboratory cell cultures . A region of the brain called the subventricular zone contains both neural stem cells and neural progenitor cells , and is one of only two regions of the brain where neural stem cells are found in adult mammals . When cells from the subventricular zone are cultured in a way that allows the cells to freely float around ( rather than growing on a surface ) , a few percent form spherical colonies called neurospheres . Since neurosphere-forming cells can self-renew and differentiate into neurons and glia , the ability of cells to form neurospheres has generally been taken as evidence that they are stem cells . However , the exact relationship between neural stem cells and neurosphere-forming cells has been uncertain . Now , Mich , Signer et al . have used a technique called flow cytometry to identify and isolate neural stem cells and neurosphere-forming cells directly from the subventricular zone . The neural stem cells , which Mich , Signer et al . term pre-GEPCOT cells ( based on an acronym of the markers used to isolate the cells ) , were long-lived and quiescent , but they lacked the ability to form colonies in culture . The neurosphere-forming cells , named GEPCOT cells , were short-lived and highly proliferative in the brain . These results demonstrate that the cells that form neurospheres in culture are not stem cells at all , and that real stem cells are not able to form colonies under existing culture conditions . The identification of undifferentiated pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells will make it possible to directly study the properties of these cells inside the mouse brain , and to isolate live cells to test how they function . The results also highlight the need for new tests to study neural stem cell function , given that current tests using neurospheres do not detect stem cells as commonly assumed .
Cells can sense a range of mechanical forces both inside and outside the body , such as the stroke of a fingertip or the filling of a lung . Pores on the surface of the cell called Piezo channels open up in response to this pressure . This allows ions to flood in to the cell and trigger a series of biochemical reactions that alter the cell’s behavior . Piezo channels have a unique bowl-like structure that transforms the shape of the cell surface around them , potentially affecting how nearby proteins behave . Previous research had suggested that these channels might be unevenly distributed across the cell surface , and were predicted to modify each other’s behaviors when tightly packed together . This cooperative response would have a significant impact on how cells sense mechanical force . To investigate if this was the case , Lewis and Grandl studied a mouse cell called Neuro2A which naturally produces Piezo ion channels . In the experiment , pressure was applied to different parts of the cell and the electric current generated by ions moving across the surface was recorded: the higher the electrical activity , the more ion channels present . This showed that Piezo channels are randomly distributed across the cell surface and do not tend to cluster together . The same Neuro2A cells were then engineered to produce up to one hundred times more Piezo proteins . Despite the channels being more densely packed together , how they responded to mechanical force remained the same . These results suggest that Piezo channels act independently and are not influenced by close proximity to one another . Lewis and Grandl propose that this property may ensure that all parts of the cell surface react to mechanical force in the same way . Further work is needed to see if this finding applies to other cell types that produce Piezo proteins .
Many of our decisions are made on the basis of imperfect or ‘noisy’ information . A longstanding goal in neuroscience is to work out how such noise affects three aspects of decision-making: the accuracy ( or appropriateness ) of a choice , the speed at which the choice is made , and the decision-maker’s confidence that they have chosen correctly . One theory of decision-making is that the brain simultaneously accumulates evidence for each of the options it is considering , until one option exceeds a threshold and is declared the ‘winner’ . This theory is known as bounded evidence accumulation . It predicts that increasing the noisiness of the available information decreases the accuracy of decisions made in response . Counterintuitively , it also predicts that such an increase in noise speeds up decision-making and increases confidence levels . Zylberberg et al . have now tested these predictions experimentally by getting human volunteers and monkeys to perform a series of trials where they had to decide whether a set of randomly moving dots moved to the left or to the right overall . Using a newly developed method , the noisiness of the dot motion could be changed between trials . The effectiveness of this technique was confirmed by recording the activity of neurons in the region of the monkey brain that processes visual motion information . After each trial , the humans rated their confidence in their decision . By comparison , the monkeys could indicate that they were not confident in a decision by opting for a guaranteed small reward on certain trials ( instead of the larger reward they received when they correctly indicated the direction of motion of the dots ) . In both humans and monkeys , increasing the noisiness associated with the movement of the dots led to faster and more confident decision-making , just as the bounded evidence accumulation framework predicts . Furthermore , the results presented by Zylberberg et al . suggest that the brain does not always gauge how reliable evidence is in order to fine-tune decisions . Now that the role of noise in decision-making is better understood , future experiments could attempt to reveal how artificial manipulations of the brain contribute both information and noise to a decision . Other experiments might ascertain when the brain can learn that noisy information should invite slower , more cautious decisions .
Although aging might seem to be a passive process—resulting simply from wear and tear over a lifetime—it can actually be accelerated or slowed down by genetic mutations . This phenomenon has been most thoroughly studied in the nematode worm , Caenorhabditis elegans . Normally , this worm lives for just two or three weeks , but genetic mutations that reduce the activity of certain enzymes in a series of biochemical reactions known as the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway can extend its lifespan by up to a factor of ten , and similar effects have been seen in flies and mice . Lifespans can also be increased by blocking other signalling pathways or restricting the intake of calories . This increase in lifespan associated with the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway is known to involve a protein called DAF-16 and two kinases called AKT-1 and AKT-2 . Under normal conditions the AKT kinases add several phosphate groups to the DAF-16 , which prevents it from travelling to the nucleus of the cell . However , when genetic techniques are used to block the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway , the AKT kinases are unable to add the phosphate groups; this leaves the DAF-16 free to enter the nucleus , where it activates a network of genes that promotes longevity . In addition to kinases , the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway also involves enzymes called phosphatases that remove the phosphate groups from other proteins . In particular , a phosphatase called calcineurin is known to be involved in the regulation of lifespan , but the details of this process are not fully understood . Now , Tao et al . have carried out a series of genetic and biochemical experiments to determine how phosphatases exert their influence on aging . The results show that calcineurin targets DAF-16 , the same protein that is targeted by the AKT kinases . Moreover , another kinase also targets DAF-16 when the worm is exposed to heat , starvation or some other form of stress: this kinase , which is not involved in the insulin/IGF-1 signalling pathway , is called CAMKII . Tao et al . show that these kinases act on DAF-16 in different ways: CAMKII activates it by adding the phosphate group at a specific site known as S286 , whereas the AKT kinases deactivate DAF-16 because they add phosphate groups at different sites , thereby preventing it from entering the nucleus . Calcineurin neutralizes the effect of CAMKII by removing the phosphate group at S286 to deactivate the DAF-16 . In addition to shedding new light on the regulation of lifespan in C . elegans , the new results could improve our understanding of aging in humans , and also the development of diabetes and other age-related diseases , because the equivalent molecules in mammalian cells are regulated in similar ways .
Anyone who has ever lived with a cat is familiar with its grooming behavior . This innate behavior follows a particular sequence as the cat methodically cleans its body parts one-by-one . Many animals also have grooming habits , even insects such as fruit flies . The fact that grooming sequences are seen across such different species suggests that this behavior is important for survival . Nevertheless , how the brain organizes grooming sequences , or other behaviors that involve a sequence of tasks , is not well understood . Fruit flies make a good model for studying grooming behavior for a couple of reasons . First , they are fastidious cleaners . When coated with dust they will faithfully carry out a series of cleaning tasks to clean each body part . Second , there are many genetic tools and techniques that researchers can use to manipulate the fruit flies' behaviors . One technique allows specific brain cells to be targeted and activated to trigger particular behaviors . Seeds et al . used these sophisticated techniques , computer modeling , and behavioral observations to uncover how the brains of fruit flies orchestrate a grooming sequence . Dust-covered flies follow a predictable sequence of cleaning tasks: beginning by using their front legs to clean their eyes , they then clean their antennae and head . This likely helps to protect their sensory organs . Next , they move on to the abdomen , possibly to ensure that dust doesn't interfere with their ability to breathe . Wings and thorax follow last . Periodically , the flies stop to rub their legs together to remove any accumulated dust before resuming the cleaning sequence . Seeds et al . activated different sets of brain cells one-by-one to see if they could trigger a particular grooming task and found that individual cleaning tasks could be triggered , in the absence of dust , by stimulating a specific group of brain cells . This suggests each cleaning task is a discrete behavior controlled by a subset of cells . Then Seeds et al . tried to stimulate more than one cleaning behavior at a time; they discovered that wing-cleaning suppressed thorax-cleaning , abdomen-cleaning suppressed both of these , and head-cleaning suppressed all the others . This suggests that a ‘hierarchy’ exists in the brain that exactly matches the sequence that flies normally follow as they clean their body parts . By learning more about how the brain coordinates grooming sequences , the findings of Seeds et al . may also provide insights into other behaviors that involve a sequence of tasks , such as nest building in animals or typing in humans . Following on from this work , one of the next challenges will be to see if such behaviors also use a ‘suppression hierarchy’ to ensure that individual tasks are carried out in the right order .
Human reproductive cells—eggs and sperm—are produced through a process called meiosis . This means a ‘parent’ cell in the ovaries or testes undergoes two stages of cell division: it first divides into two cells , which then divide again to produce four ‘daughter’ cells . A crucial part of meiosis is ensuring that each daughter cell has half the number of chromosomes that the parent cell did . Before the first round of meiosis , the chromosomes in the parent cell are copied to produce enough chromosomes for the four daughter cells . The distribution of these chromosomes between the daughter cells is determined by the opposing forces acting on them . The pairs of identical chromosomes produced during the copying process are held together by a proteinaceous glue , while microtubules attached to a structure called the spindle—which has poles at opposite ends of the cell—try to pull these pairs of chromosomes apart . Rattani et al . now show that a protein called shugoshin-like 2 ( Sgol2 ) , which is involved in holding pairs of identical chromosomes together after the first round of division , has a bigger role than was previously realised . Sgol2 performs three other functions: it helps to align the chromosomes prior to division by , it is thought , facilitating the formation of the K-fibers that attach the microtubules to the chromosomes; it turns off the checkpoint that monitors the alignment of the chromosomes and the attachment of the microtubules; and it regulates a number of the enzymes involved in the process . The specific interactions that allow Sgol2 to perform these diverse functions in meiosis were also identified . Thus , Rattani et al . show that in linking so many essential processes throughout meiosis , Sgol2 appears to have a key , if not unique , role in determining the fate of chromosomes as cells divide .
The nervous system contains billions of cells called neurons that connect to each other to form complex networks via junctions known as synapses . Synapses form between the end of an elongated section ( called the axon ) of one neuron and the tiny projections ( or dendrites ) from the cell body of the next neuron . Throughout the lifespan of an animal , the nervous system responds to experiences and stimuli from the environment by changing the strength of the connections at synapses; this is known as ‘synaptic plasticity’ . In this way , long-term information about learning and memory can be stored and used to direct future responses to similar situations . Many proteins are involved in forming and altering synapses . The genes that code for these proteins are found in the nucleus of the neuron within the cell body . To make new proteins , copies of genes are made using molecules called mRNAs , which then leave the nucleus and are used as templates by the machinery that assemble proteins . Previous studies have shown that mRNA molecules are transported from the cell body to the axon and dendrites , but it is not clear exactly where the proteins are produced . Kim et al . have now studied the movement of mRNAs in neurons from the sea slug Aplysia during synapse formation and synapse plasticity . This showed that mRNAs are delivered equally throughout the neuron , and so it appears that mRNAs are not targeted to a particular synapse . However , the level of protein production using these mRNA molecules is much higher in places where synapses are being formed or altered . A protein called netrin-1 promotes protein production in the dendrites of neurons at these synapses . Kim et al . demonstrate that although mRNAs are delivered throughout the neuron , they are only used to make proteins at specific synapses . This allows the entire neuron to be in a state of readiness to make new synapses or alter existing ones in response to stimuli from the environment . Understanding more about how this local control of protein production works within neurons may provide new insights into diseases that affect synaptic plasticity .
Embryos begin as a collection of similar cells , which progress in stages to form a huge variety of cell types in particular arrangements . These patterns of cells give rise to the different tissues and organs that make up the body . Although we often use ‘model’ organisms such as mice and frogs to study how embryos develop , our species has evolved unique ways to control organ development . Investigating these processes is difficult: we cannot experiment on human embryos , and our development is hard to recreate in test tubes . As a result , we do not fully understand how developing human cells specialize and organize . Libby et al . have now created a new system to study how different genes control cell organization . The system uses human pluripotent stem cells – cells that have the ability to specialize into any type of cell . Some of the stem cells are modified using a technique called inducible CRISPR interference , which makes it possible to reduce the activity of certain genes in these cells . Libby et al . used this technique to investigate how changes to the activity of two genes – called ROCK1 and CDH1 – affect how a mixed group of stem cells organized themselves . Cells that lacked ROCK1 formed bands near the edges of the group . Cells that lacked CDH1 segregated themselves from other cells , forming ‘islands’ inside the main group . The cells retained their ability to specialize into any type of cell after forming these patterns . However , specific groups of cells were more likely to become certain cell types . The method developed by Libby et al . can be used to study a range of complex tissue development and cell organization processes . Future work could create human tissue model systems for research into human disease or drug development .
You can read this sentence from beginning to end without losing track of its meaning thanks to your working memory . This system temporarily stores information relevant to whatever task you are currently performing . However , the more items you try to hold in working memory at once , the poorer the quality of each of the resulting memories . It has long been argued that this phenomenon – known as the set size effect – occurs because the brain devotes a fixed amount of neural resources to working memory . But this theory struggles to account for certain experimental results . It also fails to explain why the brain would not simply recruit more resources whenever it has more items to remember . After all , your heart does something similar by beating faster whenever you increase your physical activity . Van den Berg and Ma break with the idea that working memory resources are fixed . They propose that resource allocation is flexible and driven by two conflicting goals: maximize memory performance , but use as few neural resources as necessary . Indeed , a computer simulation that follows this strategy mimics the set size effects seen in healthy volunteers . In the model , the items most relevant for a task are stored more accurately than less important ones , a phenomenon also observed in participants . Lastly , the simulation predicts that the total amount of resources devoted to working memory will vary with the number of items to be remembered . This too is consistent with the results of previous experiments . Working memory thus appears to be more flexible than previously thought . The amount of resources that the brain allocates to working memory is not fixed but could be the result of balancing resource cost against cognitive performance . If this is confirmed , it may be possible to improve working memory by offering rewards , or by increasing the perceived importance of a task .
Plants and other living organisms can survive stress and starvation by digesting and recycling parts of their own cells . This process is known as autophagy and it involves engulfing cellular material inside spherical structures called autophagosomes , before delivering it to sites in the cell where digestive enzymes can break the material down . A form of autophagy , known as selective autophagy , can specifically degrade toxic substances such as disease-causing microbes . Selective autophagy works through proteins called autophagy cargo receptors that define which molecules are targeted for degradation . However , it was not clear whether autophagy protects plants from infections , or how much disease-causing microbes interfere with this process for their own benefit . The microbe that causes late blight of potatoes ( called Phytophthora infestans ) is infamous for triggering widespread famines in Ireland in the 19th century . This disease-causing microbe continues to pose a serious threat to food security today , and parasitizes plant tissues by releasing proteins called effectors that enter the plant’s cells to subvert the plant’s physiology and counteract its defenses . Dagdas , Belhaj et al . now report that an effector from P . infestans , called PexRD54 , can bind to autophagy-related protein from potato , called ATG8CL , and stimulate the formation of autophagosomes . Further experiments revealed that the PexRD54 effector could outcompete a plant autophagy cargo receptor that would otherwise bind to ATG8CL . This plant cargo receptor contributes to the plant’s defences , and by preventing it from interacting with ATG8CL , PexRD54 makes the plant more susceptible to infection by P . infestans . These findings show that the PexRD54 effector has evolved to interact with an autophagy-related protein to counteract the plant’s defences . Dagdas , Belhaj et al . suggest that PexRD54 might do this by activating autophagy to selectively eliminate some of the molecules that the plant use to defend itself . Furthermore , P . infestans might also benefit from the nutrients that are released when cellular material is broken down via autophagy . Future work could test these two hypotheses and explore whether other effectors from disease-causing microbes work in a similar way .
When the supply of oxygen to the heart is reduced , its cells start to die within hours , the heart muscle becomes less able to contract , and the area becomes inflamed . This inflammation is accompanied by an influx of immune cells . It also activates other cells known as cardiac fibroblasts that help to break down the framework of molecules that supported the damaged heart tissue and replace it with a scar . This response is part of the normal repair process , but it can lead to the formation of scar tissue in non-damaged areas of the heart . Excess scar tissue makes the heart muscle less able to contract and increases the affected individual’s chance of dying . Understanding how this repair process works is an important step in developing strategies to minimise the damage caused by coronary artery disease or heart attacks . However , existing laboratory models are only partly able to recreate the conditions seen in real heart tissue . To properly understand the response at the level of living cells , a more complete model is needed . Ugolini et al . now report improvements to a small device , referred to as a lab-on-chip , that can subject cells to mechanical strain . The improvements mean the device could also recreate other conditions seen early on in damaged heart tissue , specifically the reduced supply of oxygen . Replicating combinations of mechanical changes and oxygen supplies meant that the impact of these conditions on human cardiac fibroblasts could be directly observed in the laboratory for the first time . Ugolini et al . found that a lack of contraction and low oxygen levels triggered the cardiac fibroblasts to produce inflammatory molecules and molecules associated with the formation of scar tissue . This resembles the response seen in living hearts . The next step is to improve the lab-on-chip device further by adding other cell types , including heart muscle cells and immune cells . A more complete model may aid future research into how our hearts operate in both health and disease .
Cells contain a large number of proteins that control the activity of genes in response to various signals and changes in their environment . Often these proteins work together in groups called complexes . In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , one of these complexes is called DOMINO . The DOMINO complex alters gene activity by interacting with other proteins called histones which influence how the genes are packaged and accessed within the cell . DOMINO works in two separate ways . First , it can replace certain histones with other variants that regulate genes differently . Second , it can modify histones by adding a chemical marker to them , which alters how they interact with genes . It was not clear how DOMINO can do both of these things and how that is controlled; but it was known that cells can make two different forms of the central component of the complex , called DOM-A and DOM-B , which are both encoded by the same gene . Scacchetti et al . have now studied fruit flies to understand the activities of these forms . This revealed that they do have different roles and that gene activity in cells changes if either one is lost . The two forms operate as part complexes with different compositions and only DOM-A includes the TIP60 enzyme that is needed to modify histones . As such , it seems that DOM-B primarily replaces histones with variant forms , while DOM-A modifies existing histones . This means that each form has a unique role associated with each of the two known behaviors of this complex . The presence of two different DOMINO complexes is common to flies and , probably , other insects . Yet , in other living things , such as mammals and yeast , their two roles are carried out by protein complexes originating from two distinct genes . This illustrates a concept called convergent evolution , where different organisms find different solutions for the same problem . As such , these findings provide an insight into the challenges encountered through evolution and the diverse solutions that have developed . They will also help us to understand the ways in which protein activities can adapt to different needs over evolutionary time .
Motor nerves are like electrical wires that connect our spinal cord to the muscles in our body . These nerves communicate with muscles across a connection called the neuromuscular junction . To first form a neuromuscular junction , the motor nerves and muscles each produce molecular cues that tell each other to do their part to build a connection . Beta-catenin in the muscle is known to regulate motor nerve development . However , beta-catenin has two different roles: it helps to coordinate whether neighboring cells stick together , and it can regulate which genes are ‘transcribed’ to produce proteins . It was not known which of these roles is necessary for forming neuromuscular junctions . Wu , Barik et al . now investigate this question by creating mice with mutant forms of beta-catenin in their muscles . Some mice had muscle beta-catenin that could not help cells stick together , and others had beta-catenin that could not control gene transcription . Only mutations that affected the ability of beta-catenin to control transcription caused abnormalities in the neuromuscular junction . However , these problems could be fixed by adding either normal beta-catenin or the mutant form that cannot help cells stick together . Wu , Barik et al . then used molecular tools to explore which genes are turned on by beta-catenin . The experiments showed that beta-catenin causes muscle fibers to produce a protein called Slit2—a developmental cue that controls where neurons grow . Furthermore , the neuromuscular junction defects found in mice without beta-catenin in their muscles could be reduced by making the muscle fibers produce more Slit2 . However , not all defects in beta-catenin mutant mice are rescued by Slit2 . Future research is needed to identify other beta-catenin-controlled signals and to determine whether such a pathway is altered in neuromuscular disorders .
The intestines , liver , and skin are all examples of organs that perform specific functions . Organs are comprised of tissues , which are themselves made up of cells . Epithelial tissue is one of the four basic types of tissue found in animals , and it occurs in almost every organ in the body . For example , epithelial tissue makes up the outermost layer of the skin , and the lining of the lungs and the intestines; the cells in epithelial tissues are attached to one another via ‘adhesion molecules’ . Organs and tissues need to be maintained throughout life in order for them to work properly . Epithelial cells in particular are very short-lived and must be constantly replaced . If epithelial tissue is cut or damaged in any way , the surrounding healthy epithelial cells must work together to repair the wound and restore the tissue's integrity . These processes require individual epithelial cells to communicate with one another . While chemical signals provide one means of cell-to-cell communication , cells also sense and respond to the physical presence of surrounding cells . In adults , organs and tissues generally do not change shape or size; as such there is a tightly balanced exchange of mechanical forces between the individual cells . Damage to the tissue causes a detectable change in these mechanical forces , which is sensed by nearby healthy epithelial cells and causes them to work towards healing the wound . While the importance of mechanical forces in maintaining tissue integrity is widely recognized , there were few tools to study these forces; this meant that mechanical communication through cell–cell adhesion sites was not well understood . Now Ng , Besser et al . describe the development and use of a new method for measuring and mapping the exchange of mechanical forces at cell–cell adhesion sites . Changes in the strength of the forces exchanged between cells could be measured across clusters of multiple cells or for specific parts of individual cells . Ng , Besser et al . found that when an epithelial cell in a cluster started to divide to form two new cells , the cell exerted less mechanical force on its neighboring cells . Ng , Besser et al . found that the forces exerted between cells were strongest when there was more of an adhesion molecule called E-cadherin in the cell surface membrane at the cell–cell adhesion sites . The opposite was also true , as these forces were weakest at cell–cell adhesion sites with fewer E-cadherin molecules . The new method and findings will now help to guide future studies into how mechanical forces are transmitted between living cells .
Huntington’s disease is an inherited disorder that occurs in adulthood and sometimes in children . It causes progressive damage to the brain and people with the condition develop memory loss , movement difficulties , confusion , and other symptoms of mental decline . Eventually , the disease leads to death . Mutations in the gene that encodes a protein called huntingtin cause Huntington’s disease . Individuals who inherit just one copy of the mutated gene develop the condition . No treatments currently exist that can slow or stop disease progression . Genetic and molecular studies are beginning to shed light on how mutations in the gene encoding huntingtin cause the disease . Normally , the protein has a section near its tail end made up of the amino acid glutamine repeated around 23 times . Mutations that increase the number of glutamines to more than 38 cause Huntington’s disease . The more extra glutamines there are in this region of the protein , the earlier in life the disease symptoms begin . But it was not clear how these extra glutamines near the tail of huntingtin affect the structure and behavior of a protein that is more than 3 , 000 amino acids long . Now , Vijayvargia et al . have revealed why the tail end of huntingtin is so important . Several biophysical methods were used to determine the three-dimensional structure of the huntingtin protein . These methods revealed that the protein folds up into a hollow sphere and that its tail end is able to interact with the entire length of the protein and physically touches its opposite end . To see this in more detail , Vijayvargia et al . used another experimental technique called crosslinking mass spectrometry to confirm which parts of the huntingtin protein are in close contact with each other . Together with the structural data , these experiments suggest that the stretch of glutamines is in the position to bring about subtle , but widespread , changes throughout the huntingtin protein . That is to say , that having more glutamines slightly changes the curve of the sphere and alters the way different parts of the protein interact . Together the new findings explain why mutations that alter the tail of huntingtin affect the rest of the protein . Further work will now aim to provide a more-detailed structure of the huntingtin protein and to investigate what other roles of huntingtin are affected by the increased number of glutamines in the protein’s tail . These insights may help scientists understand how the mutated protein causes brain decline .
The cells of nearly all organisms need iron as this metal plays an important role in a wide range of biological processes . However , iron can also trigger the formation of harmful molecules that can damage cells . It is therefore crucial that the amount of iron in cells is tightly controlled and that any extra iron is safely stored away . Most of the iron in the body is stored within a protein called ferritin , which is then broken down to release iron as it is needed , in a process known as ferritinophagy . Cells use several systems to break down proteins , one of which , called autophagy , has been linked to ferritinophagy . During autophagy , a bubble-like structure called an autophagosome engulfs proteins that need to be removed and delivers them to a compartment in the cell where they can be broken down . In 2014 , researchers showed that a protein called NCOA4 on the surface of autophagosomes targets ferritin for destruction . When iron levels are high in the cell , the amount of NCOA4 on the autophagosomes is low . This leads to fewer ferritin molecules being broken down . In contrast , low iron levels lead to an increase of NCOA4 on autophagosomes , which promotes ferritinophagy and increases the amount of iron in the cell . Now , Mancias , Vaites et al—including several of the researchers involved in the 2014 work—investigate the role of NCOA4 in ferritinophagy in more detail . Biochemical experiments revealed that a region of NCOA4 directly interacts with a particular subunit of ferritin and this interaction is necessary to deliver ferritin to autophagosomes . Mancias , Vaites et al . then used laboratory grown-cells to investigate why the amount of NCOA4 changes in response to the amount of iron in the cell . The experiments show the amount of NCOA4 varies depending on whether it interacts with another protein called HERC2 , which targets proteins for destruction by a structure called the proteasome . HERC2 only binds to NCOA4 when iron levels are high , which leads to NCOA4 being broken down by the proteasome . When iron levels are low , HERC2 does not interact with NCOA4 . The presence of more NCOA4 then leads to more ferritinophagy , and so increases the amount of iron in the cell . Mancias , Vaites et al . also found that red blood cells , which depend highly on iron , do not develop properly in zebrafish that have lower amounts of the NCOA4 protein . Further work is needed to see whether NCOA4 is also important for the development of other cells and tissues .
Part of the brain called the lateral prefrontal cortex has a critical role in many of the processes seen as hallmarks of human cognition , such as reasoning , planning and problem-solving . Individuals with damage to the lateral prefrontal cortex are disorganized and easily distracted , and may show behaviors that are inappropriate for their context . However , the involvement of the lateral prefrontal cortex in such a wide range of processes makes it difficult to study . This in turn presents a significant roadblock to a full understanding of cognition and human intelligence . Of particular interest is whether the lateral prefrontal cortex has a hierarchical organization wherein a region coordinates the roles of other regions , much like the chief executive of a company . Therefore , Nee and D’Esposito set out to map how the lateral prefrontal cortex is organized , and how its different regions communicate with each other to support complex cognition . Brain imaging revealed that the rear ( posterior ) part of the lateral prefrontal cortex processes an individual’s current situation , while the front ( anterior ) prepares for future situations . Areas in the middle process both types of information . These central areas appear to be highly influential as they have stronger connections to the anterior and posterior regions than vice versa . In cognitively demanding situations , the middle areas receive input from both anterior regions ( potentially about future needs ) and posterior regions ( potentially about current needs ) . By combining the two sets of information , the middle areas can select behaviors that take into account both present circumstances and longer-term goals . With this strategic overview , the middle areas of the lateral prefrontal cortex are well positioned to play the part of the brain’s chief executive . Future experiments should test whether the interactions observed between the different regions of the lateral prefrontal cortex are essential for complex planning and thinking . Additional work in animals would improve our understanding of the mechanisms underlying these interactions . Finally , studying how these interactions are altered in disorders such as schizophrenia , where the lateral prefrontal cortex shows abnormal activity , might pave the way for more effective treatments .
The outer layer of the mammalian brain the cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory , attention , awareness and thought . While rodents have a smooth cortical surface , the cortex of larger mammals such as primates is organized into folds and furrows . These folds increase the amount of cortex that can fit inside the confines of the skull , and are thought to have allowed the evolution of more advanced thought processes . Mutations in various genes are likely to have contributed to the expansion and folding of the cortex . These mutations may not always have involved changes in the instructions encoded within the genes , but might instead have involved changes in the number of copies of a gene . One plausible candidate gene is TBC1D3 , which is only found in the great apes and is active in the cortex . The chimpanzee genome contains a single copy of TBC1D3 whereas the human genome contains multiple copies . Ju , Hou et al . have now shown that introducing the TBC1D3 gene into mouse embryos triggers changes in the embryonic cortex . Specifically , this gene increases the number of a type of cell called the outer radial glial cell in the cortex . These cells give rise to new neurons , and are usually rare in mice but abundant in the brains of animals with a folded cortex . Additional experiments using samples of human brain tissue confirmed that TBC1D3 is required for the outer radial glial cells to form . The samples were collected from miscarried fetuses with the informed consent of the patients and following approved protocols and ethical guidelines . Finally , introducing the TBC1D3 gene into the mouse genome also gave rise to animals with a folded cortex , rather than their usual smooth brain surface . Further work is now required to identify how TBC1D3 helps to generate outer radial glial cells , and to work out how these cells cause the cortex to expand . Testing the behavior of mice with the TBC1D3 gene could also uncover the links between cortical folding and thought processes .
Plant diseases cause devastating crop losses around the world and threaten the food supply of millions of people . Over time , plants have developed various mechanisms for fighting off infections caused by pests and other pathogens such as viruses and bacteria . When plants become infected they kick their immune system into action by rapidly switching on and off certain genes . They do this by activating the protein NPR1 which regulates the plant’s immune genes . NPR1 is essential for fighting off infections and plants that do not have this protein are highly susceptible to disease . Peculiarly , once the plant has detected an infection it builds resistance by destroying the NPR1 protein . A previous study suggested that plants do this to replace old ‘inactive’ NPR1 with newer versions that can activate the genes needed to stop the disease developing . This process , however , requires a lot of energy that could be re-directed to other aspects of the immune response . Now , Skelly et al . – including one of the researchers involved in the previous study – have explored whether there may be other reasons for why plants destroy the NPR1 protein . Plant cells target NPR1 for destruction by repeatedly tagging it with molecules called ubiquitin to form ubiquitin chains . The length of these chains determines whether a protein is stable and ready for action , or whether it is ready to be destroyed . In experiments with a commonly studied plant known as Arabidopsis thaliana , Skelly et al . found that the length of ubiquitin chains attached to the NPR1 protein could fine-tune its level of activity: short ubiquitin chains activate NPR1 , while longer chains lead to its destruction and shut down the protein . This suggests that the steps leading to the destruction of NPR1 regulate the immune genes needed to fight off disease . This work has uncovered important new components of how plants defend themselves from infection . If these findings translate to crop plants they could inform future agricultural strategies for enhancing the plant’s own defences to increase crop yields , which would provide more food for a rapidly growing population .
Genes contain instructions for processes in cells and therefore their activities must be carefully controlled . The addition of small chemical tags called methyl groups to DNA is one of the many ways by which cells can influence gene activity . These methyl groups can silence genes by altering the DNA so that is more tightly packed within the nucleus of the cell . Virus genes and mobile sections of DNA called transposable elements ( sometimes known as jumping genes ) are also silenced by DNA methylation to keep them from doing harm . In plants , methyl groups can be attached to DNA by proteins that are guided to the DNA by molecules called short interfering ribonucleic acids ( or siRNAs for short ) . Each siRNA is made of a chain of 24 building blocks called nucleotides and is able to bind to matching RNA molecules that are attached to the target DNA . The siRNAs are made from longer RNA molecules in a process that involves trimming by an enzyme called DCL3 . However , it is not clear how long these “precursor” molecules are before DCL3 cuts them down to size . Here , Blevins , Podicheti et al . studied how siRNAs are made in a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana . The experiments show that RNAs containing around 26-45 nucleotides accumulate in cells that lack DCL3 and these cells are unable to make 24 nucleotide long siRNAs . Furthermore , the purified DCL3 enzyme can cut these precursor RNAs to make the siRNAs . Because the precursors are relatively short , the experiments suggest that DCL3 only cuts each precursor RNA once when making siRNAs . Blevins , Podicheti et al . also show that the siRNA precursors are made by a partnership of two RNA synthesizing enzymes . Therefore , a challenge for the future will be to understand exactly how they work together .
It can take several months , or even years , for the brain of a young animal to develop and refine the complex neural networks which underpin cognitive abilities such as memory , planning , and decision making . While the properties that support these functions have been well-documented , less is known about how they emerge during development . Domínguez , Ma , Yu et al . therefore set out to determine when exactly these properties began to take shape in mice , using lightweight nets of electrodes to record brain activity in sleeping newborn pups . The nets were designed to avoid disturbing the animals or damaging their fragile brains . The recordings showed that patterns of brain activity similar to those seen in adults emerged during the first couple of weeks after birth . Just before , however , the brains of the pups went through a brief period of reduced activity: this lull seemed to mark a transition from an immature to a more mature mode of operation . After this pause , neurons in the mouse brains showed coordinated patterns of firing reminiscent of those seen in adults . By monitoring the brains of human babies using scalp sensors , Domínguez , Ma , Yu et al . showed that a similar transition also occurs in infants during their first few months of life , suggesting that brains may mature via a process retained across species . Overall , the relative lull in activity before transition may mark when neural networks gain mature properties; in the future , it could therefore potentially be used to diagnose and monitor individuals with delayed cognitive development .
Malaria is an infectious disease that is estimated to kill more than half a million people every year , mostly young children in Africa . It is spread by mosquitos that are infected with Plasmodium parasites that attack red blood cells in the human body . Plasmodium falciparum , the species that is responsible for most of these deaths , causes malaria by entering red blood cells and releasing antigens that travel to the surface of the cells , where they change the adhesion properties . This causes the infected red blood cells to accumulate in small blood vessels , surface capillaries or the brain , which can have severe consequences for the person infected . P . falciparum is particularly dangerous because of its ability to vary the antigens displayed on the cell surface: this process , known as antigenic variation , helps to maintain infections for extended periods of time by allowing the antigens to stay one step ahead of the immune system ( a process known as immune escape ) . The origins of antigenic variation lie in the fact that each P . falciparum genome has a repertoire of between 50 and 60 var genes that code for the variability of a major antigen that is responsible for immune escape in malaria . Molecular sequencing has shown that local parasite populations contain thousands of different types of var genes: hence , meiotic recombination in the mosquito can create a vast number of combinations of var repertoires . Artzy-Randrup et al . have developed a computational model of this highly diverse and complex system to address the following question: is a local pathogen population composed of largely random and ephemeral repertoires of these genes , or is it structured into independently circulating strains ? Their model goes beyond previous models by including interactions within the local host population that arise as a result of indirect competition between different strains of the pathogen for available hosts: this competition is influenced by the history of infection and , therefore , by the patterns of immunity within the host population . Previous models included within-host processes but not these higher , local population-level interactions . The model simulates the dynamics of all the unique combinations of var genes in a population of hosts , and shows that even with high rates of reproduction , the parasite population self-organizes into a limited number of coexisting strains: the distinct var repertoires of these strains only weakly overlap , suggesting that the immune response of the host population has been partitioned into distinct niches . By investigating genetic variation at both antigenic sites and regions of the genome that do not code for antigens , Artzy-Randrup et al . suggest that immune selection—the selection imposed on var repertoires by the build up of specific immunity at the population level—plays a central role in structuring parasite diversity . The new model should lead to a better understanding of the epidemiology of Plasmodium and other pathogens that work in similar ways , including Trypanosoma brucei ( sleeping sickness ) , Borellia burgdorferi ( Lyme disease ) and Giardia lamblia ( gastroenteritis ) , and help with global efforts to eliminate malaria and other diseases .
Shigella is a highly infectious group of bacteria that attack the human digestive tract , causing severe and often deadly diarrhoea , especially in children . There is currently no vaccine to protect against the disease , and some strains are also now resistant to antibiotics . People get infected by eating or drinking contaminated foods and water . After passing through the stomach , Shigella invades and then multiplies in the lining of the intestine , eventually causing tissue damage and irritation . During this process , Shigella ‘hides’ from its host’s immune system by blocking how intestinal cells respond to infection . Normally , infected cells send out chemical signals that act like a call for help , attracting specialised immune cells to clear the infection . In intestinal cells , two proteins called UBC13 and TRAF6 work together to switch on this response . Specifically , TRAF6 needs to bind to UBC13 for the switch to turn on . Like many proteins , UBC13 is formed of thousands of atoms; some of these are organized in ‘functional groups’ , a collection of atoms joined in a specific manner and with special chemical properties . During Shigella infection , the bacteria produce an enzyme that changes a single functional group ( an amino group ) at a specific location within UBC13 for a different one ( an hydroxyl group ) . Previous research showed that this could stop the immune response in intestinal cells , but the mechanism remained unknown . Mohanty et al . therefore set out to determine exactly how a change of so few atoms could have such a dramatic effect . Biochemical studies using purified proteins revealed that Shigella’s alteration to UBC13 did not change its overall structure . However , the altered protein could no longer bind to its partner TRAF6 . Theoretical analysis and computer simulations revealed that the normal binding process relies on a positively charged amino acid ( one of the protein’s building blocks ) in UBC13 and a negatively charged one in TRAF6 being attracted to each other . Shigella’s substitution , however , introduces a second negatively charged amino acid in UBC13 . This ‘steals’ the positively charged amino acid that would normally interact with TRAF6: the electrical attraction between the two proteins is disrupted , and this stops them from binding . The work by Mohanty et al . reveals the exact mechanism Shigella uses to dampen its host’s immune response during infection . In the future , this knowledge could be used to develop more effective drugs that would help control outbreaks of diarrhoea .
The brain processes information through the activity of many different types of neurons . A common assumption is that we can work out the role of each type of neuron by increasing or decreasing its activity experimentally and observing the consequences . Imagine , for example , that increasing the activity of a group of neurons boosts the formation of memories , whereas decreasing their activity has the opposite effect . Can we conclude that the natural role of those neurons is to support memory formation ? This question has become increasingly pertinent in recent years , as advances in molecular genetic techniques such as optogenetics have made it easier to experimentally manipulate the activity of neurons . However , the ease with which these experiments can be done masks how difficult it can be to interpret the results . To test the assumption that dialing a neuron’s activity up or down provides a straightforward readout of its role in the brain , Phillips and Hasenstaub used optogenetics to inactivate two types of neurons in an area of the mouse brain responsible for processing sound . Inactivating each cell type produced different outcomes . The standard way of interpreting these results is to conclude that the neurons must therefore have different , separable roles . However , using optogenetics to increase the activity of the neurons revealed no such differences in the neurons’ roles . Using a computer model , Phillips and Hasenstaub showed that relatively small changes in factors such as the spontaneous activity of the neurons can affect the outcome of the experiments . Under certain circumstances , the two types of neurons respond in the same way to activation and inactivation; under other circumstances , they respond differently . The results presented by Phillips and Hasenstaub remind us that the conclusions we draw about a neuron’s role can be sensitive to how the cell was manipulated . Future studies should address how other aspects of experimental manipulations , such as their timing or pattern , affect the apparent behavior of neurons .
Like an orchestra that relies on the coordinated efforts of its members , the brain depends on its many regions working together to perform tasks such as memorizing a phone number or the name of someone we recently met . Many areas in the brain that are involved in these processes are located far apart , and so performing these tasks efficiently depends on the regions being able to communicate and coordinate information . Rhythmic waves of electrical activity in the brain are considered to be essential to maintain the flow of information . These brain waves occur when many brain cells repeatedly send signals at the same time , and the precise ‘beat’ of the signals might be especially important when performing more complex tasks . In recent years , cheap and safe electrical stimulation has shown promise in being able to influence brain waves . This technique can be used to investigate the importance of precise timing between brain waves and its impact on performing tasks , as well as changes in brain activity that occur when tasks are more complex . For example , is a person’s behaviour affected if electrical stimulation is used to make their brain waves more or less synchronized ? Violante et al . stimulated distant regions of the brain of volunteers and monitored how they performed in tasks with varying difficulty . When these regions were stimulated with the same ‘beat’ to make the brain waves more synchronized , the person performed better in the more difficult tasks . In these tasks , participants had to monitor number sequences , and spot repeated patterns in the remembered information . To better understand this effect Violante et al . performed brain stimulation while collecting brain scans . The scans showed that stimulation at the same ‘beat’ increases brain activity in the regions involved in task performance and changes the pattern of how regions communicate in the brain . This finding suggests that the ‘beat’ of brain waves is important for task performance , and that stimulating the brain externally can alter how regions in the brain communicate . Future studies could extend these findings to patients , particularly those with the kind of damage to their brain that slows the communication between its distant regions . Stimulating these patients’ brains could help bypass the internal delays , and help them to complete everyday tasks more efficiently .
In warm-blooded animals , including chickens and humans , a single embryo can give rise to several separate individuals ( identical twins ) . Some species of armadillos routinely give birth to quadruplets in this way—and in experiments , up to eight identical chick embryos can be produced by cutting one embryo into smaller pieces ( a type of ‘experimental twinning’ ) . This ability of a developing embryo to subdivide into separate individuals ends when the embryo starts to form its first midline structure , called the ‘primitive streak’ . This is the first line of symmetry and defines where the head–tail axis will later develop . The steps that establish the axes of the embryo in birds and mammals , and the factors that prevent further splitting of the embryo to form twins after this point , are only just beginning to be understood . In chick embryos , the production of a protein called cVg1 is the first known step and precedes the development of a line of symmetry . A similar protein is produced in mammalian embryos and both proteins are members of an important family of signalling proteins . Now , Torlopp , Khan et al . have used a combination of techniques to search for other proteins that that control the production of the cVg1 protein . Genes that are active in the region of the embryo that will express cVg1 later in development were identified , both in normal embryos and during the process of experimental twinning . This search revealed Pitx2 as a protein that acts to switch on the expression of the gene that encodes cVg1 . When the Pitx2 protein is removed , the embryonic axis forms from the opposite side . Next , Torlopp , Khan et al . searched the chicken genome to identify stretches of DNA around the cVg1 gene where proteins that regulate gene expression might bind . Six potential sites were found , including four to which Pitx2 can bind . Further experiments confirmed that two of these regulatory sequences encourage the expression of the cVg1 gene at its correct position in the embryo . Pitx2 and related proteins were known to be involved with the development of left–right symmetry later in development; the findings of Torlopp , Khan et al . reveal , unexpectedly , that these proteins are also involved in first establishing the position at which the midline of the embryo will arise . It remains unclear what prevents most embryos from forming twins . But Torlopp , Khan et al . 's findings could help to explain some strange observations , made long ago , about left–right asymmetry in identical twins . For example , they could help explain why one of the twins in an identical twin pair is more likely to be left-handed than an individual in the general population , and why the direction of whorls of hair on the back of the head is often mirrored between identical twins .
Fruit flies are attracted to the smell of rotting fruit , and use it to guide them to nearby food sources . However , this task is made more challenging by the fact that the distribution of scent or odor molecules in the air is constantly changing . Fruit flies therefore need to cope with , and exploit , this variation if they are to use odors as cues . Odor molecules bind to receptors on the surface of nerve cells called olfactory sensory neurons , and trigger nerve impulses that travel along these cells . The olfactory sensory neurons are connected to other cells called projection neurons that in turn relay information to the higher centers of the brain . While many studies have investigated how fruit flies can distinguish between different odors , less is known about how animals can use variation in the strength of an odor to guide them towards its source . Kim et al . have now addressed this question by devising a method for delivering precise quantities of odors in controlled patterns to fruit flies , and then measuring the responses of olfactory sensory neurons and projection neurons . These experiments revealed that olfactory sensory neurons—which are found mainly in the flies' antennae—responded most strongly whenever an odor changed rapidly in strength , and showed relatively little response to constant odors . An independent study by Schulze , Gomez-Marin et al . found that olfactory sensory neurons in fruit fly larvae also respond in a similar way . Kim et al . also found that the response of the projection neurons depended on both the rate of nerve impulses in the olfactory sensory neurons and on how quickly this rate was changing . But , unlike the olfactory sensory neurons , projection neurons showed their strongest responses immediately after an odor first appeared . Thus , in contrast to organisms such as bacteria and worms , which are highly sensitive to the local concentration gradients of odors , fruit flies instead appear to be more responsive to the sudden appearance of an odor in their environment . Kim et al . suggest that this difference may reflect the fact that for ground-based organisms , local gradients are generally reliable predictors of the location of an odor source . However , for flying insects , continually changing air currents mean that predictable local gradients are less common . Therefore , the ability to detect a hint of an odor before the wind changes is a more useful skill .
The seeds of rice , wheat and other flowering plants store a variety of nutrients , largely in the form of sugars , proteins and oils . These stored reserves provide the main source of calories for humans and livestock all over the world , so they are of major social and economic importance . Seed development is an intricate process . It begins after male sperm cells fuse with female gametes inside the flower . This leads to the formation of the embryo , which will develop into a new plant , and a structure called the endosperm , which nourishes the growing embryo . A protective seed coat surrounds the embryo and endosperm , which develops from certain parts of the parent flower . In order for the seed to develop successfully , these three components have to communicate so they can coordinate their growth . Auxin is a key plant hormone that is needed for plants to grow and develop properly and is necessary for the endosperm to form . Previous research has shown that the endosperm is also required to trigger the formation of the seed coat , but the signal that triggers this process has not yet been identified . Figueiredo et al . now address this question in a small flowering plant called Arabidopsis thaliana . The experiments show that the endosperm produces auxin , which acts as a molecular signal for the seed coat to start forming . Exposing unfertilized flowers to auxin caused a seed coat to form even though the endosperm was absent . This suggests that this hormone alone is sufficient to trigger the formation of the seed coat without any other signals . Further analysis revealed that a protein called AGL62 regulates the movement of auxin to the parts of the flower that give rise to the seed coat . In the absence of AGL62 , the hormone remains trapped in the endosperm and the seed coat fails to develop . The next step following on from this work is to understand how auxin moves from the endosperm to the parts of the flower that form the seed coat .
Bacteria can cause diseases , but they also battle their own microscopic enemies: a group of viruses known as bacteriophages . For instance , the T7 bacteriophage preys on various strains of Escherichia coli , a type of bacteria often found in the human gut . While many E . coli strains are inoffensive or even beneficial to human health , some can be deadly . Finding a way to kill harmful strains while sparing the helpful ones would be a helpful addition to the medicine toolkit . Bacteriophages identify and interact with their specific target through a structure known as the receptor binding protein , or RBP . However , it is still unclear exactly how RBP helps the viruses recognize which type of bacteria to infect . Here , Huss et al . set to map out and modify this structure in T7 bacteriophage so the virus is more efficient and specific about which strain of E . coli it kills . First , the role of each building block in the tip of RBP was meticulously dissected; this generated the knowledge required to genetically engineer a large number of different T7 bacteriophages , each with a slightly variation in their RBP . These viruses were then exposed to various strains of bacteria . Monitoring the bacteriophages that survived and multiplied the most after infecting different strains of E . coli revealed which RBP building blocks are important for efficiency and specificity . This was then confirmed by engineering highly active T7 bacteriophage variants against an E . coli strain that causes urinary tract infections . These findings demonstrate that even small changes to the bacteriophages can make a big difference to their ability to infect their preys . The approaches developed by Huss et al . help to understand exactly how the RBP allows a virus to infect a specific type of bacteria; this could one day pave the way for new therapies that harness those viruses to fight increasingly resistant bacterial infections .
Spoken language is colored by fluctuations in pitch and rhythm . Rather than speaking in a flat monotone , we allow our sentences to rise and fall . We vary the length of syllables , drawing out some , and shortening others . These fluctuations , known as prosody , add emotion to speech and denote punctuation . In written language , we use a comma or a period to signal a boundary between phrases . In speech , we use changes in pitch – how deep or sharp a voice sounds – or in the length of syllables . Having more than one type of cue that can signal emotion or transitions between sentences has a number of advantages . It means that people can understand each other even when factors such as background noise obscure one set of cues . It also means that people with impaired sound perception can still understand speech . Those with a condition called congenital amusia , for example , struggle to perceive pitch , but they can compensate for this difficulty by placing greater emphasis on other aspects of speech . Jasmin et al . showed how the brain achieves this by comparing the brain activities of people with and without amusia . Participants were asked to read sentences on a screen where a comma indicated a boundary between two phrases . They then heard two spoken sentences , and had to choose the one that matched the written sentence . The spoken sentences used changes in pitch and/or syllable duration to signal the position of the comma . This provided listeners with the information needed to distinguish between "after John runs the race , . . . " and "after John runs , the race . . . " , for example . When two brain regions communicate , they tend to increase their activity at around the same time . The brain regions are then said to show functional connectivity . Jasmin et al . found that compared to healthy volunteers , people with amusia showed less functional connectivity between left hemisphere brain regions that process language and right hemisphere regions that process pitch . In other words , because pitch is a less reliable source of information for people with amusia , they recruit pitch-related brain regions less when processing speech . These results add to our understanding of how brains compensate for impaired perception . This may be useful for understanding the neural basis of compensation in other clinical conditions . It could also help us design bespoke hearing aids or other communication devices , such as computer programs that convert text into speech . Such programs could tailor the pitch and rhythm characteristics of the speech they produce to suit the perception of individual users .
While cancer cells typically cannot spread between individuals , there are a few examples of contagious tumours . Remarkably , two examples have emerged in a single species , the Tasmanian devil , a marsupial carnivore . These tumours are known as Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( or DFT1 ) and Devil Facial Tumour 2 ( or DFT2 ) ; both cause tumours round the faces of infected devils . Since it emerged in the 1990s , DFT1 has killed 60–90% of the devil population . Preserving the few remaining healthy devils has been a major challenge for conservationists . This challenge became more urgent in 2014 , when the second contagious cancer , DFT2 , was discovered circulating in the population . Contagious cancers are rare because the immune system usually eliminates cells coming from outside the body . Each healthy cell carries molecules known as the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) that act as a barcode showing where each cell comes from . The immune system uses these molecules to help it tell the difference between the body’s own cells and those from elsewhere . DFT1 can avoid the immune system and spread to new hosts because it has lost MHC . In 2014 , scientists identified a new Tasmanian devil cancer named DFT2 , but it was unclear how this second cancer evades the immune system as it spreads from host to host . Caldwell et al . have now examined the MHC on cells from DFT2 cancers , including cells grown in the laboratory and cells taken from cancer biopsies . Biochemical tests showed that the DFT2 cells do carry MHCs , but that the MHC barcodes of DFT2 are similar to those of the devils infected with the disease . This finding may explain how the cancer can spread undetected in these animals , because the immune system does not recognize it as coming from outside the body . Further analyses also reveal that the cancer cells are slowly evolving to lose their MHCs . This means DFT2 could , with time , become as contagious as DFT1 . These two contagious cancers threaten the future of the Tasmanian devil . As top predators , devils are key to the ecosystem in Tasmania and their preservation is vital . While DFT2 provides a unique opportunity to study an emerging cancer as it develops , this research will also help to protect the devils and may lead to effective vaccines . These results could also reveal how other cancers avoid the immune system and may help to detect them during treatment . In addition , there are many similarities between contagious cancer cells and organ transplants . Understanding the role of MHC in DFT2 could lead to better ways to prevent rejection following transplants .
Sitting in your car , about to drive home after a long day at work , you realize you have no idea which way to go: you recognize where you are right now , and you remember the name of the street your house is on , but you cannot figure out how to get there . This spatial disorientation happens to people with damage to a brain region called the retrosplenial cortex , whose role and inner workings remain poorly understood . Recent evidence has shown that this area contains ‘low-rheobase’ neurons which are not seen anywhere else in the brain , but what do these neurons do ? Brennan , Jedrasiak-Cape , Kailasa et al . decided to explore the role of these neurons , focusing on the brain regions they are connected to . Experiments were conducted in mice using optogenetics , a technique that activates neurons using pulses of light . This revealed that brain areas involved in processing information about direction and position preferentially communicate with low-rheobase neurons rather than with nearby , more standard neurons in the retrosplenial cortex . The way these spatial signals are sent to the low-rheobase neurons allows these cells to ‘calculate’ how fast a mouse is turning its head using only information about which direction the mouse is facing . Essentially , this neuron can turn directional compass-like signals into a gyroscope signal that can track both direction and speed of head movement . These unique neurons may therefore be ideally suited to combine information about direction and space , suggesting that they may have evolved specifically to support spatial navigation . Individuals with Alzheimer’s disease show exactly the same type of spatial disorientation as individuals with direct damage to the retrosplenial cortex . This region is also one of the first to show altered activity in Alzheimer’s disease . Exploring whether these unique retrosplenial neurons and their communication patterns are altered in Alzheimer’s disease models could help to understand and potentially treat this debilitating condition .
Traumatic brain injury can result from direct head concussions , rapid head movements , or a blast wave generated by an explosion . Traumatic brain injury often causes seizures in the short term and is a risk factor for certain dementias , including Alzheimer’s disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy in the long term . A protein called Tau undergoes a series of chemical changes in these dementias that makes it accumulate , form toxic filaments and kill neurons . The toxic abnormal Tau proteins are initially found only in certain regions of the brain , but they spread as the disease progresses . Previous studies in Alzheimer’s disease and other diseases where Tau proteins are abnormal suggest that Tau can spread between neighboring neurons and this can be promoted by neuron activity . However , scientists do not know whether similar mechanisms are at work following traumatic brain injury . Given that seizures are very common following traumatic brain injury , could they be partly responsible for promoting dementia ? To investigate this , researchers need animal models in which they can measure neural activity associated with traumatic brain injury and observe the spread of abnormal Tau proteins . Alyenbaawi et al . engineered zebrafish so that their Tau proteins would be fluorescent , making it possible to track the accumulation of aggregated Tau protein in the brain . Next , they invented a simple way to perform traumatic brain injury on zebrafish larvae by using a syringe to produce a pressure wave . After this procedure , many of the fish exhibited features consistent with progression towards dementia , and seizure-like behaviors . The results showed that post-traumatic seizures are linked to the spread of aggregates of abnormal Tau following traumatic brain injury . Alyenbaawi et al . also found that anticonvulsant drugs can lower the levels of abnormal Tau proteins in neurons , preventing cell death , and could potentially ameliorate dementias associated with traumatic brain injury . These drugs are already being used to prevent post-traumatic epilepsy , but more research is needed to confirm whether they reduce the risk or severity of Tau-related neurodegeneration .
People differ a lot from one another in terms of their personality , behaviour and lifestyle . This individuality is attributed to the different regions in the brain , and the strength of communication between them . The connectivity pattern between these areas is thought to be as unique as a fingerprint . If the connections are weak or disrupted it can play a role in conditions such as schizophrenia , depression or Alzheimer’s disease . It is thought that the strength of the connection depends on how strongly the nerve cells in these regions communicate . But are these individual differences solely caused by different strengths of connection , or could other factors contribute to them ? Now , Bijsterbosch et al . found that the size , shape and exact position of the brain regions was also strongly linked to the different behaviours of individuals . The study used brain scans , behavioural tests and questionnaires from a large database about lifestyle choices and demographics , to analyse the relationship between the different brain features of healthy individuals . The results showed that the variations in the brain regions were linked to many behavioural factors including intelligence , life satisfaction , drug use and aggression problems . Moreover , Bijsterbosch et al . showed that the existing methods for estimating the strength of connection between brain regions could reveal more about the spatial layout of these regions than the actual connection strength between them . This suggests that new approaches are needed to properly evaluate the strength of the connections . Some psychiatric and neurological diseases may be associated with changes in size and position of the different regions in the brain . In future , the findings of this study could be applied to individuals affected by such conditions , to see if the location of a region could be used as a diagnostic indicator .
The muscles that allow animal’s to move are built predominantly of cells called myofibers . Like other specialized cell types , these myofibers develop via a regulated set of events called differentiation . In adults , this phenomenon occurs when muscles regenerate after an injury , and new myofibers differentiate from so-called satellite cells that already reside within the muscles . Differentiation is regulated at the genetic level , and the development of myofibers relies on the activation of muscle-specific genes . A gene’s expression is typically controlled via a nearby regulatory region of DNA called a promoter that can be recognized by various molecular machines made from protein complexes . In most adult tissues , such regulatory machineries contain a complex called TFIID . Previously it was reported that the TFIID complex was eliminated from cells during muscle differentiation , and that an alternative protein complex called TBP2/TAF3 recognizes and regulates the promoters of muscle-specific genes . However , Malecova et al . have now discovered that TFIID is actually present , albeit at reduced amounts , in differentiated muscles and that it drives the activation of muscle-specific genes during differentiation . Further experiments also showed that the TBP2 protein is not required for differentiation of muscle cells or for the regeneration of injured muscles , and is actually absent in muscle cells . Further studies are now needed to explore how the TFIID-containing complex works with other regulatory protein complexes that are known to help make muscle-specific genes accessible to TFIID . It will also be important to study the relationship between the down-regulation of TFIID components and the activation of muscle-specific genes that typically occurs in mature myofbers . Together these efforts will allow the various aspects of gene regulation to be integrated , which will help provide a more complete understanding of the process of muscle differentiation .
From riding a bike to reaching for a cup of coffee , all skilled actions rely on precise connections between the sensory and motor areas of the brain . While sensory areas receive and analyse input from the senses , motor areas plan and trigger muscle contractions . Precisely adjusting the connections between these and other areas enables us to learn new skills , and it also helps us to relearn skills lost as a result of brain injury or stroke . About 70 years ago , a psychologist named Donald Hebb came up with an idea for how this process might occur . He proposed that whenever two neurons are active at the same time , the connection between them becomes stronger . This idea , that ‘cells that fire together , wire together’ , became known as Hebb’s rule . Many studies have since shown that Hebb’s rule can explain changes in the strength of connections between pairs of neurons . But can it also explain how connections between entire brain regions become stronger or weaker ? New results show that it can . The data were obtained using a technique called optogenetics , in which viruses are used to introduce genes for light-sensitive proteins into neurons . Shining light onto the brain will then activate any cells within that area that contain the resulting proteins . Yazdan-Shahmorad , Silversmith et al . used this technique to activate small regions of either sensory or motor brain tissue in live macaque monkeys . Doing so strengthened the overall connectivity between the two areas . The effects were more variable at the level of smaller brain regions , with some connections becoming weaker rather than stronger . However , Yazdan-Shahmorad , Silversmith et al . show that Hebb’s rule explains most of the observed changes . Many neurological and psychiatric disorders stem from abnormal brain connectivity . Simple forms of brain stimulation are already used to treat certain neurological disorders , such as Parkinson’s disease . Stimulating the brain to induce specific changes in connectivity may ultimately enable us to leverage the brain’s natural learning mechanisms to cure , instead of just treat , these conditions .
Vision depends on the brain as well as on the eyes . Almost all information from the eyes travels to a brain region called the primary visual cortex . This large expanse of tissue at the back of the brain contains a detailed map of the visual world . Adults who suffer damage to part of the primary visual cortex become blind in the corresponding area of visual space , a phenomenon known as cortical blindness . Yet , adults with cortical blindness can also experience ‘blindsight’: they can still point correctly to bright , moving images , even though they claim they cannot see them . One of the roles of primary visual cortex is to act as a gateway to other , ‘higher’ visual areas of the brain . These regions process the input they receive from the primary visual cortex to generate a rich and coherent visual representation . But how do adults with blindsight , in whom the major gateway from the eyes to higher visual areas has been damaged , still manage to respond to visual stimuli ? By chance , Bridge et al . discovered a monkey whose unusual brain anatomy provides clues as to why this is possible . The monkey behaved much like its peers , leaping between the perches of its enclosure with ease . But when Bridge et al . tried to train the animal on a visual task , it proved unable to learn like the other monkeys . A brain scan revealed that it had almost no primary visual cortex , probably because of an abnormality that arose early in development . Further studies of the monkey’s brain showed that the other structures involved in visual processing were in their usual places and were of normal size . Connections from the eyes to higher visual areas that bypass the primary visual cortex were normal , but were no stronger than in other monkeys . In fact , areas beyond the primary visual cortex showed no fundamental changes in how they processed visual information . The brain of this monkey had thus adapted to early loss of the major gateway from the eyes to higher visual cortex . Visual areas of the brain beyond the primary visual cortex continued to work as normal , helping to minimize vision loss . Because the visual brain differs little between primates , this discovery could also benefit patients with blindsight . It suggests that targeting higher visual areas could further improve vision in patients with damage to the primary visual cortex .
The immune system defends us from attacks by viruses , bacteria and other microbes . One way that the immune system can identify these invaders is by detecting genetic material from the microbes . Like us , many of these microbes have genetic material made of a two-stranded molecule called DNA . A protein called IFI16 is an important sensor in immune cells that can bind to foreign DNA , but not to the DNA of the host . If the ability to discriminate between host and foreign DNA is lost , then immune cells start to attack the body’s own tissues , which can lead to severe “autoimmune” diseases . However , it is not clear how IFI16 and other sensor proteins are able to tell foreign and host DNA apart . DNA in host cells is packaged in particular proteins to form structures called nucleosomes that can make it difficult for other proteins to bind to the DNA . When foreign DNA enters the cell , IFI16 promotes the formation of nucleosomes on these molecules , but the nucleosomes are further apart than those in host DNA , which leaves longer stretches of “exposed” DNA between the nucleosomes . In 2014 , a group of researchers reported that multiple molecules of IFI16 associate with each other and form clusters on exposed foreign DNA . Here , Stratmann , Morrone et al . – including some of the researchers from the earlier work – investigated how IFI16 selectively binds to foreign DNA using a combination of biochemical and single-molecule techniques . The experiments show that to start with , a few molecules of IFI16 bind to stretches of exposed foreign DNA and then move along the DNA strands . As more molecules of IFI16 bind to this DNA , they bump into each other and start to form clusters that eventually become immobile . Further experiments show that the more tightly packed nucleosomes in host DNA molecules act as a barrier to IFI16 cluster formation because they interfere with the ability of the protein to move along the DNA . Stratmann , Morrone et al . ’s findings show that IFI16 can only trigger immune responses when it binds to stretches of exposed DNA that are long enough to allow the assembly of IFI16 clusters . The next challenge will be to see whether other DNA sensors employ similar strategies to detect foreign DNA .
Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease affect millions of people worldwide . In many of these diseases , toxic proteins accumulate in the brain and build up as small ‘plaques’ in the gaps , or synapses , that cells called neurons communicate across . Eventually , the plaques prevent the neurons signaling to each other correctly , leading to problems such as memory loss . Identifying the proteins present in plaques is technically challenging , partly because the plaques are very small . Hadley , Rakhit et al . have now developed a new method called spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( or STOMP ) that can collect proteins from small areas of cells . In this method , plaques are identified under a light microscope , and their contents are attached to a molecule called a photo-affinity tag using lasers . The photo-tagged proteins are then pulled out using beads that specifically bind to the photo-affinity tag . The proteins can then be identified using a well-established method called mass spectrometry . Hadley , Rakhit et al . used STOMP to analyze plaques present in the brains of mice that develop similar symptoms to those seen in humans with Alzheimer's disease . This revealed that these plaques contain more than 50 different proteins , some of which had not previously been found in plaques . In particular , several proteins from the ‘presynaptic’ neuron that sends signals across the synapse were found in the plaques . However , no proteins from the receiving ( ‘postsynaptic’ ) neuron on the other side of the synapse were present in the plaque . Fixed human brain tissue is more difficult to analyze than mouse samples because it is modified for storage . In spite of these issues , Hadley , Rakhit et al . successfully also used STOMP to identify the proteins in human plaques . STOMP can be used to identify the proteins present in any area of a cell and thus has the potential to be widely used by scientists , not just those studying plaques .
For the nervous system to become wired up correctly , neurons within the developing embryo must project over long distances to form connections with remote targets . They do this by lengthening their axons—the ‘cables’ along which electrical signals flow—and some axons in adult humans can grow to be more than 1 metre long . This type of long-range pathfinding activity is particularly common for neurons that control movement , as many of these neurons must establish connections with muscles that are some distance away from the brain . For example , motor neurons in the brainstem form connections with muscles in the face to control facial expressions , while motor neurons in parts of the spinal cord project to muscles in the limbs . Multiple signaling pathways tell the developing axons which direction to grow en route to their final targets . Now , Hua et al . have shown that an evolutionarily conserved protein called Frizzled3 is also involved in this process . In mouse embryos that lacked Frizzled3 , the motor nerves that control breathing and limb movements were thinner than those in normal mice . In the mutant animals , many motor axons failed to form connections with their targets . Instead , these axons came to an abrupt halt midway along their intended paths and the neurons from which they originated died soon afterwards . These experiments support the idea that developing neurons are programmed to die unless their axons progress on the appropriate schedule . As well as increasing our knowledge of the networks of connections that form within the developing mammalian nervous system , the work of Hua et al . provides new insights into some of the molecular mechanisms by which these connections are established .
Much of what is known about genetics has come from studying only a tiny fraction of the genome’s sequence , the part that primarily codes for proteins . But the genome has many other features outside these regions , some of which play an important biological role . Transposable elements – repetitive sequences that are present in many species – make up around half of the mouse genome . They are ‘selfish’ elements , in that the spread of them within the genome does not necessarily benefit the host organism . But sometimes transposable elements can be ‘domesticated’ , and used to the host’s advantage . For example , transposable elements can generate new genes . In other cases , their non-coding sequences can regulate the activity of other nearby genes or even those elsewhere in the genome . It remains unclear to what extent transposable elements have shaped genome regulation throughout evolution . One idea is that the spread of transposable elements can help to establish large regulatory networks – whereby many genes are collectively regulated to produce a specific output . But it has not been fully explored how effective transposable elements are at regulating gene expression . Now , Todd et al . investigate whether particular transposable elements , that are suspected to boost the activity of other genes , are essential for normal gene expression in early mouse development . Todd et al . genetically edited stem cells from the inner and outer layer of the early mouse embryo to find transposable elements that promote gene expression . Whilst some transposable elements were found to be important for gene regulation , not all of the candidates tested were needed to maintain expression levels . To widen the search , several transposable elements were turned off simultaneously by compacting specific stretches of DNA so that they could no longer be activated . When 34 transposable elements were inactivated at once , it emerged that only three transposable elements had a significant impact on gene expression . These findings suggest that whether or not a given transposable element regulates gene expression cannot be predicted solely from profiling the structure and sequence of the genome . This highlights why it is important to interrogate the effect transposable elements have ona gene's role within a cell . Transposable elements are largely disregarded in genomics due to technical difficulties in analysing these repetitive stretches of DNA . But characteristic variations within a population may in part be driven by differences in these parts of the genome , which may also be implicated in diseases such as cancer . Identifying which transposable elements are important for driving gene expression , and linking their actions to specific traits could aid the discovery of important genetic variants .
Plants rely on carbon for their growth and survival: in a process called photosynthesis , they use energy from sunlight to convert carbon dioxide and water into carbohydrates and oxygen gas . The chemical reactions that make up photosynthesis are powered by a chain of enzymes , and plants must ensure that these enzymes—which are in the leaves of the plant—are supplied with enough carbon dioxide and water . Carbon dioxide from the atmosphere enters plants through pores in their leaves , but water must be carried up the plant from the roots . The type of photosynthesis used by about 90% of flowering plant species—including tomatoes and rice—is called C3 photosynthesis . The first step in this process begins with an enzyme called RuBisCO , which reacts with carbon dioxide and a substance called RuBP to form molecules that contain three carbon atoms ( hence the name C3 photosynthesis ) . In a hot climate , however , a plant can lose a lot of water through the pores in its leaves: closing these pores allows the plant to retain water , but this also reduces the supply of carbon dioxide . Under these circumstances this causes problems because RuBisCO uses oxygen to break down RuBP , instead of creating sugars , when carbon dioxide is not readily available . To prevent this process , which wastes a lot of energy and resources , some plants—including maize , sugar cane and many other agricultural staples—have evolved an alternative process called C4 photosynthesis . Although it is more complex than C3 photosynthesis , and required many changes to be made to the structure of leaves , C4 photosynthesis has evolved on more than 60 different occasions . In C4 plants , the mesophyll—the region that is associated with the capture of carbon dioxide by RuBisCO in C3 plants—contains high levels of an alternative enzyme called PEPC that converts carbon dioxide molecules into an acid that contains four carbon atoms . To avoid carbon dioxide being captured by both enzymes , C4 plants evolved to relocate RuBisCO from the mesophyll to a second set of cells in an airtight structure known as the bundle sheath . The four-carbon acids produced by PEPC diffuse to the cells in the bundle sheath , where they are broken down into carbon dioxide molecules , and photosynthesis then proceeds as normal . This process allows photosynthesis to continue when the level of carbon dioxide in the leave is low because the plant has closed its pores to retain water . Since C4 plants grow faster than C3 plants , and also require less water , plant biologists would like to introduce certain C4 traits into C3 crop plants . To help with this process , Williams , Johnston et al . have used computational methods to explore how C4 photosynthesis evolved from ancestral C3 plants . This involved investigating the prevalence of 16 traits that are common to C4 plants in a total of 73 species that undergo C3 or C4 photosynthesis ( including 37 species that possess characteristics of both C3 and C4 ) . Williams , Johnston et al . then went on to produce a new mathematical model that represents evolutionary processes as pathways across a multi-dimensional “landscape” . The model shows that traits can be acquired in various orders , and that C4 photosynthesis evolved through a number of independent pathways . Some traits that evolved early in the transitions to C4 photosynthesis influenced how evolution proceeded , providing “foundations” upon which further changes evolved . Interestingly , the structure of the leaf itself appeared to change before any of the photosynthetic enzymes changed . This led Williams , Johnston et al . to conclude that climate change—in particular , the declines in carbon dioxide levels that occurred in prehistoric times—was probably not responsible for the original evolution of C4 photosynthesis . Nevertheless , these results could help with efforts to adapt important C3 crop plants to on-going changes in our climate .
Living organisms need energy to stay alive; in cells , this energy is supplied in the form of a small molecule called adenosine triphosphate , or ATP , a nucleotide that stores energy in the bonds between its three phosphate groups . ATP is present in all living cells and is often referred to as the energy currency of the cell , because it can be easily stored and transported to where it is needed . However , it is unknown why cells rely so heavily on ATP when a highly similar nucleotide called guanosine triphosphate , or GTP , could also act as an energy currency . There are several examples of proteins that originally used GTP and have since evolved to use ATP , but it is not clear why this switch occurred . One suggestion is that ATP is the more readily available nucleotide in the cell . To test this hypothesis , Updegrove , Harke et al . studied a protein that helps bacteria transition into spores , which are hardier and can survive in extreme environments until conditions become favorable for bacteria to grow again . In modern bacteria , this protein uses ATP to provide energy , but it evolved from an ancestral protein that used GTP instead . First , Updegrove , Harke et al . engineered the protein so that it became more similar to the ancestral protein and used GTP instead of ATP . When this was done , the protein gained the ability to break down GTP and release energy from it , but it no longer performed its enzymatic function . This suggests that both the energy released and the source of that energy are important for a protein’s activity . Further analysis showed that the modern version of the protein has evolved to briefly hold on to ATP after releasing its energy , which did not happen with GTP in the modified protein . Updegrove , Harke et al . also discovered that the levels of GTP in a bacterial cell fall as it transforms into a spore , while ATP levels remain relatively high . This suggests that ATP may indeed have become the source of energy of choice because it was more available . These findings provide insights into how ATP became the energy currency in cells , and suggest that how ATP is bound by proteins can impact a protein’s activity . Additionally , these experiments could help inform the development of drugs targeting proteins that bind nucleotides: it may be essential to consider the entirety of the binding event , and not just the release of energy .
Leptin is a hormone that keeps us healthy in many ways . It regulates our body weight by reining in our appetite and fine-tuning the energy we burn , and it helps us establish and maintain our fertility . It also participates in brain development . Leptin performs these roles by attaching to specific receptors in nerve cells and relaying relevant information to the brain . Early events can trigger life-long changes in the way our body works , a process called metabolic programming . Leptin is believed to participate in this reprogramming mechanism , but its role remains uncertain . In particular , it is still unclear which leptin-driven changes are permanent , and which ones are reversible . Being able to distinguish between the two types of alterations would help to better grasp the role leptin plays in early development . Here , Ramos-Lobo et al . examined genetically engineered mice born without a working leptin receptor . These animals were impervious to the effects of leptin . Then , once the rodents were adults , they were treated with a drug that restored their leptin receptors , making them sensitive to the hormone again . These experiments revealed that mice without leptin receptors during early life developed obesity , were less able to lose weight and burned less energy . Their reproductive success was also compromised . Finally , the lack of leptin during development caused permanent reduction of the animals’ brains , and changes in the activity of certain genes in the organ . The work by Ramos-Lobo et al . indicates that in mice , lacking leptin sensibility early in life conditions the body to permanently become ‘thrifty’ , burning less energy and making it harder to lose weight . It is rare for humans to be born completely without leptin activity . Yet , having too much or too little food as a baby affects the level of the hormone , or our sensitivity to it: this may permanently change the way our bodies manage energy . Ultimately , learning more about these mechanisms could help us ward off or treat obesity .
Living cells need to be able to detect changes in their environment and respond accordingly . This ability involves signals from outside of the cell triggering changes to the activity inside the cell . Heterotrimeric G proteins are important for this kind of signaling in a wide range of organisms . In animals and fungi , these proteins directly work with a specific class of receptor proteins called G protein-coupled receptors ( or GPCRs for short ) . Plants also have heterotrimeric G proteins , but it remains unclear whether they similiarly work with GPCRs . Plants detect invading microbes by using receptors that are completely different from GPCRs . For example , a receptor called FLS2 from the model plant Arabidopsis senses a telltale protein produced by bacteria , and then passes the signal to another protein called BIK1 to activate the plant’s defenses . Heterotrimeric G proteins are required for this process , but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown . Liang , Ding et al . now show that heterotrimeric G proteins regulate FLS2-controlled defenses by directly interacting with FLS2 and BIK1 . Heterotrimeric G proteins also enhance defenses in at least two different ways . Firstly , in the absence of an infection , heterotrimeric G proteins stabilize the BIK1 protein to ensure that it is ready to respond . Secondly , if FLS2 does detect the telltale bacterial protein , BIK1 marks one of the heterotrimeric G proteins with a phosphate group . This then allows the G protein to boost the activity of another plant enzyme that is vital for defense signaling . In the future , it will be important to work out how activation of FLS2 leads to the activation of heterotrimeric G proteins . Furthermore , heterotrimeric G proteins are likely to regulate additional plant proteins when defenses are activated , and further studies are needed to identify these proteins .
The cycle of day and night sets the pace for the existence of most life on Earth . In response , many organisms have evolved internal biological clocks which are synchronized with the rhythm of light and dark . Thanks to this ‘circadian clock’ , plants and animals can predict the onset of dawn and dusk , and schedule biological processes to specific times of the day . Each cell possesses its own circadian clock , which is formed of a complex network of genes and proteins that get activated along a 24-hour cycle . This raises the question: how do these cells coordinate to create a body clock at the level of the entire organism ? In mammals , this synchronisation happens thanks to a structure in the brain , but much less is known about how this occurs in plants . This is partly because few studies exist that focus on measuring the clocks of individual plant cells . Here , Gould , Domijan et al . monitor the circadian clock of single cells in seedlings of a plant called Arabidopsis thaliana across several days and under constant environmental conditions . To do so , they use time-lapse microscopy and genetic methods to see when and where one of the clock’s core genes is switched on . The results show that , at the level of the plant , Arabidopsis has two waves of clock gene expression , one that goes up and one that goes down the root . In addition , the various parts of the plant have slightly different circadian rhythms – for instance , the tip of the root has a faster clock . Robust clock rhythms are also detected in individual cells across the plant . Clocks in neighbouring cells are found to communicate with each other to keep track of time , which might be contributing to this robustness . Mathematical simulations show that , when the individual clocks interact , they generate patterns of clock activity across the plant , which explains the two waves of gene expression in the root . Plant circadian rhythms control traits that are crucial for agriculture , such as growth , yield , disease resistance and flowering time . Understanding , and ultimately controlling , the intricate cogs of these clocks may one day allow scientists to create better performing crops .
Our ears were not designed for the society our brains created . The World Health Organization estimates that a billion young adults are at risk for hearing problems due to prolonged exposure to high levels of noise . For many people , the first symptoms of hearing loss consist in an inability to follow a single speaker in crowded places such as restaurants . However , when Parthasarathy et al . examined over 100 , 000 records from the Massachusetts Eye and Ear audiology database , they found that around 10% of patients who complained about hearing difficulties were sent home with a clean bill of hearing health . This is because existing tests do not detect common problems related to understanding speech in complex , real-world environments: new tests are needed to spot these hidden hearing disorders . Parthasarathy et al . therefore focused on identifying biological measures that would reflect these issues . Normally , the brain can ‘unmix’ different speakers and focus on one person , but even in the context of normal hearing , some people are better at this than others . Parthasarathy et al pinpointed several behavioral and biological markers which , when combined , could predict most of this variability . This involved , for example , measuring the diameter of the pupil while people are listening to speech in the presence of several distracting voices ( which mirrors how intensively they have to focus on the task ) or measuring the participants’ ability to detect subtle changes in frequency ( which reflects how fast-changing sound elements are encoded early on in the hearing system ) . The findings show that an over-reliance on high-level cognitive processes , such as increased listening effort , coupled with problems in the early processing of certain sound traits , was associated with problems in following a speaker in a busy environment . The biological and behavioral markers highlighted by Parthasarathy et al do not require specialized equipment or marathon sessions to be recorded . In theory , these tests could be implemented into most hospital hearing clinics to give patients and health providers objective data to understand , treat and monitor these hearing difficulties .
The magical twinkling of the night sky is actually the result of imperfections in Earth's atmosphere . Turbulence in the air distorts the light as it passes through , causing it to bend , which blurs the image . To get a clear picture of distant objects , astronomers use a technique called 'adaptive optics' . Deformable mirrors , controlled by computers , bend the light back to correct the distortion . Now , biologists are borrowing the same technique to take a closer look at the blood vessels of the brain . At the moment , functional MRI is one of the most popular imaging techniques for measuring blood flow in the brain . But it can only achieve a resolution of around 1 millimetre , and the tiniest capillaries measure less than a hundredth of a millimetre across . These tiny vessels can be examined surgically , or by injecting dyes into the bloodstream , but these techniques carry a risk . As a result , scientists can only use them in experimental animals . One solution is to look at the vessel network in the back of the eye . The retina is part of the brain and , because the eye is transparent , its blood supply is much easier to see . But imperfections in the eye bend light and blur images of the cells , just like the Earth's atmosphere blurs images of the stars . This is where adaptive optics comes in . Using this technique , it becomes possible to see single red blood cells . Combining adaptive optics with high-speed video could allow us to track cells through the whole network of blood vessels in the eye . At the moment , blood flow measurement techniques either focus on the very big vessels , or the very small ones; they cannot get a complete picture of the whole interconnected system . Now , Joseph et al . have combined adaptive optics , ultrafast imaging , and a new algorithm to view the whole blood vessel network in the eye of a mouse . The new method can automatically measure single blood cells , even when they are moving at their highest possible speed . It can capture the full range of retinal vessels , from the smallest capillaries to the largest arteries and veins . And , by tracking millions of cells at a time , it can reveal how the pressure wave of the blood changes with each beat of the heart . The slightest disruption in blood flow to the brain can cause irreversible damage . So , measuring blood flow is crucial to understanding what happens when things go wrong . This new method is not invasive and uses safe levels of near-infrared light which the retina cannot see , making it safe to use in humans . Joseph et al . have already started their first studies in humans , and the baseline data they have obtained for healthy mice also provides a starting point for comparison with mice with genetic mutations or disease .
Like all plants , crop plants need nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphate to grow . Often these essential elements are in short supply , and so millions of tons of fertiliser are applied to agricultural land each year to maintain crop yields . Another way for plants to gain access to scarce nutrients is to form symbiotic relationships with microorganisms that live in the soil . Plants pass on carbon-containing compounds—such as sugars—to the microbes and , in return , certain fungi provide minerals—such as phosphates—to the plants . Some plants called legumes ( such as peas , beans , and clovers ) can also form relationships with bacteria that convert nitrogen from the air into ammonia , which the plants then use to make molecules such as DNA and proteins . To establish these symbiotic relationships with plants , nitrogen-fixing bacteria release chemical signals that are recognized via receptor proteins , called NFR1 and NFR5 , found on the surface of the plant root cells . These signals trigger a cascade of events that ultimately lead to the plant forming an organ called ‘root nodule’ to house and nourish the nitrogen-fixing bacteria . A similar signalling mechanism is thought to take place during the establishment of symbiotic relationships between plants and certain soil fungi . A plant protein called Symbiosis Receptor-like Kinase ( or SYMRK for short ) that is also located on the root cell surface is required for both bacteria–plant and fungi–plant associations to occur . However , the exact role of this protein in these processes was unclear . Ried et al . have now investigated this by taking advantage of a property of cell surface receptor proteins: if some of these proteins are made in excessive amounts they activate their signalling cascades even when the initial signal is not present . Ried et al . engineered plants called Lotus japonicus to produce high levels of SYMRK , NFR1 , or NFR5 . Each of these changes was sufficient to trigger the plants to develop root nodules in the absence of microbes . Genes associated with the activation of the signalling cascade involved the formation of root nodules were also switched on when each of the three proteins was produced in large amounts . In contrast , only an excess of SYMRK could activate genes related to fungi–plant associations . Ried et al . also found that , while SYMRK can function in the absence of the NFRs , NFR1 and NFR5 need each other to function . These data suggest that the receptor proteins play a key role in the decision between the establishment of an association with a bacterium or a fungus . As an excess of symbiotic receptors caused plants to form symbiotic structures , Ried et al . propose that this strategy could be used to persuade plants that usually do not form symbioses with nitrogen-fixing bacteria to do so . If this is possible , it might lead us to engineer crop plants to form symbiotic interactions with nitrogen-fixing bacteria; this would help increase crop yields and enable crops to be grown in nitrogen-poor environments without the addition of extra fertiliser .
Studying animal behavior can reveal how animals make decisions based on what they sense in their environment , but measuring behavior can be difficult and time-consuming . Computer programs that measure and analyze animal movement have made these studies faster and easier to complete . These tools have also made more advanced behavioral experiments possible , which have yielded new insights about how the brain organizes behavior . Recently , scientists have started using new machine learning tools called deep neural networks to measure animal behavior . These tools learn to measure animal posture – the positions of an animal’s body parts in space – directly from real data , such as images or videos , without being explicitly programmed with instructions to perform the task . This allows deep learning algorithms to automatically track the locations of specific animal body parts in videos faster and more accurately than previous techniques . This ability to learn from images also removes the need to attach physical markers to animals , which may alter their natural behavior . Now , Graving et al . have created a new deep learning toolkit for measuring animal behavior that combines components from previous tools with the latest advances in computer science . Simple modifications to how the algorithms are trained can greatly improve their performance . For example , adding connections between layers , or ‘neurons’ , in the deep neural network and training the algorithm to learn the full geometry of the body – by drawing lines between body parts – both enhance its accuracy . As a result of adding these changes , the new toolkit can measure an animal's pose from previously unseen images with high speed and accuracy , after being trained on just 100 examples . Graving et al . tested their model on videos of fruit flies , zebras and locusts , and found that , after training , it was able to accurately track the animals’ movements . The new toolkit has an easy-to-use software interface and is freely available for other scientists to use and build on . The new toolkit may help scientists in many fields including neuroscience and psychology , as well as other computer scientists . For example , companies like Google and Apple use similar algorithms to recognize gestures , so making those algorithms faster and more efficient may make them more suitable for mobile devices like smartphones or virtual-reality headsets . Other possible applications include diagnosing and tracking injuries , or movement-related diseases in humans and livestock .
Cells of the innate immune system , such as macrophages , are the body’s first line of defense against infection . Macrophages can sense a wide variety of danger signals associated with the presence of infectious microbes , and some of these signals cause macrophages to form protein complexes called inflammasomes inside the cell . Inflammasomes produce molecules that stimulate inflammation and trigger the death of the macrophage . This attracts other immune cells to the infection site to help combat the source of danger . Inflammasome complexes form around an activated receptor molecule called NLRP3 . NLRP3 is activated by a range of danger signals , including those produced by Salmonella bacteria . However , the sequence of events that leads to NLRP3 activation is still not well understood . Sanman et al . have now identified a small molecule that unexpectedly causes the formation of inflammasomes via NLRP3 and so triggers the death of macrophages . Further investigation revealed that this molecule disrupts glycolysis , a process macrophages use to produce energy . The energy imbalance caused by disrupting glycolysis triggers a stress response in macrophages , which ultimately activates the NLRP3 receptor and hence the inflammasome . Sanman et al . then found that Salmonella bacteria also activate the inflammasome by disrupting glycolysis when they invade macrophages . This occurs because the bacteria use up the macrophage’s supply of glycolysis precursor molecules . Replenishing the macrophage with products of glycolysis restored partial energy production and prevented the inflammasome from being activated . Overall , Sanman et al . have identified a previously unknown trigger of inflammation and cell death in macrophages whereby cells can respond to infectious bacteria by sensing a change in energy levels . A next step will be to define the signaling molecules that activate NLRP3 to trigger the construction of the inflammasome . Sanman et al . also hope to uncover other infections and diseases where changes in energy balance might trigger inflammation and cell death .
DNA in a cell is under constant stress from environmental factors , such as ultraviolet light , or from damage caused by the replication process . These sources of stress can cause breaks in the genome , which if left unrepaired can lead to cancer or cell death . One of the most accurate ways to repair a broken fragment of DNA is through recombination – whereby an undamaged copy of the sequence is located in another DNA molecule and used as a template to replace the missing fragment . DNA recombination is regulated by more than a dozen proteins that help recruit the enzyme RAD51 to sites of DNA damage , and trigger its search for complementary sequences of DNA . A molecule known as PALB2 binds to these DNA repair proteins and coordinates their activity . If PALB2 , or these other proteins become mutated , this can increase the risk cancerous growths in various tissues , including the breasts and ovaries . Having a better understanding of how this group of proteins control the repair process could therefore improve prognosis and advance cancer treatments . Now , Deveryshetty et al . have discovered a new and unexpected role for PALB2 within the recombination pathway . As well as binding to other repair proteins , PALB2 interacts directly with DNA , and this interaction was found to be an important part of the repair process . Even in the absence of RAD51 , PALB2 was still able to recombine short fragments of DNA sequence . PALB2 achieves this by initiating recombination using single strands of DNA or a DNA-like molecule known as RNA . This latter property may be particularly important if the molecular machines needed to replicate DNA and synthesize RNA collide on the same DNA molecule . This new role for PALB2 could lead to the discovery of other DNA repair mechanisms , and could be used to predict which PALB2 mutations are more likely to cause cancer . Patients who are at greater risk of cancer could then be treated with more advanced therapies , in order to increase their chances of recovery .
Bacterial cells come in a variety of different shapes , including spheres , rods , spirals , and crescents . Shape is important for bacterial cells because it plays a role in cell division , helps to maximize the uptake of nutrients , and aids cell movement . The shape of a cell is determined mainly by its cytoskeleton , a form of ‘scaffolding’ within the cell that is made of various protein filaments . The bacterial cytoskeleton was discovered over 20 years ago , but it has not been studied as much as the cytoskeletons of yeast , plant , animals , and other eukaryotes . Many of the bacterial proteins and filaments that make up the cytoskeleton are similar to those found in eukaryotes . A protein called MreB , for example , is the bacterial equivalent of actin , which performs a wide range of roles in eukaryotes . However , van den Ent , Izoré et al . have now shown that the detailed structure of MreB filaments is different to that of actin filaments . It has been known for some time that actin filaments are composed of two strands of actin proteins that are twisted and parallel with each other . MreB filaments are also made of two strands of MreB proteins , but van den Ent , Izoré et al . found that these strands are straight , not twisted , and that they are antiparallel rather than parallel . Thus , unlike other filaments of actin-like proteins , where the two ends of the filament are clearly different from each other , the antiparallel strands of MreB form a double filament without a clear direction . van den Ent , Izoré et al . also showed that MreB double filaments can bind to surfaces that mimic a bacterial cell membrane , and that mutant bacterial cells without these double filaments adopt the wrong cell shape . Further experiments exposed potential targets on the MreB filaments for antibiotics that could treat bacterial infections .
Many plants produce flowers that attract insects to land on them . Different insects are attracted to flowers of different shapes and colors . Therefore , it is generally advantageous for plants of the same species to produce flowers that look very similar . For example , a small weed known as Arabidopsis – which is often used in research studies – produces little white flowers that all have four petals . Thus , the number of petals in Arabidopsis flowers is said to be a ‘robust’ trait . However , a closely-related plant called hairy bittercress produces flowers with any number of petals between zero and four . Studying the genetic differences between Arabidopsis and hairy bittercress can help to reveal why the numbers of petals on hairy bittercress flowers vary . A gene called APETALA1 helps to control how petals form . Monniaux , Pieper et al . found that Arabidopsis and hairy bittercress have different versions of this gene that determine whether the number of petals may vary between individual flowers . Inserting the Arabidopsis version of APETALA1 into hairy bittercress plants caused the plants to produce flowers that had more similar numbers of petals to each other , that is , the petal number became more robust . Monniaux , Pieper et al . then used a statistical method called quantitative trait locus analysis to identify the precise location of regions in the hairy bittercress genome that control petal number . This showed that the Arabidopsis version of APETALA1 , but not the hairy bittercress version , conceals the action of these genes that could alter petal number . These findings reveal that evolutionary change in a single gene of hairy bittercress unmasked the action of other genes that caused petal number to vary . A next step will be to identify some of these genes and understand how they control petal number .
Our body fine-tunes the amount of sugar in our blood thanks to specialized ‘beta cells’ in the pancreas , which can release a hormone called insulin . To produce insulin , the beta cells first need to build an early version of the molecule – known as proinsulin – inside a cellular compartment called the endoplasmic reticulum . This process involves the formation of internal staples that keep the molecule of proinsulin folded correctly . Individuals developing type 2 diabetes have spikes of sugar in their blood , and so their bodies often respond by trying to make large amounts of insulin . After a while , the beta cells can fail to keep up , which brings on the full-blown disease . However , scientists have discovered that early in type 2 diabetes , the endoplasmic reticulum of beta cells can already show signs of stress; yet , the exact causes of this early damage are still unknown . To investigate this , Arunagiri et al . looked into whether proinsulin folds correctly during the earliest stages of type 2 diabetes . Biochemical experiments showed that even healthy beta cells contained some misfolded proinsulin molecules , where the molecular staples that should fold proinsulin internally were instead abnormally linking proinsulin molecules together . Further work revealed that the misfolded proinsulin was accumulating inside the endoplasmic reticulum . Finally , obese mice that were in the earliest stages of type 2 diabetes had the highest levels of abnormal proinsulin in their beta cells . Overall , the work by Arunagiri et al . suggests that large amounts of proinsulin molecules stapling themselves to each other in the endoplasmic reticulum of beta cells could be an early hallmark of the disease , and could make it get worse . A separate study by Jang et al . also shows that a protein that limits the misfolding of proinsulin is key to maintain successful insulin production in animals eating a Western-style , high fat diet . Hundreds of millions of people around the world have type 2 diabetes , and this number is rising quickly . Detecting and then fixing early problems associated with the condition may help to stop the disease in its track .
Plants , animals and fungi store much of their DNA tightly packed with proteins in a form named heterochromatin . This arrangement helps to inactivate genes that are not needed in specific cells or at specific times , and provides a way to protect the genetic material from damage . Heterochromatin tends to form when an enzyme called a lysine methyltransferase chemically modifies some of the proteins associated with the DNA , which are known as histones . This enzyme modifies only some of the histones to get the process started , while a second protein then binds to the modified histones and causes more of the DNA to become packaged up as heterochromatin . In 2012 , researchers reported that the version of the lysine methyltransferase enzyme from yeast binds to RNA molecules via a portion known as its chromodomain . Moreover , the enzyme needed to bind to RNA to help heterochromatin to form . A similar mechanism also occurs in fruit flies , another organism that is commonly studied in the laboratory . However , it was not clear if it happened in mammals like mice and humans . Now , Shirai , Kawaguchi et al . – who include many of the researchers involved in the 2012 study – report that the corresponding enzyme from mice can also bind to RNA molecules via its chromodomain . Further experiments showed that this activity was closely linked with the enzyme’s ability to target the correct histones and efficiently form heterochromatin . The first experiments were conducted using purified enzymes in the laboratory , while follow-up experiments looked at the enzyme’s activity within mouse cells . Other studies have previously reported that mutant mice lacking the lysine methyltransferase enzyme have defective heterochromatin , tend to die young and have genetic instabilities that are associated with an increased risk of tumors and male infertility . The new findings of Shirai , Kawaguchi et al . reveal that the mechanism behind the establishment of heterochromatin has mostly likely been conserved over a billion years of evolution , which is when yeast and mammals last shared a common ancestor . By revealing more about how mammalian cells can protect their DNA , these new findings could also mark an important step toward understanding and preventing birth defects that are caused when an embryo’s genetic material becomes damaged .
When driving home from work , we can easily tell where we are along our route . A network of regions deep within the brain acts a little like an inbuilt GPS and tracks our position relative to other objects in the environment . Cells in one of these brain regions , called the entorhinal cortex , construct a map of our surroundings . The map resembles a grid of tessellating triangles , and the cells that produce it are called grid cells . Whenever we move onto a corner of one of the triangles , the corresponding grid cells start to fire . This firing enables the brain to track our movements . But grid cells may do more than support navigation through the physical world . They may also help us navigate through our memories . Evidence suggests that we organize our knowledge and experiences into mental maps . These maps connect related concepts just as physical maps connect nearby locations . In principle , the brain systems that support physical navigation may also enable us to access the information within our mental maps . But for this to be true , cells such as grid cells must respond to movement in mental space as well as in physical space . Wilming et al . have now tested this possibility by training macaque monkeys to detect a color change in a dot moving across a screen . The monkeys had to keep their eyes fixed on the center of the screen throughout the task . This meant they could not move their eyes to track the dot . Instead they had to mentally move the focus of their attention . Wilming et al . monitored the activity of cells in the entorhinal cortex as the monkeys mentally followed the dot . As predicted , some of the cells fired in a triangular grid-like pattern similar to that seen when animals move through their environment . Grid cells can thus fire in the absence of physical movement . These findings bring us closer to understanding how brain circuits that code for spatial locations also support other mental processes . Evidence from many sources suggests that structures within the brain’s medial temporal lobe , including the entorhinal cortex , contribute to memory . The next challenge is to identify how these brain regions encode spatial and other types of information and use them to form memories .
In science , it is of vital importance that multiple studies corroborate the same result . Researchers therefore need to know all the details of previous experiments in order to implement the procedures as exactly as possible . However , this is becoming a major problem in neuroscience , as animal studies of behavior have proven to be hard to reproduce , and most experiments are never replicated by other laboratories . Mice are increasingly being used to study the neural mechanisms of decision making , taking advantage of the genetic , imaging and physiological tools that are available for mouse brains . Yet , the lack of standardized behavioral assays is leading to inconsistent results between laboratories . This makes it challenging to carry out large-scale collaborations which have led to massive breakthroughs in other fields such as physics and genetics . To help make these studies more reproducible , the International Brain Laboratory ( a collaborative research group ) et al . developed a standardized approach for investigating decision making in mice that incorporates every step of the process; from the training protocol to the software used to analyze the data . In the experiment , mice were shown images with different contrast and had to indicate , using a steering wheel , whether it appeared on their right or left . The mice then received a drop of sugar water for every correction decision . When the image contrast was high , mice could rely on their vision . However , when the image contrast was very low or zero , they needed to consider the information of previous trials and choose the side that had recently appeared more frequently . This method was used to train 140 mice in seven laboratories from three different countries . The results showed that learning speed was different across mice and laboratories , but once training was complete the mice behaved consistently , relying on visual stimuli or experiences to guide their choices in a similar way . These results show that complex behaviors in mice can be reproduced across multiple laboratories , providing an unprecedented dataset and open-access tools for studying decision making . This work could serve as a foundation for other groups , paving the way to a more collaborative approach in the field of neuroscience that could help to tackle complex research challenges .
The human body has a limited ability to regenerate and repair itself after major injuries . By contrast , flatworms – most notably planarians such as Schmidtea mediterranea – have exceptional regenerative abilities and can regrow large parts of their bodies . Regrowing body parts is a complex process involving the coordinated creation of many different types of cells , and thus an important first step in understanding tissue regeneration is to develop a detailed catalog of cell types in that tissue . Laser capture microdissection , or LCM for short , is a technology used to isolate and study subregions or even individual cells from within a tissue . This approach can help to identify different cell types and to examine what makes them unique . LCM can be used to create a detailed catalog of cells , their differences and the roles they perform . Forsthoefel et al . have now used LCM to study cells from the planarian digestive system . This approach found 1 , 800 genes that have high activity in cells from the gut and showed many similarities between planaria and humans . LCM made it possible to study these cells in a new level of detail , revealing several hundred new genes as well as new cell types . The study showed that regeneration and survival of cells known as goblet cells particularly depended on two genes , gli-1 and RREB2 . Irreversible gut damage in humans can result from surgeries and conditions such as acid reflux . Other animals are able to repair and regenerate the gut more successfully . Techniques like LCM can help researchers to understand the differences between humans and other species . In time , these insights may lead to technologies and therapies that can improve our own abilities to heal following injuries .
The mormyrids are a family of fish that can generate and detect weak electric fields that they use to navigate and communicate . Each species in this family produces its own distinct shape of electrical signals . Other fish detect these signals using structures called receptors , which then send information to the brain in the form of an electrical nerve impulse . Previous research showed that different species of fish respond to different aspects of the electric fields they detect , depending on the receptor types that they have evolved . For example , some species have ‘spiking receptors’ that send a spike of activity to the brain at the start or end of a detected electrical pulse . This allows the fish to detect subtle changes to the shape of the detected electric field . Other species have sensors known as oscillatory receptors; these send a continuous wave of nerve activity to the brain even when no electric field is detected . It is not clear exactly how oscillatory receptors work or what the roles of these different receptor types are . Baker et al . have now recorded the activity of the receptors of mormyrid fish as they were exposed to electrical fields that mimic the signals they are normally exposed to in their daily environment . The recordings confirmed previous results that suggest that species with spiking receptors are able to detect variations in the shapes of electrical signals produced by other fish because the receptors produce spikes of activity at the start or end of a detected signal . This response pattern allows their brains to analyze the signal shape . In contrast , Baker et al . found that when oscillatory receptors detect a new electric field , they reset their pattern of nerve activity , causing multiple receptors to briefly synchronize their activity . This enables the fish to detect where a signal has been sent from . However , the oscillatory receptors are unable to detect any variations in the shape of the detected electric signal . The oscillatory receptors are most sensitive to certain electric field patterns that are produced by large groups of a single species of fish . Further experiments showed that the fish also change their behavior when these particular electric field patterns are detected . Why some species of mormyrids have spiking receptors while others have oscillatory receptors is unknown . It is also unknown how the brain processes oscillatory receptor activity . Future studies will investigate whether these two receptor types may be linked to differences in fish's social behavior , and how the neural networks for processing sensory information differ between the two types of fishes .
Whooping cough is a respiratory illness caused by bacteria in the Bordetella genus . Among the general public , Bordetella species have become a hot topic in recent years due to the re-emergence of whooping cough in the United States and elsewhere . Scientists , meanwhile have become interested in a virus called BPP-1 that can kill the Bordetella species . BPP-1 is a double-stranded DNA virus , and such viruses have long been of interest to scientists because they are the most abundant organisms on Earth . These viruses are also noteworthy because their shells ( also known as capsids ) are capable of withstanding the very high pressures ( up to about 40 atmospheres ) that are created by packing so much DNA into the very small volume inside the capsid . BPP-1 is of particular interest because it is capable of making large-scale changes to its own DNA in order to adapt to changes in its hosts and environment . Of all the organism that do not contain nuclei within their cells ( collectively known as prokaryotes ) , BPP-1 is the only one that is capable of making such changes to its DNA . However , efforts to exploit the properties of BPP-1 for bioengineering applications have been hampered because its detailed structure is not known . Now Zhang et al . have used cryo electron microscopy to study the structure of BPP-1 at the atomic level . Most viruses belong to one of three major lineages , with each lineage having a characteristic fold in its capsid proteins . Zhang et al . found that BPP-1 contains two of these folds , which suggests that it is a hybrid of two of these lineages . This is the first time that such a structure has been observed . Moreover , Zhang et al . found that one of the folds has an unusual topology that has not been seen before . The atomic structure reveals how double-stranded DNA viruses use a variety of non-covalent interactions and a type of protein ‘chainmail’ to form a highly stable capsid that is capable of withstanding very high pressures . In addition to enabling applications in bioengineering , the new structure might also provide insights into the evolution of prokaryotes .
Viruses are constantly evolving as a result of mutations in their genetic material and environmental pressures . Viruses switching between insects and mammals face unique evolutionary pressures because they must retain their ability to infect both types of organisms . Yet , the mutations in a virus that may be beneficial in an insect may be different from the ones that may be beneficial in a mammal . Mutations in one host may be even harmful in the other . To learn more about how such viruses thrive as they switch between hosts , Dolan , Taguwa et al . studied the dengue virus , which causes over 390 million infections and over 10 , 000 deaths each year around the globe . They compared the mutations that occurred as the virus multiplied in human and mosquito cells grown in a laboratory . In the experiments , they used a method called ultra-deep RNA sequencing to identify every change that occurred in the genetic material of the virus each time it multiplied . They determined whether the mutations were beneficial or harmful based on whether they became more common – suggesting they helped the virus survive – or whether they did not persist because they were likely harmful or even fatal to the virus . The experiments showed that many harmful mutations constantly occur in the virus , in both human and mosquito cells . Beneficial changes happen rarely , and those that do are usually only helpful in one type of cell . Fatal mutations tended to occur in parts of the genetic material that encodes regions in the viral proteins that must remain the same . These structural elements appear to be essential to the virus’s survival and unable to undergo change , which makes them good targets for antiviral drugs or vaccines . The techniques used in the study may be useful for investigating other viruses and for understanding the evolutionary constraints on viruses more generally . This may help scientists develop antiviral drugs or vaccines that will remain effective even as viruses continue to evolve and mutate .
The Ras family of proteins play an important role in relaying signals from the outside to the inside of the cell . Ras proteins are attached by a fatty tail to the inner surface of the cell membrane . When activated they transmit a burst of signal that controls critical behaviors like growth , survival and movement . It has been suggested that to prevent these signals from being accidently activated , Ras molecules must group together at specialized sites within the membrane before passing on their message . However , visualizing how Ras molecules cluster together at these domains has thus far been challenging . As a result , little is known about where these sites are located and how Ras molecules come to a stop at these domains . Now , Lee et al . have combined two microscopy techniques called ‘single-particle tracking’ and ‘photoactivated localization microscopy' to track how individual molecules of activated Ras move in human cells grown in the lab . This revealed that Ras molecules quickly diffuse along the inside of the membrane until they arrive at certain locations that cause them to halt . However , computer models consisting of just the ‘fast’ and ‘immobile’ state could not correctly re-capture the way Ras molecules moved along the membrane . Lee et al . found that for these models to mimic the movement of Ras , a third ‘intermediate’ state of Ras mobility needed to be included . To investigate this further , Lee et al . created a fluorescent map that overlaid all the individual paths taken by each Ras molecule . The map showed regions in the membrane where the Ras molecules had stopped and possibly clustered together . Each of these ‘immobilization domains’ were then surrounded by an ‘intermediate domain’ where Ras molecules had begun to slow down their movement . Although the intermediate domains did not last long , they seemed to guide Ras molecules into the immobilization domains where they could cluster together with other molecules . From there , the cell constantly removed Ras molecules from these membrane domains and returned them back to their ‘fast’ diffusing state . Mutations in Ras proteins occur in around a third of all cancers , so a better understanding of their dynamics could help with future drug discovery . The methods used here could also be used to investigate the movement of other signaling molecules .
Before an animal is born , a protein called BMP plays a key role in establishing the difference between the front and the back of the animal . Cells nearer the front of the embryo contain higher amounts of the BMP protein , whilst cells nearer the back have progressively lower levels of BMP . This gradient of BMP ‘concentration’ affects the identity of the cells , with the level of BMP in each cell dictating what parts of the body are made where . The prevailing view among scientists is that the BMP gradient is created by an opposing gradient of another protein called Chordin , which is found at high levels at the back of the embryo and lower levels near the front . Chordin inhibits BMP and the interaction between the two proteins establishes the gradients that create order across the embryo . Zinski et al . used computer models to investigate how the BMP gradient is created . Several possibilities were considered , including the effect of Chordin . Comparing the models to precise experimental measurements of BMP activity in zebrafish embryos suggested that a different mechanism known as a source-sink model , rather than the opposing Chordin gradient , may be responsible for the pattern of BMP found in the embryo . In this model , the BMP is produced at the front of the embryo and moves towards the back end by diffusion . At the back of the embryo , BMP is mopped up by Chordin , resulting in a constant gradient of BMP along the embryo . Many other processes that control how animals grow and develop rely on the formation of similar protein gradients , so these findings may also apply to other aspects of animal development . Understanding how animals grow and develop may help researchers to develop strategies to regrow tissues and organs in human patients .
Lysosomes are specialized , enclosed compartments within cells with harsh chemical conditions where enzymes break down large molecules into smaller component parts . The products of these reactions are then transported out of the lysosome by transporter proteins so that they can be used to build new molecules that the cell needs . Despite their importance , only a few lysosomal transporters have been thoroughly studied . A protein called MFSD1 had previously been identified as a potential lysosomal transporter , but its precise role has not been described . Now , Massa López et al . have characterized the role of MFSD1 , by genetically modifying mice so they could no longer make the transporter . These mice developed severe liver damage . In particular , a specific type of cell that is important for lining blood vessels in the liver , seemed to be lost in these mice . Older MFSD1 deficient mice also had more tumors in their livers compared to normal mice . Massa López et al . next examined what happened to other lysosomal proteins in the MFSD1 deficient mice , and found that these mice had strikingly low levels of a protein called GLMP . To better understand the relationship between GLMP and MFSD1 , another strain of genetically modified mice was analyzed , this time missing GLMP . Mice without GLMP were found to have very similar liver problems to those observed in the mice lacking MFSD1 . Moreover , the GLMP deficient mice had low levels of the MFSD1 protein . Further experiments demonstrated that MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact with each other: GLMP seemed to protect MFSD1 from being degraded in the harsh internal environment of the lysosome . Thus both GLMP and MFSD1 were needed to form a stable lysosomal transporter . Characterizing MFSD1 is important for scientists attempting to understand how the lysosomal membrane and transporters work . Moreover , these findings may shed light on how defects in lysosomal transporters contribute to metabolic disease .
The inside of a cell is a dynamic environment . Large molecules such as proteins are commonly transported within a cell by ‘motor proteins’ , which move along a network of filaments called microtubules . One group of motor proteins , the kinesins , typically have one end called a motor domain that attaches itself to a microtubule . The other end links to the cargo being carried , and a flexible ‘neck’ region connects the two ends of the motor protein . Kinesins are bound together in pairs . The flexible neck region allows each motor domain in a pair to move past that of the other , allowing the kinesin to ‘walk’ along a microtubule in a step-like manner . Each step requires one motor domain to alternately tightly associate with , and then release from , a microtubule filament . This alternating cycle is coordinated by kinesin binding to and breaking down a molecule called ATP to form another molecule called ADP , which releases the energy needed for its next step . This repeating cycle is possible because a motor domain changes shape when it binds to a microtubule . This shape change stimulates the release of ADP , freeing up room for a new ATP molecule to bind to the motor domain . Although relatively small , these structural changes produce larger changes in the flexible neck region that enable the individual motor domains within a kinesin pair to co-ordinate their movement and move efficiently . Many previous studies have investigated these shape changes using a technique called cryo-electron microscopy , which rapidly freezes samples and allows their structure to be recorded in high detail . However , the small size of the motor domains and their changes in shape means that this technique was not able to reveal the structures in full detail . Shang et al . now exploit recent advances in cryo-electron microscopy to examine the structural changes of individual kinesin motor domains in greater detail . Images of motor domains bound to microtubules were made while the motor domain was in one of two different states: not bound to ATP or ADP , or bound to a chemically modified form of ATP that cannot be broken down . Shang et al . then used these images to produce models of the motor domains and compared the models with previously published images . This revealed a cleft in the kinesin motor domain that opens when it attaches to a microtubule . This cleft's ‘clamshell-like’ opening allows ADP to be released; it then closes when a molecule of ATP binds to it . The opening and closing of the cleft causes the changes in the ‘neck linker’ of the kinesin that enable the motor protein to transport its cargo , and so links ATP binding to the movement of the motor protein . Shang et al . suggest that similar processes may also occur in other motor proteins that have not been as well studied as the kinesins .
Proteins are molecules that need to fold into the right shape to do their job . If proteins lose that shape , not only do they stop working but they risk clumping together and becoming toxic , potentially leading to disease . Fortunately , the cell has quality control systems that normally detect and remove misfolded proteins before they can cause damage to the cell . First , sets of proteins known as chaperones recognize the misfolded proteins , and then another class of proteins attaches a molecular tag , known as ubiquitin , to the misshapen proteins . When several ubiquitin tags are attached to a protein , forming chains of ubiquitin , it is transported to a large molecular machine within the cell called the proteasome . The proteasome unravels the protein and breaks it down into its constituent building blocks , which can then be used to create new proteins . Proteins are found throughout the different compartments of the cell and quality control processes have been well-studied in some parts of the cell but not others . Metzger et al . have now revealed how the process works on the surface of mitochondria , the compartment that provides the cell with most of its energy . To do this , they used baker’s yeast , a model laboratory organism that shares many fundamental properties with animal cells , but which is easier to manipulate genetically . The quality control process was studied using two mitochondrial proteins that had been mutated to make them sensitive to changes in temperature . This meant that , when the temperature increased from 25°C to 37°C , these proteins would begin to unravel and trigger the clean-up operation . This approach has been used previously to understand the quality control processes in other parts of the cell . By removing different quality control machinery in turn from the yeast cells , Metzger et al . could detect which were necessary for the process on mitochondria . This showed that there were many similarities with how this process happen in other parts of the cell but that the precise combination of chaperones and enzymes involved was distinct . Furthermore , when the proteasome was not working , the misfolded proteins remained on the mitochondria , showing that they are not transported to other parts of the cell to be broken down . In the future , understanding this process could help to find potential drug targets for mitochondrial diseases . The next steps will be to see how well these findings apply to human and other mammalian cells .
Our skin is our largest organ; it provides a barrier that protects the underlying tissues and internal organs from the external environment and acts as one of our first lines of defense against infection . Both of these roles subject the skin to wear and tear and so it must constantly create new skin cells to replace those lost or damaged . However , if this renewal process goes awry it can lead to excessive cell growth or skin cancer . To avoid this , cells tightly regulate the pathways that stimulate skin renewal . Skin renewal involves growth signals activating an enzyme called ERK . When and where the ERK enzyme is activated is normally tightly regulated , and many kinds of cancer have been linked to ERK becoming active at the wrong time or in the wrong place . Despite the importance of ERK in skin cells , a number of technical challenges have made it difficult to study how these signals are passed from cell to cell . Hiratsuka et al . have now examined genetically altered mice that produce a fluorescent sensor molecule that makes it possible to see ERK activity in living skin cells . The skin of anesthetized mice was observed under a microscope , and time-lapse videos revealed occasional ‘firework-like’ bursts of ERK activity . At first the ERK enzyme was active in a small cluster of skin cells , then ERK activity was seen in the surrounding cells—appearing to spread outwards over the course of several minutes—before the activity stopped . Hiratsuka et al . named this pattern of activity a ‘Spatial Propagation of Radial ERK Activity Distribution’ , or SPREAD for short . By studying SPREADs in the skin on the ears and the back of these mice , Hiratsuka et al . learned that these bursts of ERK activity coincided with skin cell growth; the bursts happened more frequently in the areas where the skin cells were dividing . Applying a chemical that stimulates cell division to the skin of the mice triggered more bursts of ERK activity; whereas fewer bursts were observed if Hiratsuka et al . used other chemicals to block the activity of some of the signaling proteins that work upstream of ERK . Further experiments suggested that SPREADs encourage cells to progress through the cycle of events that leads a cell to divide; blocking these bursts caused the cell to pause at the stage just before it would normally divide . Hiratsuka et al . also observed similar patterns of ERK activity moving out like waves from the edges of skin wounds . Further research using similar methods will reveal how growth signals are triggered and propagated in healthy and diseased tissues , not only in the skin but also other organs such as the liver , intestine , and muscles .
All life forms on the surface of our planet face an environment that cycles between day and night as the Earth rotates around its axis . To deal with these regular changes , organisms from bacteria to humans have internal rhythms , called circadian clocks , that coordinate different aspects of these organisms’ lives , from growth to the urge to sleep , with the day-night cycle . The simplest of all known circadian clocks is found in bacteria called cyanobacteria , which live in bodies of water all around the world . Like plants , these microorganisms can harness the energy in sunlight to fuel their growth . The internal clock of cyanobacteria is remarkable because it can be rebuilt in the laboratory using just three components , proteins called KaiA , KaiB and KaiC . When mixed together in a test tube , these proteins spontaneously generate a 24-hour cycle in which KaiC gets chemically modified by the addition and removal of a phosphate group . These chemical modifications on KaiC are like the hands of the clock that tell the time of day . Much work on the internal clock of cyanobacteria has focused on how the clock proteins generate rhythms . What has been less clear is how this rhythm works in an environment that changes between day and night and from season to season . For example , away from the equator , the length of the day changes throughout the year . Changes in day length are important for cyanobacteria because they can grow only during the day and must rest at night . Yet , it was not understood how this microorganism's clock adjusts to days of different length . To address this question , Leypunskiy et al . made a device to grow cyanobacteria in many different light-dark cycles while monitoring their circadian rhythm . The experiments revealed a fairly simple result: the internal clock time is always the same at the middle of the day , regardless of how long the day is . Next , Leypunskiy et al . developed a way to study how the clock proteins in the test tube respond to chemical signals mimicking day and night . Unexpectedly , this showed that the Kai proteins themselves have the ability to track the middle of the day . It turns out that these proteins are not only able to generate a 24-hour rhythm , but also to correctly align it to the day-night cycle . Together , these findings will guide other researchers to better understand the molecular origins of how circadian clocks align to the day-night cycle . Moreover , by showing that the effects of a light-dark cycle on a circadian clock can be mimicked in a test tube , these results open the doors to using the tools of biochemistry to understand how circadian clocks work in natural environments .
Nerve cells called sympathetic neurons can control the activity of almost all of our organs without any conscious thought on our part . For example , these nerve cells are responsible for accelerating the heart rate during exercise . In a developing embryo , there are initially more of these neurons than are needed , and only those that develop correctly and form a connection with a target cell will survive . This is because the target cells provide the growing neurons with vital molecules called neurotrophins , which are trafficked back along the nerve fiber and into the main body of the nerve cell to ensure its survival . However , it is largely unknown which proteins or genes are also involved in this developmental process . Now , Bouilloux , Thireau et al . show that if a gene called Meis1 is inactivated in mice , the sympathetic neurons start to develop and grow nerve fibers , but then fail to establish connections with their target cells and finally die . The Meis1 gene encodes a transcription factor , which is a protein that regulates gene activity . Therefore , Bouilloux , Thireau et al . looked for the genes that are regulated by this transcription factor in sympathetic neurons . This search uncovered several genes that are involved in the packaging and trafficking of molecules within cells . Other experiments then revealed that the trafficking of molecules back along the nerve fiber was altered in mutant neurons in which the Meis1 gene had been inactivated . Furthermore , Meis1 mutant mice had problems with their heart rate , especially during exercise , and an increased risk of dying from a sudden cardiac arrest . These findings reveal a transcription factor that helps to establish a connection between a neuron and its target , and that activates a pattern of gene expression that works alongside the neurotrophin-based signals . Since all neurons undergo similar processes during development , future work could ask if comparable patterns of gene expression exist in other types of neurons , and if problems with such processes contribute to some neurodegenerative diseases .
Engineers have long studied how mechanical instabilities cause patterns to form in inanimate materials , and recently more attention has been given to how such forces affect biological systems . For example , stresses can build up within a tissue if one layer grows faster than an adjacent layer . The tissue can release this stress by wrinkling , folding or creasing . Though ancient and single-celled , bacteria can also develop spectacular patterns when they exist in the lifestyle known as a biofilm: a community of cells adhered to a surface . But do mechanical instabilities drive the patterns seen in biofilms ? To investigate , Yan , Fei , Mao et al . grew biofilms of the bacterium called Vibrio cholerae – which causes the disease cholera – on solid , non-growing ‘substrates’ . This work revealed that as the biofilms grow , their expansion is constrained by the substrate , and this situation generates mechanical stresses . To release the stresses , the biofilm initially folds to form wrinkles . Later , as the biofilm expands further , small parts of it detach from the substrate to form blisters . The same forces that keep water droplets spherical ( known as interfacial forces ) dictate how the blisters evolve , interact , and eventually shape the expanding biofilm . Using these principles , Yan et al . could engineer the biofilm into desired shapes . Collectively , the results presented by Yan et al . connect the shape of the biofilm surface with its material properties , in particular its stiffness . Understanding this relationship could help researchers to develop new ways to remove harmful biofilms , such as those that cause disease or that damage underwater structures . The stiffness of biofilms is already known to affect how well bacteria can resist antibiotics . Future studies could look for new genes or compounds that change the material properties of a biofilm , thereby altering the biofilm surface .
Epilepsy is a common brain disease that can cause disabling seizures . During a seizure , brain cells send out abnormal signals , which can mean that people having seizures may be unaware of their surroundings and may fall or otherwise injure themselves . Individuals with epilepsy develop changes in their brain cells and in the circuits that connect these cells together . Some people develop epilepsy because they have mutations in genes . Others develop the condition after an injury or a long seizure , which leads to changes in gene expression and therefore changes to the brain's cells and circuits . In 2011 , researchers found that a protein that normally switches off the expression of certain genes during brain development , but which is almost absent in the adult brain , may run amok after a seizure . The level of this protein—a transcription factor called NRSF—increased in the brains of rats that had been caused to have a seizure . A long provoked seizure caused many of the rats to develop epilepsy . But , if NRSF was blocked after the original seizure , the rats were less likely to have further seizures later on . Now McClelland et al . , including several of the researchers involved in the 2011 work , have examined what normally happens to the expression of genes after a seizure and what happens when the NRSF transcription factor is blocked . McClelland et al . found that only a small subset—about 10%—of the genes that can theoretically be silenced by NRSF are switched off in the brain when this protein's levels increase after a seizure . The increased NRSF levels , unexpectedly , did not affect the genes that bind tightly to this transcription factor . Nor did NRSF affect genes that bind loosely . Instead , the genes that the transcription factor binds to with an intermediate strength were the ones that were switched off . McClelland et al . suggest that this ‘mid-range binding’ to NRSF allows the expression of these genes to be increased or decreased in response to there being more or less NRSF in the cell . Genes that bind tightly to NRSF are likely to already have a lot of NRSF bound and are therefore already switched off; and loosely-binding genes would likely need even more NRSF before they are switched off . The subset of genes that were switched off by the increased levels of NRSF after a seizure code for a number of proteins that brain cells need to be able to effectively send and receive messages . Blocking the ability of NRSF to bind to these genes and switch them off may help to prevent the brain changes that cause epilepsy .
The brain often processes different features of sensory information in separate pathways . For example , when seeing an object , information about colour and movement are processed by separate types of neurons in the eye . These neurons in turn relay information to different sets of brain areas , all of which are active at the same time . Such parallel processing was originally not thought to apply to information about smell . This was because in mammals , the two types of neurons in the brain area that processes smell seemed to play the same role . However , more recent work suggests that there are in fact differences in the responses of these two neuron types ( called mitral cells and tufted cells ) to odors , suggesting that the brain might use parallel processing for information about smells too . Information travels along neurons in the form of electrical signals , and this activity is often seen in the form of a series of “spikes” . In a process called lateral inhibition , the activity of one neuron can feed back and inhibit the activity of its neighbors . This is important for enhancing contrast; in terms of the sense of smell , lateral inhibition is thought to help distinguish between similar odors . A technique called optogenetics allows the activity of particular neurons in an animal’s brain to be controlled by shining light onto them . Geramita et al . have now used this technique in mice to investigate whether there are differences in how lateral inhibition works in mitral cells and tufted cells . This revealed that lateral inhibition affects mitral cells only when they are spiking at intermediate firing rates , whereas tufted cells are only affected by lateral inhibition when spiking at low firing rates . Using computer simulations , Geramita et al . show that these different responses mean that mitral cells are best at distinguishing similar smells when they are present at high concentrations , while tufted cells are best at distinguishing similar smells that are present at low concentrations . These differences also mean that , by working together , mitral and tufted cells can distinguish between smells much better than either type of neuron on its own . These results demonstrate that , as with the other senses , the brain processes information about smell using parallel pathways . Future work is now needed to see what effect switching off the activity of either mitral or tufted cells will have on an animal’s behavior .
Proteins called G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) are found on the surface of cells throughout the body . Hormones or other signal molecules – collectively known as ligands – from outside the cell can bind to the receptors to activate them . This causes a change in the structure of the receptor , which triggers a signal inside the cell to alter the cell’s behavior . GPCRs are known to form clusters of two or more receptor units , but it is not known if these clusters have unique properties or what role they play in cells . Many drugs can bind to GPCRs and most of them block the activity of the receptors by taking the place of the natural ligand . Another way to alter the activity of a GPCR is with so-called 'allosteric' drugs . These bind to different sites on the receptor than the natural ligands do and can inhibit or enhance binding of the ligands by altering the shape of the receptor . Shivnaraine et al . investigated how a type of GPCR called muscarinic cholinergic receptors interact within clusters . This involved developing a method to track the receptor in mammalian cells using a fluorescent sensor that detects changes in the allosteric site . The experiments show that two or more GPCRs need to interact for the receptors to respond to allosteric drugs in a manner that reflects the normal effect of the drugs on the body . This result is unexpected in light of the assumption that individual receptor molecules act independently . Shivnaraine et al . ’s findings indicate that the clusters may play a role in the normal behavior of GPCRs in cells . A future challenge is to understand exactly how the GPCRs interact with each other .
Normal wear and tear , exposure to chemicals , and ultraviolet light can all damage DNA , so cells rely on a range of sensors and mechanisms to detect and repair damaged DNA . Cells also package DNA molecules inside structures called histones to protect them against damage . Double-strand breaks—one of the most serious forms of DNA damage—are detected by an enzyme called ATM , and can be repaired in two ways . Bringing the broken strands back together is an obvious method , but it is also error prone . Using templates to generate new DNA to repair the damage is less prone to error , but it can only happen at certain times of the cell cycle . Some cancers are linked to the faulty repair of double-strand breaks . Moreover , a type of kidney cancer called clear cell renal carcinoma is linked to a lack of activity by a protein called p53 , even in individuals who don't have mutations in the gene for this protein . However , many people with this type of cancer have mutations in the gene for a protein called SETD2 . To investigate the links between SETD2 and DNA repair , Carvalho et al . compared cells with and without mutations in the gene for SETD2 . It emerged that SETD2 must be present for DNA repair to take place: the SETD2 modifies the histones so that they can recruit the enzymes that repair the DNA via the template approach ( which is relatively error free ) . SETD2 may be particularly important for repairing damage to genes without introducing errors . Carvalho et al . also show that mutations in SETD2 are sufficient to inactivate p53 . The gene for this protein , which impedes the proliferation of cells with genomic aberrations , such as double-strand breaks , is mutated in most cancers . Overall the results help to illustrate how histone modifications and the DNA damage repair mechanisms and checkpoints work in concert to suppress cancer .
Our DNA contains more than three billion nucleotides . Each of these nucleotides can be an A , C , G or T , and groups of three neighboring nucleotides within our DNA are used to represent the 20 amino acids that are used to make proteins . This means that changing just one nucleotide can cause one amino acid to be replaced by a different amino acid in the protein encoded by that stretch of DNA: AAA and AAG code for the amino acid lysine , for example , but AAC and AAT code for asparagine . Known as missense gene variants , these changes can also increase or decrease the expression of the gene . Every person has thousands of missense gene variants , including about 12 , 000 inherited from their parents . Sometimes these variants have no consequence , but they can be harmful if replacing the correct amino acid with a different amino acid prevents the protein from performing an important task . In particular , missense gene variants in genes that encode immune system proteins are likely to play a role in diseases of the immune system . For example , variants near a gene called Rasgrp1 have been linked to two autoimmune diseases – type 1 diabetes and Graves’ disease—in which the immune system mistakenly attacks the body’s own cells and tissues . Now Daley et al . have shed new light on the mechanism by which a missense gene variant in Rasgrp1 can cause autoimmune diseases . Mice with this mutation show signs of autoimmune disease , but their T cells—white blood cells that have a central role in the immune system – develop normally despite this mutation . Instead , Daley et al . found that a specific type of T cell , called T helper cells , accumulated in large numbers in the mutant mice and stimulated cells of a third type—immune cells called B cells—to produce autoantibodies . The production of autoantibodies is a common feature of autoimmune diseases . Daley et al . traced the origins of the T helper cells to excessive activity on a signaling pathway that involves a protein called mTOR , and went on to show that treatment with the drug rapamycin counteracted the accumulation of the T helper cells and reduced the level of autoimmune activity . In addition to exemplifying how changing just one amino acid change can have a profound effect , the work of Daley et al . is an attractive model for exploring how missense gene variants in people can contribute to autoimmune diseases .
The pancreas produces many different hormones , as well as several substances important for digestion . To perform these roles , the pancreas contains different types of cells; for example , acinar cells make digestive enzymes that help to break down food . But , like other cells in the body , pancreatic cells can accumulate mutations in their DNA that cause them to divide , acquire an altered identity and form a cancerous tumor . The DNA of cells is packed into a structure called chromatin . While the DNA sequence is essentially the same across all normal cells of a given individual , chromatin can be more or less compacted in the different cell types that comprise our body tissues . A collection of proteins called the SWI/SNF complex can reorganize the chromatin to change how tightly the DNA is packed . This determines which genes in the DNA are accessible and can be activated , and which ones cannot . Around 25% of pancreatic cancers contain mutations in genes that produce proteins of the SWI/SNF complex . These mutations normally occur with an additional mutation that over-activates the gene that produces a potentially cancer-causing protein called Kras . Livshits et al . have now genetically engineered mice to investigate how one such SWI/SNF complex protein , called Arid1a , affects how pancreatic cancer develops using a genetic approach that made possible to temporarily halt the production of Arid1a in acinar cells by feeding these mice an antibiotic . The gene that produces Kras was also over-activated in the pancreases of the mice , making them more likely to develop cancer . Within just two weeks of stopping the production of Arid1a , the acinar cells stopped producing digestive enzymes and started making other proteins that are typically found in cancerous cells , indicating that Arid1a is involved in maintaining the normal identity and activity of these cells . Restoring the ability of altered acinar cells to produce normal levels of Arid1a ( by removing the mice from the antibiotic diet ) did not reverse these changes . Biochemical experiments showed that acinar cells with reduced levels of Arid1a have altered chromatin . In particular , the genes that produce digestive enzymes , which are normally active in healthy pancreases , were less accessible in mice who had over-active Kras and reduced levels of Arid1a . The results presented by Livshits et al . provide the first evidence of how alterations to Arid1a can lead to irreversible changes in the identity and activity of pancreatic acinar cells . These results will need to be carefully considered by researchers who are developing treatments for cancer patients with mutations in Arid1a and other SWI/SNF proteins . In particular , methods that attempt to restore the functions of absent SWI/SNF proteins to cancer cells are unlikely to treat the cancer successfully .
Many species , including humans , use social interaction to reduce the effects of stress . In fact , the lack of a social network may itself be a source of stress . Recent research suggests that young girls are more sensitive to social stress than boys . This could mean that social networks are more important for females in general , and that young females from different species , such as mice , may be more sensitive to social isolation than males . However , few studies have examined how social isolation affects the brain cells that control the release of stress hormones . As such , it remains unknown whether isolating individuals from their social group impacts on the brain in sex-specific ways . Senst , Baimoukhametova et al . now show that the brains of young male and female mice react differently to social isolation . Less than a day after separation from their littermates , the activity in the brain cells of female mice became markedly different from that of isolated males . In contrast to social isolation , the physical stress of being made to swim produced similar changes in the brains of both male and female mice . Further experiments then showed that the changes in the brain cells that control the release of stress hormones required a signalling chemical called corticosterone , which is produced in response to stressful situations . This suggests that , in repsonse to soical isolation , the females are experiencing more stress than the males . Following on from this work , one future challenge will be to investigate if reuniting a social group erases the effects of social isolation on the brain . Further experiments could also examine the behavioural and physiological effects of social isolation , including how females respond to later stressful events .
In humans and other mammals , a protein in the blood called hemoglobin carries oxygen from the lungs to other parts of the body . This protein contains four subunits that can each bind to one molecule of oxygen , so a single hemoglobin can carry up to four oxygen molecules at the same time . Previous studies have found that , although each subunit can potentially bind oxygen on its own , the subunits actually work together to help each other bind to oxygen in the body . Two biochemical properties of hemoglobin affect how it carries oxygen molecules . First , oxygen-binding affinity , or how tightly the protein can bind to oxygen; and secondly cooperativity , or the degree to which the subunits interact with each other to bind oxygen more tightly . Mammals of different shapes and sizes have different requirements for transporting oxygen from the lungs to organ tissues , which have shaped their hemoglobin proteins over evolutionary timescales . While the contribution of affinity to hemoglobin evolution in animals of different sizes has been addressed in the past , the role of cooperativity in hemoglobin adapting to body size has remained unclear . Here , Rapp and Yifrach used a mathematical approach to analyze existing data from 14 different mammals – including mice , sheep , humans and elephants – on how oxygen binds to hemoglobin . Using this approach , they were able to explain why different mammalian hemoglobins present different oxygen-binding affinity and cooperativity values . Furthermore , they demonstrated that the cooperativity values were very close to the maximum they could be for each version of hemoglobin . These findings suggest that , as mammals evolved , genetic mutations that altered the oxygen-binding affinity or the ability of hemoglobin subunits to cooperate may have allowed hemoglobin proteins to adapt to meet the oxygen needs of mammals of different sizes and shapes . In the future , the approach used by Rapp and Yifrach could be adapted to study how other proteins that bind molecules in a cooperative manner have evolved .
Malaria remains a devastating disease in many parts of the world . Malaria parasites enter the host via the skin , where they are deposited by infected mosquitoes as they look for blood . The parasites must exit the skin to reach the liver , where they multiply and ultimately infect red blood cells , where they cause the symptoms of the disease . In the skin , the parasites must move to find blood vessels that they enter to travel via the blood circulation to the liver . Only about 10–20% of parasites make it out of the skin , making this a bottleneck for the parasite . Scientists have been working to develop vaccines that would protect people against malaria . One way these could work would be to stop malaria parasites from leaving the skin and entering the blood vessels . But to do that , more needs to be learnt about how the parasites move in the skin and enter the blood vessels . Hopp et al . , using a mouse model of malaria , created malaria parasites that produce a fluorescent protein that allows the parasites to be tracked after they have been injected into the skin of a mouse's ear . This revealed that the parasites have two ways of moving . After first being injected , the parasites move quickly and freely . The parasites slow down when they come close to a blood vessel and move on or around the vessel for some time before entering it . During this stage of movement , the parasites tend to move in paths that follow the curvature of the blood vessels , which may improve how well they make contact with the blood vessel surface and may enable them to find the areas of the vessels best suited for entry . Next , Hopp et al . investigated how two parasite mutants move through mouse skin . Both mutants had previously been found to be less likely than wild-type parasites to exit the inoculation site . Hopp et al . found that one of the mutants moves slowly after being injected and so explores a smaller tissue volume than normal and encounters fewer blood vessels . The second mutant parasite spends more time than normal moving on the surface of the blood vessels , but finds it difficult to enter them . Continuing this work will allow us to learn more about the interactions between the parasite and the blood vessels , which in turn could reveal key events that could be targeted by a vaccine . Furthermore , the significant amount of time that the parasites spend moving and looking for blood vessels in the skin could be a good time to target them with antibodies and prevent malaria infection .
Cells use the genetic instructions provided by genes in particular combinations called ‘modules’ to perform particular jobs . Very different organisms can share many of the same modules because certain abilities are fundamental to the survival of all cells and so they have been retained over the course of evolution . That said , these modules may not necessarily involve the same genes because it is often possible to achieve the same result using different components . One way to study how those modules can diversify is to deliberately disrupt one of the genes in a module , and observe how the organism and its descendants respond over many generations . Other genes in these organisms may acquire genetic mutations that enable the genes to take on the role of the missing protein . However , the removal of a single component can be detrimental to the survival of the organisms or may affect many different processes . This can make it difficult to understand what is going on . A gene called BEM1 is crucial for yeast cells to establish polarity , that is , to allow the different sides of a cell to become distinct from one another . This activity is essential for the yeast to replicate itself . Previous studies have shown that the BEM1 gene had a different role in other species of fungi , which suggests that yeast may have other genes that previously assumed the role that BEM1 does now . In this study , Laan et al . removed BEM1 from yeast and allowed the population of mutant cells to evolve for a thousand generations . The approach differs from previous studies because Laan et al . deliberately selected for yeast that had acquired multiple genetic mutations that can together almost fully compensate for the loss of BEM1 . Initially , the mutant cells grew very slowly , were abnormal in shape and likely to burst open . However , by the end of the experiment , the cells were able to grow almost as well as the original yeast cells had before the gene deletion . Genetic analysis revealed that the deletion of BEM1 triggers the inactivation of other genes that are also involved in the regulation of polarity , which largely restored the ability of the disrupted polarity module to work . This restoration follows a ‘reproducible trajectory’ , as the same genes were switched off in the same order in different populations of yeast that were studied at the same time . The work is an example of reproducible evolution , whereby a specific order of changes to gene activity repeatedly enables cells with severe defects in important processes to adapt and restore a gene module , using whatever components they have left . The next challenge will be to understand how the particular roles of important modules affect their adaptability .
Humans , in general , are not particularly good at making economic decisions . People can be influenced by unhelpful biases: such as ‘loss aversion’ where a person views losses as more significant than gains . Sometimes these biases stop us making the decisions that offer the best reward , as such , they raise the question: why do these biases exist at all ? One way to examine this question is by looking at the brain activity of people making economic decisions . Two regions near the front of the brain are known to be involved in human decision-making in response to rewards . However , many researchers disagree as to what these two regions are actually doing when we make economic decisions . Much of the research in this area has asked participants to essentially gamble on a series of independent events , which typically provide a one-off instant reward with no further positive consequences . However , these tasks do not accurately reflect real economic decisions . In real life situations , people tend to take time to make a decision , and weigh up the potential long-term costs and benefits of an investment . Indeed the decision itself may be deferred until enough information is gathered; for example , very few people would choose to buy a house on the spur of the moment . Now Tsetsos et al . have attempted to bridge the gap between previous studies and everyday experiences by designing a task that encompasses many of the factors involved in real life decision-making . In this task , participants were given the option of deciding whether to commit to , or reject , an investment opportunity immediately; or to choose to defer making the decision until later—similar to how a person might wait to view different properties before deciding which house to buy . Using brain imaging , Tsetsos et al . found that one of the two brain regions ( called the dorsal ACC for short ) was involved in weighing up the cost of rejecting an offer , but not accepting it . The other region ( called the rostromedial prefrontal cortex or rmPFC ) was involved in assessing the value of an offer only when the participant decided to defer making a decision , and not when they decided to commit . Furthermore , by using computer simulations , Tsetsos et al . found that , with this more realistic task , biases such as loss aversion were in fact beneficial and helped participants to make decisions that increased their financial payoff . This suggests that the ‘unhelpful biases’ often seen in traditional decision making tasks may be a result of participants’ real life strategies failing to work when applied to an artificial situation . In other words , perhaps humans are not so bad at economic decision-making after all .
Many biological features of animals , including body temperature and hormone levels , follow daily rhythms that repeat every 24 hours . These so-called circadian rhythms are driven by an internal body clock and are essential for the organism to adapt to the daily cycle of light and dark . Circadian rhythms also take place inside individual cells – for example , the amount of a given protein in a cell often rises and falls over each 24-hour period . To generate these daily fluctuations , the processes used to make proteins based on the instructions encoded within a gene must be carefully controlled . Genes are first copied or ‘transcribed' into intermediate molecules called messenger RNAs ( mRNAs ) . These mRNA molecules must then travel out of the cell’s nucleus before they can be de-coded to produce proteins . This means that daily fluctuations in mRNA and protein levels could occur because the rate at which the DNA is transcribed fluctuates or because controlling the steps that occur after transcription . However it is not clear how much these post-transcriptional steps contribute to circadian rhythms inside cells . Recently , structures called paraspeckles were seen inside the nucleus . These structures are made from a long RNA molecule that does not code for a protein , and a number of proteins that can bind mRNA molecules . Paraspeckles are thought to prevent certain mRNAs from leaving the nucleus and therefore stop them from being decoded to make proteins . Torres et al . have now investigated whether paraspeckles may play a role in circadian rhythms . Torres et al . looked at the long non-coding RNA and several proteins that are known to be components of paraspeckles in cells taken from the pituitary glands of rats using a variety of techniques . These cells were chosen because they were known to have a working circadian clock . The analysis showed that the levels of these components , as well as the number of paraspeckles within the nucleus , changed over the course of a daily cycle . Torres et al . then confirmed that mRNAs containing a sequence that is known to recruit mRNAs to paraspeckes ( the IRAlu sequence ) could be also retained in the nucleus or released with a circadian rhythm . This pattern was lost when the paraspeckles were disrupted . These findings suggest that daily fluctuations in protein levels can be post-transcriptionally controlled by paraspeckles rhythmically retaining mRNAs in the nucleus . Future studies could explore whether it may be possible to control circadian rhythms by targeting the paraspeckles , which could help to improve conditions where the internal body clock goes wrong .
The electrical signals that neurons use to rapidly transmit information along their length cannot cross the gaps—called synapses—that separate one neuron from the next . Instead , the signals trigger the release of chemicals called neurotransmitters , which then stimulate a corresponding electrical signal in a neighboring neuron . Inside the neuron , the neurotransmitters are packaged into structures called vesicles and are released across the synapse when the vesicle merges with the cell membrane at a location called the active zone . Calcium ions move through proteins known as calcium channels , which are embedded in the neuron's cell membrane in the active zone , and cause the vesicle to merge with the neuron's membrane and release its contents into the synapse . A protein called Munc13 is also important for helping to release neurotransmitters , which it does by binding to various other proteins in the active zone known to be critical for the process of allowing the vesicle and cell membranes to merge . Now , Calloway et al . have found that Munc13 also interacts with the calcium channels . The experiments used genetic tools to eliminate or mutate Munc13 in rat neurons . Electrical impulses were then applied to these neurons and the flow of calcium ions was monitored at the synapses . The results showed that Munc13 controls when the calcium channels open and close in response to nerve impulses . Further experiments revealed the specific region of the Munc13 protein that interacts with the calcium channels . Mutations to this part of Munc13 affected the ability of the calcium channels to open and close . The results indicate that active zone proteins such as Munc13 can potentially play multiple roles in controlling neurotransmitter release . It seems unlikely that Munc13 is the only calcium channel partner that helps sculpt information transfer at synapses . Future studies could investigate how multiple partners work together to determine the behavior of calcium channels in specific locations and at specific times , and how this interplay affects how well synapses work in the brain .
Cells with complex interlocking shapes , similar to pieces of a jigsaw puzzle , cover the surface of many leaves . Why do these curious shapes form , and what benefit do they provide to the plant ? Plant cells are like small balloons surrounded by a strong cell wall . Their internal pressure can be higher than the pressure in a car tire . It is this pressure that gives non-woody plant tissue its shape . Take away the pressure , and the plant wilts . The pressure inside a cell creates a lot of mechanical stress on the epidermal cell walls – those that make up the surface of the plant . The extent of the stress depends on the shape and size of the cells; for example , large cells bulge out and experience more stress than small cells . This could mean that the shape of puzzle cells is an adaptation used by plants to reduce the stress on their surface . To investigate this possibility , Sapala , Runions et al . developed a computer simulation that models how a plant grows and re-creates a variety of realistic puzzle cell shapes . The simulations show that ‘paving’ the leaf surface with puzzle shaped cells instead of more regularly shaped cells reduces the stress in the epidermal cell walls . Counterintuitively , the simulations also show that complex puzzle shapes develop in parts of the plant that grow isotropically ( uniformly in all directions ) , such as leaves . If a plant organ grows mostly in one direction , like in a root or stem , long thin cells are sufficient to reduce the stress on the epidermal cell wall . Sapala , Runions et al . tested this idea by analyzing the shape of organs and cells in many plant species and by genetically modifying growth directions in Arabidopsis thaliana plants . This confirmed that puzzle cell shape is related to both organ shape and how isotropically the plant grows . It had previously been proposed that mobile chemical signals passed between cells coordinate the process by which a lobe in one puzzle cell matches an indentation in its neighbor . However , the model developed by Sapala , Runions et al . does not require such chemical signaling . Instead , mechanical forces and the shape the puzzle cells themselves may transmit this information . Mechanical forces are known to have important effects on the shape and behavior of cells from other species too . For example , animal cells can develop into different cell types depending on the stiffness of the surface they are placed on . Now that Sapala , Runions et al . have highlighted that plant cell shapes also adapt to mechanical forces , further research is needed to uncover how these forces are sensed .
A gene is a segment of DNA that usually carries the information required to build a protein , the molecules responsible for most of life’s processes . This DNA segment is organized in modules , with coding sections separated by portions of non-coding DNA known as introns . When a gene is ‘turned on’ , it gets faithfully copied into a molecule of pre-messenger RNA ( pre-mRNA ) , which contains the alternating coding and non-coding modules . Before it can serve as a template to create a protein , this pre-mRNA must be processed and all the introns removed by a structure called the spliceosome . If this delicate process goes wrong , inaccurate protein templates are produced that may be damaging for the cell . Spliceosomes are precise molecular ‘scissors’ that can recognize where a coding module stops and an intron starts , and then make a snip in the pre-mRNA to remove the non-coding sequence . The spliceosome is a complex molecular machine formed of numerous parts – including one known as U1 snRNP – that must come together . When a pre-mRNA has several introns , a spliceosome assembles anew for each of them . Braun et al . designed a new method that allows them to ‘tag’ spliceosomes extracted from a human cell and follow them as they come together . The experiments show that spliceosomes working on different introns in the same pre-mRNA actually help each other out . As one assembles , this helps the spliceosome that processes the neighboring intron to get built . In particular , the U1 snRNPs processing nearby introns collaborate to promote the assembly and activity of the spliceosomes . This teamwork is likely important to guarantee that multiple introns are cut out quickly and accurately .
Proteins carry out almost every process that happens inside a cell . Like all machines , their ability to work properly depends on their three-dimensional shape and structure . To make proteins , building blocks called amino acids are first assembled into a string that , like wool in a sweater , needs to be knitted into the final three-dimensional structure . How proteins reach their 3D structure is called “folding” , and when protein folding fails , or is not so efficient , it can cause very severe diseases . Protein folding is not as nicely progressive as knitting a sweater: it is more like putting all the wool into a big messy blob that then suddenly turns into a protein with the right three-dimensional structure . Cells have machinery that can detect messy-looking molecules and destroy them . Therefore , new proteins need to be hidden from this machinery until they have finished folding . A human protein called LRP6 is found on the surface of cells and it plays an important role in allowing cells to communicate with each other . Like many other proteins , LRP6 is produced inside the cell in a compartment called the endoplasmic reticulum and is then exported to the cell surface . In 2008 , a team of researchers found that LRP6 is modified in a particular way known as S-palmitoylation before it leaves the endoplasmic reticulum . This suggested that there is a system that helps this protein to fold correctly . Here Perrody , Abrami et al . – including some of the researchers from the previous work – used biochemical techniques to investigate how LRP6 folds . The experiments show that another type of protein modification that involves attaching a molecule called ubiquitin to LRP6 promotes this protein’s folding . Once the protein is folded , the ubiquitin is removed from LRP6 by an enzyme called USP19 . Further experiments show that this system also helps to ensure that two other important proteins fold correctly . The next steps following on from this work are to identify the other molecules involved in this protein folding system . A future challenge is to find out how this system protects new proteins from being degraded while they are still folding .
When faced with a decision to make , humans and other animals reflect on past experiences of similar situations to choose the best option . However , in an uncertain situation , this decision process requires balancing two competing priorities: exploiting options that are expected to be rewarding ( exploitation ) , and exploring alternatives that could be more valuable ( exploration ) . Decision making and exploration are disrupted in many mental disorders , some of which can differ in either presentation or risk of development across women and men . This raises the question of whether sex differences in exploration and exploitation could contribute to the vulnerability to these conditions . To shed light on this question , Chen et al . studied exploration in male and female mice as they played a video game . The mice had the option to touch one of two locations on a screen for a chance to win a small reward . The likelihood of success was different between the two options , and so the mice were incentivized to determine which was the more rewarding button . While the mice were similarly successful in finding rewards regardless of sex , on average male mice were more likely to keep exploring between the options while female mice more quickly gained confidence in an option . These differences were stronger during uncertain periods of learning and exploration than when making choices in a well-known situation , indicating that periods of uncertainty are when the influence of sex on cognition are most visible . However , not every female or male mouse was the same – there was as much variability within a sex as was seen between sexes . These results indicate that sex mechanisms , along with many other influences cause individual differences in the cognitive processes important for decision making . The approach used by Chen et al . could help to study individual differences in cognition in other species , and shed light on how individual differences in decision-making processes could contribute to risk and resilience to mental disorders .
The inside of a cell contains many different compartments called organelles , which are separated by membranes . Each organelle is composed of a unique set of proteins and performs specific roles in the cell . The endoplasmic reticulum , or ER for short , is an organelle where many proteins are produced . Most of these proteins are then released from the cell or sorted to other organelles . The ER has a strict quality control system that ensures any faulty proteins are quickly marked for the cell to destroy . However , the destruction process itself does not happen in the ER , so faulty proteins first need to leave this organelle . This is achieved by a group of proteins known as endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation machinery ( or ERAD for short ) . To extract a faulty protein from the ER , proteins of the ER and outside the ER cooperate . First , an ERAD protein called Doa10 attaches a small protein tag called ubiquitin to the faulty proteins to mark them for destruction . Then , outside of the ER , a protein called Cdc48 ‘grabs’ the ubiquitin tag and pulls . But that is only part of the story . Many of the proteins made by the ER have tethers that anchor them firmly to the membrane , making them much harder to remove . To get a better idea of how the extraction works , Schmidt et al . rebuilt the ERAD machinery in a test tube . This involved purifying proteins from yeast and inserting them into artificial membranes , allowing closer study of each part of the process . This revealed that attaching ubiquitin tags to faulty proteins is only one part of Doa10's role; it also participates in the extraction itself . Part of Doa10 resides within the membrane , and this ‘membrane-spanning domain’ can interact with faulty proteins , loosening their membrane anchors . At the same time , Cdc48 pulls from the outside . This pulling force causes the faulty proteins to unfold , allowing them to pass through the membrane . Given these findings , the next step is to find out exactly how Doa10 works by looking at its three-dimensional structure . This could have implications not only for the study of ERAD , but of similar quality control processes in other organelles too . A build-up of faulty proteins can cause diseases like neurodegeneration , so understanding how cells remove faulty proteins could help future medical research .
Morphogens play a crucial role in determining how cells are organized in developing organisms . These chemical signals act over a wide area , and the amount of signal each cell receives typically initiates a sequence of events that spatially pattern the multiple cells of an organ or tissue . One of the most well-studied groups of morphogens are the hedgehog proteins , which are involved in the development of many animals , ranging from flies to humans . In fruit flies , hedgehog proteins kickstart a cascade of molecular changes that switch on a set of 'target' genes . They do this by ultimately altering the activity of a protein called cubitus interruptus , which comes in two lengths: a long version called Ci-155 and a short version called Ci-75 . When hedgehog is absent , Ci-155 is kept in an inactive state in the cytoplasm , where it is slowly converted into its shorter form , Ci-75: this repressor protein is then able to access the nucleus , where it switches ‘off’ the target genes . However , when a hedgehog signal is present , the processing of Ci into its shorter form is inhibited . Instead , Ci-155 becomes activated by a separate mechanism that allows the long form protein to enter the nucleus and switch ‘on’ the target genes . But it was unclear whether hedgehog requires both of these mechanisms in order to act as a morphogen and regulate the activity of developmental genes . To answer this question , Little et al . mutated the gene for Ci in the embryo of fruit flies , so that the Ci-155 protein could no longer be processed into Ci-75 . Examining the developing wings of these flies revealed that the genes targeted by hedgehog are still activated in the correct pattern . In some parts of the wing , Ci-75 is required to switch off specific sets of genes . But when Little et al . blocked these genes , by adding a gene that constantly produces the Ci repressor in the presence or absence of hedgehog , the adult flies still developed normally structured wings . This suggests that hedgehog does not need to regulate the processing of Ci-155 into Ci-75 in order to perform its developmental role . Previous work showed that when one of the major mechanisms used by hedgehog to activate Ci-155 is blocked , fruit flies are still able to develop normal wings . Taken together with the findings of Little et al . , this suggests that the two mechanisms induced by hedgehog can compensate for each other , and independently regulate the development of the fruit fly wing . These mechanisms , which are also found in humans , have been linked to birth defects and several common types of cancer , and understanding how they work could help the development of new treatments .
Despite being unpleasant , pain is critical to survival because it acts as a warning for damage or impending harm . Day-to-day pain like a stubbed toe or a pricked finger is called acute pain . It alerts the body to harm but only lasts a short time and usually goes away on its own . Pain that persists more than three months after the damaged tissue has healed is known as chronic pain , and it is a serious problem that is often difficult to treat . Learning more about the causes of chronic pain is necessary to help develop more effective therapies . Nerve pathways in the spinal cord help process pain and other sensory information from the skin and relay it to the brain . These pathways include sensory fibers that carry pain information from the body to the spinal cord , as well as cells that relay this information to the brain . But not much is known about how the nerves and cells in this region prioritize or refine sensory information before sending it to the brain . Now , Smith et al . have used mice to show that nerve cells in the spinal cord that produce the protein calretinin can act as a pain amplifier , causing it to persist . A technique called optogenetics was used to turn on calretinin nerve cells by exposing them to light . This caused the mice to behave like they were in pain even though they had not been harmed , and the behaviour stopped when they were treated with morphine , a powerful painkiller . Further experiments showed that calretinin nerve cells form a highly interconnected network in the spinal cord . These results show that calretinin nerve cells can ‘jump-start’ the pain pathway within the spinal cord , even when there is no painful stimulation of the skin . Turning on these cells even briefly causes behaviours associated with prolonged pain . By revealing that networks of calretinin nerve cells in the spinal cord act like an in-built pain amplifier , the experiments identify these cells as a potential target for new treatments for chronic pain .
In many animals , the skull is made of several separate bones that are loosely joined during childhood and only fuse into one piece when the animal stops growing . A genetic disease called Carpenter syndrome causes the bones of the skull to fuse early in life , stopping it from growing correctly . Carpenter syndrome is often caused by changes to the gene responsible for making a protein called RAB23 . RAB23 helps move other molecules and cell components between different parts of the cell , and is therefore involved in a number of cellular processes . Previous studies suggest that RAB23 has a role in many parts of the body during development . Yet , it is unclear which cells in the skull depend on RAB23 activity and how this protein is controlled . To answer this question , Hasan et al . grew pieces of developing skull bones that had been taken from mice lacking the RAB23 protein in the laboratory . Examining these samples revealed that RAB23 is active in cells called osteoblasts that add new bone to the edge of each piece of the skull as it grows . Hasan et al . also found that RAB23 regulates two cellular signaling pathways – called the hedgehog pathway and the fibroblast growth factor pathway – that interact with one another and co-ordinate skull development . These findings show how RAB23 controls the growth and fusion of skull bones in developing animals . This could improve our understanding of the role RAB23 plays in other processes during development . It also sheds light on the mechanisms of Carpenter syndrome which may inform new approaches for treating patients .
Genetic material is contained within molecules of DNA . In plants and many other organisms , these DNA molecules are packaged around proteins called histones to make a structure known as chromatin . Altering how the DNA is packaged in chromatin can control the activity of genes . For example , a group of proteins called the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 ( PRC2 ) adds methyl tags to histones , which can alter the packaging of chromatin to lower the activity of particular genes . When a cell divides , it is sometimes important that genes in the daughter cells have similar levels of activity as the parent cell . This allows individual cells to ‘remember’ past events , such as exposure to cold temperatures or other environmental conditions . The pattern of methyl tags on histones can be passed onto the daughter cells , but it is not clear if this is actually responsible for providing the memory . One gene that PRC2 regulates is called FLC , which influences when a plant called Arabidopsis produces flowers . If the plants are exposed to cold temperatures , the activity of FLC is repressed . FLC activity remains low after the period of cold has ended to ensure that the plants produce flowers at an appropriate time . If this 'memory of cold' is held locally in the chromatin of the FLC gene , then it should be possible for two copies of the FLC gene in the same cell to show different gene activities . However , if the memory is stored more globally inside each cell by other proteins , then the two copies should have identical gene activities . To distinguish between these two possibilities , Berry et al . added different fluorescent tags to two copies of the FLC gene in Arabidopsis plants , which allowed the activity of each gene copy to be tracked in individual cells under a microscope . The experiments show that one copy of FLC may be switched off , while the other remains switched on inside the same cell . Furthermore , it was found that this pattern of gene activity is passed onto the daughter cells when the original cell divides . Berry et al . 's findings show that the memory of FLC gene activity is stored locally in the chromatin of the FLC gene itself . The alteration of histones by PRC2 is one important aspect of the packaging of chromatin . The next challenge is to identify what other features of chromatin are required for a gene to be able to store this memory locally .
Proteins are composed of long chains of amino acids that fold on themselves to form three-dimensional structures . Many proteins are made in a compartment within the cell called the endoplasmic reticulum and ‘chaperone’ proteins help them fold correctly . Cells carefully regulate the levels of chaperone proteins . If there are too few chaperones in the cell , then newly-made proteins may fold incorrectly and interrupt other processes . On the other hand , if too many chaperones are present they may slow down the protein folding process . If a cell experiences stressful conditions , or if there is a sudden demand for more proteins to be made , protein folding can be disrupted . This leads to an increase in the number of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum and so the cell increases the levels of chaperone proteins to cope with this . Hsp70 chaperones are one family of chaperone proteins . These proteins can be present in a cell as single molecules ( monomers ) or as a group of several chaperone molecules ( oligomers ) . Previous research has suggested that the chaperone proteins in oligomers are inactive , but the oligomers may be rapidly broken down into monomers when the cell needs to fold more proteins . A region within the Hsp70 called the ‘interdomain linker’ is important for regulating the chaperone activity , but it is not clear if this is connected to the formation of oligomers . Preissler et al . used biochemical techniques to study how an Hsp70 protein in the endoplasmic reticulum called BiP forms oligomers . The experiments show that oligomers form when the interdomain linker of one BiP molecule is bound to the region of an adjacent BiP molecule that is normally reserved for binding to unfolded proteins . The presence of the interdomain linker makes it more difficult for unfolded proteins to bind . Further experiments challenged cells with chemicals that caused the number of unfolded proteins in the cells to increase . Under these conditions , there was a decrease in the number of BiP molecules associated with oligomers . Preissler et al . propose that BiP oligomers act as reservoirs to store BiP molecules when they aren't needed by the cell . However , when the levels of unfolded proteins rise , cells can rapidly break up these oligomers to make active monomers that help to deal with the excess numbers of unfolded proteins . Further work is needed to understand how changes in the number of unfolded proteins in cells leads to the formation and disassembly of BiP oligomers .
A group of “flexible filamentous” viruses can cause serious diseases in a wide variety of crops and other plants . Each virus particle contains a single molecule called ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) , which is protected by hundreds of copies of a coat protein . The RNA and coat proteins are arranged in a helical fashion to make a flexible rod-shaped particle . The flexibility of these viruses makes it difficult to carry out in-depth studies of their three-dimensional structures . As a result , we do not know how the RNA and coat proteins interact to form the structure of each virus particle . Agirrezabala et al . used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy ( or cryoEM for short ) to generate a highly detailed three-dimensional model of a flexible filamentous virus called Pepino Mosaic Virus . Agirezabala et al . ’s findings reveal how the virus particles assemble , and the interactions between the coat protein and the ssRNA . Unexpectedly , the structure of the coat protein from Pepino Mosiac Virus is very similar to the structure of “nucleoproteins” from a group of viruses called the Phleboviruses , which infect animals . This similarity is striking and suggests that the gene that encodes these proteins has been transferred between the two groups of viruses during evolution . A future challenge is to find out whether this similarity extends to other groups of viruses .
Antibodies play a key role in the immune system . These proteins stick to harmful substances , such as bacteria and other disease-causing pathogens , marking them for destruction or blocking their attack . Antibodies are highly selective , and this ability has been used to target particular molecules in research , diagnostics and therapies . Typically , antibodies need to stick to a particular segment , or ‘epitope’ , on the surface of a cell in order to trigger an immune response . Knowing where these regions are can help explain how these immune proteins work and aid the development of more effective drugs and diagnostic tools . One way to identify these sites is to measure the nano-distance between antibodies and other features on the cell surface . To do this , researchers take multiple images of the cell the antibody is attached to using light microscopy . Various statistical methods are then applied to create an ‘average image’ that has a higher resolution and can therefore be used to measure the distance between these two points more accurately . While this approach works on fixed shapes , like a perfect circle , it cannot handle human cells and bacteria which are less uniform and have more complex surfaces . Here , Kumra Ahnlide et al . have developed a new method called SiteLoc which can overcome this barrier . The method involves two fluorescent probes: one attached to a specific site on the cell’s surface , and the other to the antibody or another molecule of interest . These two probes emit different colours when imaged with a fluorescent microscope . To cope with objects that have uneven surfaces , such as cells and bacteria , the two signals are transformed to ‘follow’ the same geometrical shape . The relative distance between them is then measured using statistical methods . Using this approach , Kumra Ahnlide et al . were able to identify epitopes on a bacterium , and measure distances on the surface of human red blood cells . The SiteLoc system could make it easier to develop antibody-based treatments and diagnostic tools . Furthermore , it could also be beneficial to the wider research community who could use it to probe other questions that require measuring nanoscale distances .
Diseases of the heart and blood vessels are linked with high blood pressure . The causes of most cases of high blood pressure are unknown , but it is often accompanied by the reduced flow of blood through small vessels in the skin and other parts of the body that are a long way from the heart . It is not clear why this change happens or why it tends to get worse over time in people with high blood pressure that has not been treated . Previous research has shown that when a tissue is starved of oxygen , blood flow to that tissue will increase . The HIF family of proteins help to increase blood flow to tissues in these low-oxygen situations . To investigate what role the skin plays in the flow of blood through small vessels , Cowburn et al . exposed mutant mice that cannot produce certain HIF proteins specifically in the skin to low-oxygen conditions . The experiments show that mice lacking either HIF-1α or HIF-2α in the skin have altered responses to oxygen starvation that affected their heart rate , blood pressure , skin temperature and general levels of activity . Mice lacking specific proteins controlled by the HIFs also responded in a similar way . Cowburn et al . also demonstrated that the way normal healthy mice respond to oxygen starvation is more complex than previously thought . Blood pressure and heart rate rise in during the first ten minutes . This is followed by a period of up to 36 hours where blood pressure and heart rate decrease below normal levels . By around 48 hours after exposure to low levels of oxygen , blood pressure and heart rate recover , returning to normal levels . Loss of the HIF proteins or other proteins involved in the response to oxygen starvation specifically in the skin affect when this process starts and how long it takes . These findings suggest that the responses of the skin to environmental challenges may have substantial effects on the how the heart pumps blood around the body . More studies are needed to understand how the HIFs and other proteins may contribute to high blood pressure and diseases affecting the heart and blood vessels .
Nerve cells called neurons carry information around the body in the form of electrical impulses and pass signals to each another to form circuits that link different organs and tissues . Mapping out the neurons in the brain can reveal how different circuits contribute to an animal’s behavior . Yet , because the brains of mammals contain millions of neurons , these circuits are often difficult to untangle . One way to tease apart circuits of neurons uses a technique called optogenetics , which involves manipulating the genes inside neurons such that the cells produce a light-sensitive protein and respond to blasts of light . The aim is to activate a specific neuron and then see which other neurons are activated shortly afterwards , revealing a connected circuit . However , exposure to light can be imprecise . Also , the neurons in the brain are so densely packed that the nerve endings from neighboring neurons often overlap without actually being connected . This makes it unclear if activated neurons are truly part of the same circuit or simply bystanders reacting to the same nearby blast of light . To overcome this limitation , Baker et al . developed a new optogenetic approach with two important features . First , the approach makes use of a light-sensitive protein called channelrhodopsin that had been modified to confine it to the cell body of each neuron and exclude it from the nerve endings . Second , pulses of laser light were specifically shaped to target only the cell body of an individual neuron . Baker et al . show that this new method can activate neurons inside slices of mouse brain without affecting the neighboring neurons . This allowed circuits of neurons to be mapped in fine detail . This new optogenetic method is expected to shed light on the patterns of nerve signals that contribute to animal behavior . The approach may also be modified to use other light-sensitive proteins or investigate how neural circuits are altered in animal models of human disorders like autism and schizophrenia .
The bodies of humans and other animals contain many types of cells that perform different roles in the body . Most cells in the body carry the same DNA , which is arranged into sections known as genes . The marked differences between cell types arise because different sets of genes are switched on or ‘expressed’ . Proteins called transcription factors control which genes are expressed by binding to DNA and recruiting groups of accessory proteins . However , it is not clear how they interact with each other and with the accessory proteins to decide whether to express a gene . For instance , it is thought that some accessory proteins may provide energy for this process , but it is unknown whether the energy is used continuously or only for a short time . Insights from physics suggest that the former could have more powerful effects . In 2014 , a team of researchers reported using a microscopy approach , known as single-molecule imaging , to follow two transcription factors called Sox2 and Oct4 in cells from mice . After analyzing the data , the researchers concluded that Sox2 and Oct4 had a specific order of binding to DNA , with Sox2 often binding first and then assisting Oct4 to bind . Now Biddle et al . report that the claim made in the 2014 study is unsupported because of errors in the way the data were analyzed . In particular , Biddle et al . argue that what the earlier study actually calculated is not an order of binding but a measure of whether energy is being continuously used when Sox2 and Oct4 bind to DNA . Biddle et al . reanalyzed the data from the 2014 work and concluded that Sox2 increases the extent of Oct4 binding to DNA , while Oct4 decreases the amount of Sox2 binding to DNA . Mathematical models suggest this may be due to the continuous use of energy as the two proteins bind to DNA . Alternatively , it could also happen if Sox2 and Oct4 helped each other to bind at some sites on DNA and hindered each other from binding in other places , even if energy is only used for a short time . These findings reveal that there is unexpected complexity in how transcription factors bind to DNA . The next step following on from this work is to carry out experiments that test the two possible explanations for how Sox2 and Oct4 interact on DNA . Including physics in the analysis may help describe more accurately the biology of how transcription factors determine gene expression . Understanding this process will shed new light on many important biological questions and may aid the development of gene therapy and other new medical techniques .
An immune system can fight bacterial infections , ensuring an animal’s health and survival . However , mounting an immune response to a bacterial infection requires a lot of energy . It also can be potentially dangerous if the immune system becomes too active . Therefore , avoiding bacteria and not getting infected to begin with may be a better strategy to stay healthy . Fruit flies , like humans , can detect dangerous substances in the environment via their sense of smell , but it is not known whether they also detect disease-causing organisms through their sense of taste . Bacterial molecules called lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) can alert the immune system to the presence of dangerous bacteria . Previous studies have found that when flies get in contact with LPS they begin cleaning themselves , which might help prevent infection . However it was not clear how the flies actually detected the LPS . Now , Soldano et al . show that fruit flies can taste LPS and avoid eating or laying eggs on food contaminated with LPS and bacteria . A series of experiments showed that when a fly tastes LPS it stimulates bitter-sensing neurons in the fly’s mouth and throat . The experiments also revealed that the protein that activates these neurons in response to LPS is the same protein that acts in humans as detector of pungent chemicals contained in ordinary food items like mustard , garlic and wasabi . This suggests this protein , called TRPA1 , is part of a key survival mechanism that has been preserved in many species throughout evolution . Soldano et al . showed that a fly’s senses and nervous system are actively involved in protecting it from bacterial infection . This is particularly important to flies , because unlike humans they don’t develop resistance to future infections with the same bacteria . Future studies are needed to determine if flies use their sense of taste to detect other chemicals that are signs of infections . Additionally , studies are needed to determine if the activated bitter-sensing nerves alert the fly’s immune system to a potential infection .
To defend our bodies against a variety of foreign microbes , our immune system makes cells called T cells that can identify these invaders and help to destroy them . There are several types of T cells that play different roles in the immune response: some activate other immune cells , while others destroy cells that have been infected by viruses or other pathogens . T cells develop in a specialized organ called the thymus , where they go through a rigorous selection process before being released as mature T cells into the rest of the body . This selection process includes eliminating individual T cells that are found to be sub-standard , perhaps because they might mistake our own cells for enemy cells . However , many of the details of the later stages of T cell development are not fully understood . Han et al . have now found that a protein called Zfp335 that is involved in the production of mature T cells . Mice carrying a mutation in the gene that makes this protein have fewer mature T cells than normal mice . Han et al . also reveal that Zfp335 is a transcription factor that can control whether or not other genes are expressed as proteins , and further show that one of these proteins , Ankle2 , has an important role in the production of mature T cells . A next step in the work is to define exactly how Zfp335 controls the expression of these genes . It will also be important to determine whether mutations in Zfp335 contribute to human T-cell immunodeficiency .
Many genes carry information for making proteins . To make a protein , a working copy of the information stored in DNA is first copied into a molecule of messenger RNA . These RNA messages are then interpreted by the ribosome , the molecular machine that makes proteins . Many messages are produced from each gene , and each message can be read multiple times . Thus , it should follow that the number of messages produced dictates the number of proteins made . However , this is not the case and the number of proteins produced cannot be completely predicted from knowing the number of messenger RNAs . Cells control how much of a given protein they produce through interactions between the messenger RNAs and other regulatory RNAs . The regulatory RNAs bind directly to a message and impede protein production . Because there are millions of RNAs in a cell , these interactions have evolved to be highly specific . Nevertheless , it seems inevitable that messenger RNAs would encounter other RNAs too , which could short-circuit gene regulation and lead to less protein being produced . Umu et al . have now asked if such short-circuit events are selected against during evolution . Computational tools were used to predict the strength of binding between the RNAs found in the dominant forms of microbial life on Earth: the bacteria and the archaea . This approach revealed that the majority of messenger RNAs bind more weakly to the most common RNA molecules found in cells than would be expected by chance . Weakened binding should prevent the RNA molecules from becoming tangled with each other and ensure that protein levels are not perturbed by unintended interactions between highly expressed messages and other RNAs . To test this hypothesis further , Umu et al . generated versions of the gene for a green fluorescent protein that differed only in how well their messenger RNAs could avoid interacting with the most abundant RNAs in E . coli cells . Those messengers that were designed to avoid interacting with other RNAs yielded far more protein than those that were not . The findings show that taking this kind of avoidance into account can improve predictions about how much protein will be produced and should therefore make it easier to control protein production in experimental systems . Finally , the messenger RNAs of some bacteria do not show such clear avoidance . However , these bacteria have a more complex internal cell structure . This finding hints at an alternative means for avoiding short-circuiting events that could be used by more complicated cells , such of those of animals and plants , which also contain much larger numbers of RNAs .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease , is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder . It occurs when the neurons that control muscles – the motoneurons – disconnect from their target muscles and die . This causes the muscles to weaken and waste away . More and more muscles become affected over time until eventually the muscles that control breathing also become paralyzed . Most patients die within two to five years of diagnosis . Motoneurons consist of a cell body plus a cable-like structure called the axon . The cell body of each motoneuron sits within the spinal cord , and the axon extends out of the spinal cord to the motoneuron’s target muscle . Within the muscle the axon divides into branches , each of which connects with multiple muscle fibers . The breakdown of these connections , known as neuromuscular junctions , is one of the first signs of ALS . Does a motoneuron lose all of its connections with muscle fibers at once , or do the connections break down a few at a time ? This distinction is important as it will help to identify the events that lead to muscle paralysis in ALS . To find out , Martineau et al . studied mice that had two genetic mutations: one that causes ALS and another that produces fluorescent molecules in some motoneurons . This allowed the branches of the motoneurons to be tracked over time with a fluorescence microscope . Martineau et al . found that individual neurons lose their connections to muscle fibers gradually . Moreover , motoneurons grow new branches and form new connections even while losing their old ones . This dual process of pruning and budding lasts for several weeks , until eventually the motoneuron dies . Developing drugs to stabilize neuromuscular junctions during the period when motoneurons gradually disconnect from muscles could be a promising avenue to explore to improve the quality of life of ALS patients . One advantage of this treatment strategy is that neuromuscular junctions in muscles are easier to access than motoneurons inside the spinal cord . To identify potential drugs , future studies will need to focus on the proteins and signals that cause the neuromuscular junctions to break down .
Estrogen is a hormone often known for its role in female development and reproduction . Yet , it also has an impact on many biological processes such as immunity and the health of bones , the heart , or the brain . It usually works by attaching to receptor proteins in specific cells . For instance , estrogen-responsive cells are present in the hypothalamus , the brain area that controls energy levels as well as the body’s temperature and internal clock . Breast cancer cells are also often sensitive to estrogen , with the hormone fuelling the growth of tumors . The drug tamoxifen blocks estrogen receptors , stopping cells from responding to the hormone . As such , it is often used to reduce the likelihood that estrogen-dependent breast cancer will come back after treatment . However , its use can induce hot flashes , changes in bone density , fatigue and other life-altering side effects . Here , Zhang et al . investigated how estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus and a related region known as the preoptic area could be responsible for these side effects in mice . When the rodents were given tamoxifen for 28 days , they experienced changes in temperature , bone density and movement similar to those found in humans . In fact , genetic analyses revealed that the drug altered the way genes were turned on and off in certain cells types in the hypothalamus . Crucially , mice whose hypothalamus and preoptic area lacked estrogen receptors did not experience these behavioral and biological alterations . The findings by Zhang et al . help to understand how the side effects of tamoxifen emerge , singling out estrogen receptors in particular brain regions . This result could help to develop new therapies so that breast cancer can be treated with a better quality of life .
Listeria monocytogenes is a bacterium that can cause serious food poisoning in humans . Infections with this bacterium can be particularly dangerous to young children , pregnant women , the elderly , and individuals with weakened immune systems because they are more susceptible to developing serious complications that can sometimes lead to death . The bacteria infect cells in the lining of the human gut . Cells that detect the bacteria respond by producing proteins called interferons and other signaling proteins that activate the body's immune system to fight the infection . One of the genes that the interferons activate encodes a protein called ISG15 , which helps to defend the body against viruses . However , it is not clear what role ISG15 plays in fighting bacterial infections . Here , Radoshevich et al . studied the role of ISG15 in human cells exposed to L . monocytogenes . The experiments show that ISG15 levels increase in the cells , but that the initial increase does not depend on Interferon proteins . Instead , ISG15 production is triggered by an alternative pathway called the cytosolic surveillance pathway , which is activated by the presence of bacterial DNA inside the cell . Further experiments found that ISG15 can counteract the infections of L . monocytogenes both in cells grown in cultures and in living mice . ISG15 modifies other proteins in the cell to promote the release of proteins called cytokines that help the body to eliminate the bacteria . Radoshevich et al . 's findings reveal a new role for ISG15 in fighting bacterial infections . A future challenge will be to understand the molecular details of how ISG15 triggers the release of cytokines .
Proteins are folded into particular shapes in order to carry out their roles in the cell . However , their structures are not rigid: proteins bend and rotate in response to their environment . Identifying these movements is an important part of understanding how proteins work and interact with each other . Unfortunately , when researchers study the structures of proteins , they often look at the ‘average’ shape a protein takes , missing out on other conformations the protein might only be in temporarily . An important technique for studying protein flexibility is known as single molecule Förster resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) . In this technique , two light-sensitive tags are attached to the same protein molecule and give off a signal when they come into close contact . This nano-scale sensor allows structural biologists to get information from individual protein movements that can be lost when looking at the average conformations of proteins . Advances in the instruments used to perform FRET have made observing the motion of individual proteins more widely accessible to non-specialists , but the analysis of the data that these instruments produce still requires a high level of expertise . To lower the barrier for non-specialists to use the technology , and to ensure that experiments can be reproduced on different instruments and by different researchers , Thomsen et al . have developed a new way to automate the data analysis . They used machine learning technology to recognize , filter and characterize data so as to produce reliable results , with the user only needing to perform a couple of steps . This new analysis approach could help expand the use of single-molecule FRET to different fields , allowing researchers to investigate the importance of protein flexibility for certain diseases , or to better understand the roles that proteins have in a cell .
Almost every cell in our bodies has the same genes but at any one time different genes will be switched on in different cells . Much of the DNA in a cell is wrapped around proteins called histones to form a compact structure called chromatin . The DNA in chromatin is often so tightly packed that the genes in the DNA cannot to be accessed or switched on . A complex of proteins called the Polycomb Repressive Complex 1 ( or PRC1 for short ) pack DNA into chromatin to switch genes off ( and keep them off ) in both plants and animals . Other proteins are known to weakly bind to this complex , including one called SCM in fruit flies . However , this protein has not been extensively studied . Bonasio , Lecona et al . have now looked at a related version of this protein that binds to chromatin in humans . These experiments revealed that this protein , which is called SCML2A , also binds to molecules of RNA , and Bonasio , Lecona et al . also identified a previously unrecognized domain within SCML2A that interacts with these molecules . Like other domains in this protein that bind to PRC1 and histones , SCML2A needs its RNA-binding region to be able to bind to chromatin in order to target and switch off certain genes . As such , the findings of Bonasio , Lecona et al . support models whereby RNA molecules can regulate the expression of genes , and suggest that some RNA molecules do this by interacting with SCML2A . Future work is needed to address whether RNA molecules serve as guides that direct SCML2A to specific genes that need to be switched off , or whether these molecules' roles are more complex .
Many genes code for proteins that carry out essential tasks . The instructions in a gene are first copied into a messenger RNA ( mRNA ) , and a molecular machine known as a ribosome reads the copied instructions in groups of three letters at a time ( called codons ) . The ribosome translates the order of the codons into a sequence of amino acids; each amino acid is carried into the ribosome by a transfer RNA ( tRNA ) molecule . As it translates , the ribosome joins each new amino acid to the one before it , like the links in a chain . Finally , the newly built protein chain passes through a tunnel to exit the ribosome . Ribosomes do not build all proteins at a constant rate; there are many examples of proteins that stall when they are in the ribosome exit tunnel . It is thought that this stalling is an important way for cells to control the expression of proteins . SecM is a bacterial protein that stalls while it is being made . Previous research has shown that a sequence of amino acids in SecM ( called the arrest sequence ) interacts with components of the ribosome tunnel . This interaction leads to stalling , and regulates the translation of another important bacterial protein ( called SecA ) that is encoded downstream on the same mRNA as SecM . If SecM-induced stalling takes place , the translation of SecA actually increases . Nevertheless , it remains poorly understood how SecM stalls in the ribosome . Zhang et al . have now solved the structures of SecM proteins stalled inside ribosomes using a method called cryo-electron microscopy . This approach identified two different states of SecM present in the ribosome , which corresponded to two different stalling mechanisms . The addition of an amino acid to a growing protein occurs in stages . First , the tRNA that carries the amino acid to the ribosome and bind to it in a region known as the A-site . After this , the tRNA moves to the P-site where the attached amino acid is incorporated into the elongating protein chain . Zhang et al . observed that the arrest sequence of SecM and the ribosome tunnel interact extensively . These interactions are strong and alter the configuration of both the A-site and P-site of the ribosome . This has two major consequences for translation . First , the tRNA cannot be stably accommodated in the A-site and secondly , its passage to the P-site is slowed down . Both these mechanisms contribute to stalling . This study provides a detailed analysis of how the ribosome can adjust to control translation . It also highlights that codon-specific control of translation constitutes an important component of how gene expression is regulated .
The human eye has many different parts that enable sight . The retina is the light sensitive tissue at the back of the eye , and it contains the fovea , the region that provides the clearest vision . Light must be focused on the retina to create images , a feat achieved by the transparent parts at the front of the eye called the cornea and lens . These parts of the eye are called the optics . Between birth and adulthood , significant changes take place in the eye . Most noticeably , the distance between the optics and the fovea grows by about seven millimeters . Cells called cone photoreceptors , which provide light sensitivity , migrate and pack into the fovea . Finally , the eye’s optics adjust to maintain a sharp focus . At the same time , the brain is learning how to process inputs from the eyes to generate mental images that realistically correspond to the physical world around it . The development of the eye is fascinating in its complexity , but for more and more people , the process does not go as expected . Specifically , a growing proportion of the population has eyes that are too long . This means that , for light reflected by far away objects , the eye’s optics form an image in front of the retina instead of on it . As a result , images of distant objects cannot be seen clearly , a condition known as myopia or nearsightedness . Researchers have also discovered that nearsighted people see less clearly than those who do not use glasses , even when given a sharp image to examine at close range . It has been hypothesized that these deficits result from stretching of the retina as the eye becomes bigger . Until recently , testing this hypothesis by looking at cone photoreceptors directly in the eye was impossible . This is because the optics of all eyes have small imperfections that distort the light passing through them , including any light used to take high resolution microscopic images of the fovea . This hurdle can be overcome using adaptive optics , which means adding a deformable mirror to the instrument being used to image the eye that can adjust to correct the distortion . Wang et al . use a new generation Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope to check the density of cones at the fovea in relation to the size of the eye . They show that although the center of the fovea has fewer cones when the eye is bigger , this effect is more than offset because the longer eye increases magnification . So , if a near-sighted person wearing contacts and someone who does not need glasses stood side-by-side admiring the full moon , the near-sighted person would most likely have more cones sampling the image and should therefore have a higher resolution view . These findings rule out reductions in the density of cone photoreceptors as the cause or effect of visual deficits associated with near-sightedness , adding to the understanding of this common condition .
Microorganisms live in most parts of our body , including the inside of our nose . Most of the microbes are harmless and can even be beneficial to our health . However , some microbes can cause diseases – although they often go unnoticed , as our immune system can remove them before we show any symptoms . For example , the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae can cause diseases such as pneumonia and meningitis , but generally , it lives harmlessly in the nose , and is particularly common in children and the elderly . The longer the bacteria live in the nose before being killed by the immune system , the more likely they are to be transmitted to another person . The amount of time it takes for the immune system to clear the bacteria depends on various factors , such as the age of the person or the bacterium’s defense mechanism and its genetic material . A particularly important aspect is to what subtype , also known as serotype , a bacterium belongs to , which is characterized by differences in the structure of the sugar coating that surrounds the microbe . However , until now , it was not known how much each of these factors contributes . Now , Lees et al . have developed a mathematical model to calculate how long the bacteria are carried in the nose before they are cleared away , and compared it with the genomic data of the bacteria . For this , over 14 , 000 nose swabs from almost 600 children were collected over a two-year period . In their model , Lees et al . calculated that the bacteria’s genetics explained over 60% of the variability in survival time . They also found that the serotype was the most important individual factor that influenced how long a bacterium could survive . The age of the child was less important and only accounted for 5% . In addition , Lees et al . also found that when viruses infected some S . pneumoniae , the bacteria died sooner . A next step will be to confirm the effect of a viral infection on the bacteria’s survival time in a controlled model system , and also replicate the findings in separate population study . Understanding how long people can carry bacteria and transmit them to others may help to develop new vaccination or treatment strategies to control infections . Moreover , the discovery that viruses can negatively affect how long a bacterium lives , could motivate studies to investigate these findings further .
The membrane that surrounds heart muscle cells contains specialized channels that can open and close to control the movements of charged ions into and out of the cell . This ion flow generates the electrical signals that stimulate the heart muscle to contract for each heart beat . Different ion channels influence different steps in the initiation and termination of each electrical signal . For example , the IKs ion channel complex helps to return the cell to a resting state so the heart muscle can relax . This allows chambers of the heart to fill with blood before the next beat pumps blood throughout the body . Mutations that affect IKs cause serious heart conditions that affect heart rhythm , such as Long QT Syndrome . The IKs complex consists of channels that are each made of four copies of a protein called KCNQ1 , through which potassium ions exit the cell . This channel opens in response to changes in the voltage across the cell membrane ( known as the “membrane potential” ) . A small protein subunit called KCNE1 also makes up part of the complex , but it was not clear how many KCNE1 molecules combine with KCNQ1 to form a working channel complex . Several previous studies have reported two different results: that the KCNQ1 channel complex only exists with two KCNE1 molecules , or that the association is flexible , allowing the complex to contain up to four KCNE1 subunits . Murray et al . have now constructed IKs fusion channels out of different numbers of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 molecules to investigate how different KCNQ1:KCNE1 ratios affect how the channel works . Measuring the responses of these modified channels in mammalian cells revealed that channels with four KCNE1 subunits conducted ions better than channels with one or two KCNE1s . The channels containing fewer KCNE1s also opened at lower membrane potentials and after a shorter delay following a change in the membrane potential . Further experiments also supported the theory that up to four independent KCNE1 subunits may be easily added to the IKs ion channel complex . Murray et al . suggest that by being able to form channel complexes containing different numbers of KCNE1 subunits , cells can more flexibly control the rate at which ions flow out of the heart cells to tune the electrical signals that trigger each heart beat . The next challenges will be to determine the composition of the IKs channel complex in adult heart cells and to investigate how the complex might change with disease .
Animals and other multicellular organisms all have at least some ability to regenerate lost or wounded tissues . Zebrafish are particularly good at this to the extent that they can replace damaged or lost body parts with exact replicas of the originals . In 2015 , a team of researchers found that some mutant zebrafish that lack blood cells including immune cells are unable to regenerate lost tissues . This is because the cells that are primed to regenerate die instead , but it was not clear why this happens . Many immune cells have roles in fighting infection and in responding to tissue damage . When a tissue is damaged , the area often becomes inflamed as white blood cells called macrophages flock to the damaged area to protect it from infection and remove damaged cells . Hasegawa et al . – who include several researchers involved in the 2015 study – used genetic approaches to investigate the role of inflammation in tissue regeneration in zebrafish . The experiments show that several genes involved in inflammation – including one called interleukin 1b – were active over longer periods of time in the mutant fish compared with normal zebrafish . The gene produces a signal protein and this prolonged activity causes the primed regenerative cells to die . However , the cells can survive if interleukin 1b activity is quickly suppressed by macrophages . The experiments also show that , in order for tissues to regenerate properly , interleukin 1b needs to be active for only a short period of time . The findings reveal that some inflammation is needed for tissues to regenerate , but that a more severe inflammatory response can block the process . A future challenge will be to identify the signals that macrophages produce to suppress inflammation to allow tissues to regenerate . These anti-inflammatory signals may have the potential to be used as drugs to cure chronic inflammatory diseases and boost tissue regeneration potential in humans .
Cells contain many proteins that constantly move about within the cell to carry out tasks that keep the cell running . A protein of average size makes contact with all the other proteins in a typical bacterial cell in a few seconds . This moving about mixes the cell’s contents , which is crucial for its survival and reproduction . Proteins can group together , or with other molecules , to form bigger units . This grouping together depends on the properties of protein surfaces; for example , opposite electrical charges on the surfaces of proteins can cause them to group together . Grouping together proteins causes them to move around cells more slowly . Indeed the ribosome , a protein unit that constructs new proteins and is found in every known species , moves over a hundred times more slowly than the average protein . Finding out how the total electric charge inside the cells of different species affects the mobility of proteins would give us a better idea of how fast tasks can be carried out in cells . Schavemaker , Śmigiel et al . now show that protein surface charge matters a great deal in the gut microbe Escherichia coli . In these cells , negatively charged and neutral proteins move about rapidly whereas positively charged proteins move up to 100 times more slowly . In the salt-loving microbe Haloferax volcanii the positive proteins move relatively fast , but still more slowly than negatively charged and neutral proteins . In all likelihood this is because the protein charges are shielded from each other by large amounts of small charged molecules ( which come from salts ) in the Hfx . volcanii cells . Schavemaker , Śmigiel et al . suggest that positively charged proteins slow down because they bind to negatively charged ribosomes . Because ribosomes are found in all living cells , understanding how they affect how other proteins move around the cell has a wide range of possible applications . For example , biologists and biotechnologists often produce proteins in E . coli for convenient study . Yet very positively charged proteins may bind to ribosomes in E . coli , causing experiments to fail . Using cells that shield charges better , such as Hfx . volcanii or Lactococcus lactis , could solve this issue .
Most animals can respond to injury with some form of tissue regeneration . In mammals , this is limited to wound healing , whereas other vertebrates—such as salamanders and zebrafish—can regenerate parts of internal organs and even entire appendages . The planarian , a flatworm , is even more remarkable , being able to regenerate its head or tail following amputation , and even a whole animal from just a small body fragment . This is particularly impressive given that planarians have a complex internal anatomy , which includes muscles , intestines , a system similar to kidneys , and a central nervous system with a brain . How is such regeneration accomplished ? Why are planarians able to regenerate their bodies so extensively , whereas humans cannot ? To what extent are the mechanisms of planarian regeneration common to other animals ? These questions have driven the study of planarian regeneration for more than a century , but it is only in recent years that the tools needed to address these questions at the molecular level have become available . Planarian regeneration proceeds over several days and involves multiple processes , including gene expression , cell division and cell death . Importantly , it has recently been shown that planarians activate different responses depending on whether an injury results in significant tissue loss—and therefore requires regeneration for repair—or if simple wound healing will be sufficient . The mechanisms behind these different responses to injury have , however , remained a mystery . Now , Gaviño et al . have identified a key mechanism in the initiation of regeneration following tissue loss . This is centered on the gene follistatin , which is expressed following wounding . When genetic techniques are used to disrupt the expression of follistatin , regeneration is completely blocked . However , the animal’s ability to routinely replace old cells via a stem-cell mediated mechanism is unaffected . This indicates that follistatin is specifically required for the replacement of cells lost through injury . Gaviño et al . further demonstrate that the protein encoded by follistatin likely initiates tissue regeneration upon substantial tissue loss through inhibition of proteins called Activins . Activin and Follistatin proteins are broadly conserved in evolution , and are also expressed in mammals , raising the possibility that similar molecular circuits may govern regenerative responses in many species .
Before a cell divides , it must first copy all of its genetic material . Any mistakes that are made during this process are called mutations . Mutations can give rise to new traits but are mostly harmful to the cells , or cause cancer; therefore , cells have evolved tools that can efficiently spot these mistakes and repair them . One of the main tools is called mismatch repair ( MMR ) . Defects in the cell's mismatch repair tools can wreak havoc as this allows many mutations to accumulate . Zhao et al . looked at the genomes of tumors where mismatch repair was not working properly to see what makes these ‘MMR-deficient tumors’ different from other tumors . This revealed that MMR-deficient tumors have similar patterns of mutations to those seen in egg and sperm cells . This was unexpected and suggests that mutations that are not corrected by mismatch repair are an important source of the genetic differences found between different humans , and between humans and their ancestors . Identifying cancerous tumors that are MMR-deficient is vital , as these tumors tend not to respond to commonly used cancer treatments . However , current clinical methods to identify MMR-deficient tumors often fail or produce results that are difficult to interpret . MMR-deficient tumors commonly contain mutations called indels , where short fragments of DNA are inserted or deleted into longer DNA sequences . Zhao et al . have found 59 indels that can be used to detect MMR-deficient tumors , where each indel had been identified in several tumors taken from different tissues . This new approach allowed MMR-deficiency to be identified in several types of tumor , including colon and ovarian cancers , with greater sensitivity and accuracy than the existing methods . Zhao et al . also found that the indels in MMR-deficient tumors reduce the ability of the tumors to repair a type of DNA damage called double-strand breaks . In these , both strands of DNA that make up the double helix are broken and the DNA chain is severed . As this kind of damage is very harmful to a cell , making more double-strand breaks could therefore form part of a more effective treatment against MMR-deficient tumors; further research is needed to investigate this possibility .
The cell relies on direct interactions among proteins and compartments called organelles to stay alive . Manipulating these interactions allows researchers to control a wide variety of cell behaviors . A system called ‘Magnets’ uses light to trigger interactions between proteins . Magnets uses a segment of a protein called Vivid from a common bread mold that responds to light . When light shines on two of these segments , it causes them to bind together , in a process known as dimerization . In the Magnets system , Vivid segments are attached to specific proteins or organelles . By using light , researchers can force their target molecules to come together and trigger signals that can change cell behavior . However , the Magnets system has limitations: its stability and low efficiency mean that the cells need to be kept at low temperatures and that several copies of Vivid are needed . These conditions can interfere with the activity of the target proteins . To expand the technique , Benedetti et al . added mutations to make the Vivid protein more similar to proteins found in fungi that thrive at temperatures around 50°C . These changes meant that the enhanced system could work at body temperature in mammals . Further mutations at the interface between the two Vivid segments improved the efficiency of dimerization . This enhanced version was put to the test in different applications , including delivering proteins to different organelles and bringing organelles together . The enhanced Magnets system should enable researchers to control a greater variety of signaling events in the cell . In addition , the methodology established for improving the efficiency of the Magnets system could be useful to researchers working on other proteins .
Information stored in DNA is used to make proteins in a two-step process . First , the DNA is copied to make molecules of messenger ribonucleic acid ( or messenger RNA for short ) . Next , machines called ribosomes use the messenger RNAs as templates to assemble chains of amino acids – the building blocks of proteins – in a process called translation . Another type of RNA molecule called transfer RNA carries each amino acid to the ribosomes . If a specific transfer RNA is not available for translation at the right time , the ribosome might stall as it moves along the messenger RNA . At this point , the ribosome needs to be restarted or it will fall off the mRNA without finishing the protein . In 2014 , a group of researchers reported that certain types of brain cells are very sensitive to ribosome stalling , and tend to die if translation does not continue . A protein called GTPBP2 was shown to play an important role in restarting stalled ribosomes in these cells . Here , Ishimura , Nagy et al . – including some of the researchers from the earlier work – investigated the molecular pathways that ribosome stalling triggers in brain cells using mutant mice that lacked the GTPBP2 protein . The experiments show that ribosome stalling activates an enzyme known as GCN2 , which was already known to sense other types of malfunctions in cellular processes . Ishimura , Nagy et al . also show that GCN2 triggers stress responses in the cells by activating a communication system called the ATF4 pathway . This pathway protects the cells from damage , and its absence results in more rapid cell deterioration and death . The next challenges are to understand the exact mechanism by which GCN2 senses stalled ribosomes , and to find out how ribosome stalling causes the death of brain cells .
People from different countries grow to different heights . This may be partly due to genetics , but most differences in height between countries have other causes . For example , children and adolescents who are malnourished , or who suffer from serious diseases , will generally be shorter as adults . This is important because taller people generally live longer , are less likely to suffer from heart disease and stroke , and taller women and their children are less likely to have complications during and after birth . Taller people may also earn more and be more successful at school . However , they are also more likely to develop some cancers . The NCD Risk Factor Collaboration set out to find out how tall people are , on average , in every country in the world at the moment , and how this has changed over the past 100 years . The analysis revealed large differences in height between countries . The tallest men were born in the last part of the 20th century in the Netherlands , and were nearly 183 cm tall on average . The shortest women were born in 1896 in Guatemala , and were on average 140 cm tall . The difference between the shortest and tallest countries is about 20 cm for both men and women . This means there are large differences between countries in terms of nutrition and the risk of developing some diseases . The way in which height has changed over the past 100 years also varies from country to country . Iranian men born in 1996 were around 17 cm taller than those born in 1896 , and South Korean women were 20 cm taller . In other parts of the world , particularly in South Asia and parts of Africa , people are only slightly taller than 100 years ago , and in some countries people are shorter than they were 50 years ago . There is a need to better understand why height has changed in different countries by different amounts , and use this information to improve nutrition and health across the world . It would also be valuable to understand how much becoming taller has been responsible for improved health and longevity throughout the world .
Opioids such as morphine or fentanyl are powerful substances used to relieve pain in medical settings . However , taken in too high a dose they can depress breathing – in other words , they can lead to slow , shallow breaths that cannot sustain life . In the United States , where the misuse of these drugs has been soaring in the past decades , about 130 people die each day from opioid overdose . Pinpointing the exact brain areas and neurons that opioids act on to depress breathing could help to create safer painkillers that do not have this deadly effect . While previous studies have proposed several brain regions that could be involved , they have not been able to confirm these results , or determine which area plays the biggest role . Opioids influence the brain of animals ( including humans ) by attaching to proteins known as opioid receptors that are present at the surface of neurons . Here , Bachmutsky et al . genetically engineered mice that lack these receptors in specific brain regions that control breathing . The animals were then exposed to opioids , and their breathing was closely monitored . The experiments showed that two small brain areas were responsible for breathing becoming depressed under the influence of opioids . The region with the most critical impact also happens to be where the breathing rhythms originate . There , a small group of 50 to 140 neurons were used by opioids to depress breathing . Crucially , these cells were not necessary for the drugs’ ability to relieve pain . Overall , the work by Bachmutsky et al . highlights a group of neurons whose role in creating breathing rhythms deserves further attention . It also opens the possibility that targeting these neurons would help to create safer painkillers .
Liver diseases related to the human hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) kill about 1 million people every year , and more than 350 million people around the world are infected with the virus . Some 15 million of these people are also infected with the hepatitis D virus ( HDV ) , which is a satellite virus of HBV , and this places them at an even higher risk of liver diseases , including cancer . The viruses are known to enter liver cells by binding to receptors on their surface before being engulfed . Both HBV and HDV have outer coats that consist of three kinds of envelope proteins , and a region called the pre-S1 domain in one of them is known to have a central role in the interaction between the viruses and the receptors and , therefore , in infecting the cells . However , the identity of the HBV receptor has remained a mystery . Now Yan et al . have identified this receptor to be sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide . This protein , known as NTCP for short , is normally involved in the circulation of bile acids in the body . In addition to humans , only two species are known to be susceptible to infection by human HBV and HDV—chimpanzees and a small mammal known as the treeshrew . Yan et al . started by isolating primary liver cells from treeshrews , and then used a combination of advanced purification and mass spectrometry analysis to show that the NTCP on the surface of the cells interacts with the pre-S1 domain in HBV . The authors then performed a series of gene knockdown experiments on liver cells of both human and treeshrew origin: when the gene that codes for NTCP was silenced , HBV infection was greatly reduced . Moreover , they were able to transfect HepG2 cells—which are widely used in research into liver disease , but are not susceptible to HBV and HDV infection—with NTCP from humans and treeshrews to make them susceptible . Similarly , although monkeys are not susceptible to HBV , replacing just five amino acids in monkey NTCP with their human counterparts was enough to make the monkey NTCP a functional receptor for the viruses . In the past , basic research into HBV and the development of antiviral therapeutics have both been hindered by the lack of suitable in vitro infection systems and animal models . Now , the work of Yan et al . means that it will be possible to use NTCP-complemented HepG2 cells for challenges as diverse as fundamental studies of basic viral entry/replication mechanisms and large-scale drug screening . It is also possible that HBV and HDV infection might interfere with some of the important physiological functions carried out by NTCP , so the latest work could also be of interest to medical scientists working on other diseases related to these infections .
A dirty cut , a nasty burn , a severe COVID infection; there are many ways for someone to develop sepsis . This life-threatening condition emerges when the immune system overreacts to a threat and ends up damaging the body . Even when patients survive , they are often left with a partially impaired immune system that cannot adequately protect against microbes and cancer; this is known as immunoparalysis . Memory CD8 T cells , a type of immune cell that is compromised by sepsis , are a long-lived population of cells that ‘remember’ previous infection or vaccination , and then react faster to prevent the same illness if the person ever encounters the same threat again . Yet it is unclear how exactly sepsis harms the function and representation of memory CD8 T cells , and the immune system in general . Jensen et al . investigated this question , first by showing that sepsis leads to a profound loss of memory CD8 T cells , but that surviving memory CD8 T cells multiply quickly – especially a subpopulation known as central memory CD8 T cells – to re-establish the memory CD8 T cell population . Since the central memory CD8 T cells proliferate better than the other memory T cells this alters the overall composition of the pool of memory CD8 T cells , with central memory cells becoming overrepresented . Further experiments revealed that this biasing toward central memory T cells , due to sepsis , created long-term changes in the distribution of memory CD8 T cells throughout the body . The way the genetic information of these cells was packaged had also been altered , as well as which genes were switched on or off . Overall , these changes reduced the ability of memory CD8 T cells to control infections . Together , these findings help to understand how immunoparalysis can emerge after sepsis , and what could be done to correct it . These findings could also be applied to other conditions – such as COVID-19 – which may cause similar long-term changes to the immune system .
Transposable elements are often referred to as ‘jumping genes’ because they can move between different locations within a genome . These sequences of DNA are found in many organisms and can make up a significant proportion of the genetic material: almost 50% of the DNA in the case of the human genome . Transposable elements are grouped by how they move to new locations in a genome . Some move by a cut-and-paste mechanism—whereby the transposable element DNA is removed from one location and inserted back at a new genomic location . Others , termed retrotransposons , move by a copy-and-paste mechanism: the DNA sequence is transcribed into an RNA intermediate , and then copied back into DNA before being inserted into a new location . Retrotransposons can accumulate to great numbers in genomes: and one retrotransposon , called LINE-1 , is present at an estimated 500 , 000 copies in the human genome . Although most copies of LINE-1 are inactive , the average human genome contains about 80–100 that are predicted to be able to ‘jump’ to new locations . Given that these retrotransposons could insert into , and disrupt , vital genes , it follows that our cells would have evolved ways to limit their movement . An enzyme named APOBEC3A is known to limit the movement of LINE-1 retrotransposons in cells . APOBEC3A can alter the letters , or bases , that make up the genetic code . This enzyme acts on single-strand DNA to change ‘C’ bases to ‘U’ bases , which could explain how APOBEC3A combats LINE-1 . However , no evidence for such mutation of LINE-1 sequences by APOBEC3A had been found to date . Now , Richardson et al . recreate the copying of LINE-1 RNA back into DNA in a test tube—and reveal that APOBEC3A can mutate single-strand LINE-1 DNA . Critically , as long as the RNA intermediate and DNA copy remain together , the LINE-1 DNA is protected . However , when LINE-1 inserts into a new location the temporarily exposed single strand of LINE-1 DNA becomes susceptible to mutation by APOBEC3A . Human cells can detect and destroy ‘U’ bases in DNA—and only by inhibiting this ability were Richardson et al . able to observe APOBEC3A mutations in new LINE-1 copies within the genomes of living cells . Richardson et al . speculate that the activity of APOBEC3 enzymes must strike a balance between limiting the spread of retrotransposons and minimizing the mutation of the cell's own DNA . Future work could address important questions , such as: do APOBEC enzymes affect the ‘jumping’ of LINE-1 retrotransposons in human reproductive cells and the early embryo , where new LINE-1 insertions could be passed on to subsequent generations ? Also , does a loss of APOBEC3 activity lead to new LINE-1 insertions in cancerous cells ? And does this effect how tumors form and/or progress ? Since APOBEC3 enzymes can cause mutations in cancers , they have been proposed as new targets for anti-cancer drugs—therefore , it is crucial to uncover any harmful effects of inhibiting APOBEC3 enzymes that might limit the effectiveness of such treatments .
Throughout our waking hours , we experience an ever-changing stream of input from our senses . The brain responds to this varying input by adjusting its own activity levels and even its own structure . It does this by changing the strength of the connections between neurons , or the properties of the neurons themselves . Known as plasticity , this process of continuous change enables the brain to develop , learn and to recover from injury . The visual systems of mammals are particularly well suited to studying how sensory experience alters the brain . Studies in animals show that lack of sensory input to one or both eyes during a critical period in development causes long-lasting changes in the brain’s visual circuits . Similarly , children with the condition amblyopia or ‘lazy eye’ – in which one eye has impaired vision and the brain ignores input from that eye – can end up with permanent deficits in their vision if the condition is not treated during childhood . Changes in sensory input are thought to trigger plasticity in the brain by altering the activity of specific genes . But exactly how this process works is unclear . Moore , Richards et al . now show that a gene called Rem2 has an important role in regulating visual plasticity . In the key experiments , young mice had their vision in one eye blocked for a few days . Analysis of their brains showed that mice that had been genetically modified to lack the Rem2 gene responded differently to this change in their environment ( i . e . the loss of input to one eye ) than their normal counterparts . Further experiments suggest that Rem2 regulates the excitability of individual neurons: that is , how much the neurons respond to any given input . In the absence of Rem2 , neurons in visual areas of the brain become hyperactive . This prevents them from adjusting their activity levels in response to changes in sensory input , which in turn leads to impaired plasticity . Being able to harness the brain’s visual plasticity mechanisms on demand , for example by regulating Rem2 activity , could benefit individuals with disorders such as amblyopia . Rem2 is also active in many other parts of the brain besides those that support vision . This suggests that manipulating this gene could affect numerous forms of plasticity . However , various barriers must be overcome before we could use this approach to treat brain disorders . These include obtaining a more in depth understanding of the role of the Rem2 gene in the human brain .
How biological systems interact with magnetic fields is of great interest both from a basic science perspective and for technological applications . Certain animal species can sense the Earth’s magnetic field for the purposes of navigation . How that compass sense works is perhaps the last true mystery of sensory biology . If we knew how the magnetic field affects the activity of nerve cells , we could harness that mechanism to create new biomedical tools . One technological goal is to genetically engineer specific cells in the brain or elsewhere so their activity can be controlled using an external magnet . This dream has been called “magnetogenetics” . In recent months a string of reports claimed to have solved both the scientific and the technological challenges of magnetogenetics . They all involved the discovery or the engineering of protein molecules that are sensitive to magnetic fields . Markus Meister has now checked whether those claims were consistent with well-established physical laws . For each case , Meister calculated how strongly the protein in question would link magnetic fields to cellular activity . The results show that the predicted effects are too weak to account for the reported measurements by huge margins: between five and ten orders of magnitude . It therefore appears that none of these reports have hit on a solution to magnetogenetics . All of the proposed proteins use iron atoms to couple to the magnetic field , but Meister concludes that these proteins contain far too few iron atoms . How safe is that conclusion ? There has been enormous technological interest in making tiny magnets; for example , to design the ever-denser data storage drives inside computers . Hence the magnetism of small clusters of atoms is exceedingly well understood . If any of the biological reports of magnetogenetics turned out correct , they would force a revolutionary rethinking of basic physics . With the recognition that magnetogenetics remains unsolved , and that different approaches are needed , Meister hopes that other investigators will feel motivated to continue innovating in this area .
Stem cells provide tissues in the body with a continuing source of new cells , both when the tissues are first developing and when they are growing or repairing in adulthood . A stem cell can divide to create either another stem cell , or a cell that will mature into one of many different cell types . Neuroblasts are a type of brain stem cell and can divide to create two new cells: another neuroblast that will continue to replicate itself and a cell called a ganglion mother cell that will go on to produce two mature cells for the nervous system . Moreover , when a neuroblast divides , it splits unequally , so that certain molecules end up predominantly in the ganglion mother cell—including a protein called Prospero . Once partitioned into the ganglion mother cell , the Prospero protein enters the nucleus , where it switches off ‘stem cell genes’ and switches on ‘neuron genes’ so the ganglion mother cell can form the mature neurons of the brain . Thus , neuroblasts must keep Prospero out of the nucleus to maintain stem cell properties , whereas ganglion mother cells must move Prospero into the nucleus to form neurons . Now , Lai and Doe discover a new way that the Prospero protein is used to control stem cell biology . Neuroblasts , like all stem cells , can enter periods where they go dormant or quiescent—that is , they temporarily stop generating ganglion mother cells . By analyzing which proteins are present in neuroblasts during this transition to quiescence , Lai and Doe discovered that the Prospero protein was briefly detected , at low levels , in the nucleus of the neuroblast just before it became dormant . To see whether this ‘low-level pulse’ of nuclear Prospero is linked to the cell entering a dormant state , Lai and Doe investigated two types of mutant fly in which neuroblasts become dormant either earlier or later than in normal flies . A low-level pulse of nuclear Prospero still precisely matched the start of the dormant state in both mutants . When the Prospero protein was removed altogether , the neuroblasts failed to become dormant , and instead continued dividing . Lai and Doe propose that different levels of Prospero distinguish three different fates for neuroblasts . Neuroblasts self-replicate when Prospero is kept out of the nucleus , become dormant when exposed to low level nuclear Prospero , and produce the mature cells of the brain when nuclear Prospero levels are high . Exactly how the intermediate levels of nuclear Prospero trigger the dormant state remains a question for future work , as is the question of whether the related mammalian protein , called Prox1 , has a similar function . Understanding how stem cells switch between cell division and quiescence is important for developing effective stem cell-based therapies . It could also help us understand cancer , as cancer cells go through similar periods of inactivity , during which they do not respond to many anti-tumor drugs .
Viruses need to enter their host’s cells in order to replicate their genetic material and produce more copies of the virus . A protein shell called a capsid protects the virus during this journey . But the structure of the capsid presents a mystery . How can this protein shell be strong enough to remain intact as it enters a host cell , and yet quickly open up to release the viral genome after replication ? Unlike the capsids of many other viruses , those of HIV have irregular structures that rapidly fall apart once removed from the virus . This has thwarted attempts to study intact HIV capsids in order to understand how they work . However , we do know that HIV hijacks a range of molecules produced by the invaded host cell . Dissecting their effects on the capsid is key to understanding how the capsid disassembles . Márquez et al . have now developed a method that can visualize individual HIV capsids – and how they disassemble – in real time using single-molecule microscopy . This revealed that capsids differ widely in their stability . The shell remains closed for a variable period of time and then collapses catastrophically as soon as it loses its first subunit . Using the new technique , Márquez et al . also found that a small molecule drug called PF74 causes the capsid to crack open rapidly , but the remaining shell is then stabilized against further disassembly . These observations reconcile seemingly contradictory observations made by different research groups about how this drug affects the stability of the capsid . The method developed by Márquez et al . enables researchers to measure how molecules produced by host cells interact with the viral capsid , a structure that is fundamental for the virus to establish an infection . It could also be used to test the effects of antiviral drugs that have been designed to target the capsid . The new technique has already been instrumental in related research by Mallery et al . , which identifies a molecule found in host cells that stabilizes the capsid of HIV .
As cells in our body grow and divide , their DNA can experience changes or damage . Most of these ‘mutations’ are harmless , or quickly fixed by the body . Yet , sometimes a mutation can trigger a chain of genetic events that drives the cells to multiply uncontrollably , which leads to tumors . Identifying these ‘driver mutations’ is complex , but key to understanding how cancers start and can be fought . Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer diagnosed in women worldwide . Large studies have focused on sequencing the DNA of cancerous breast cells to try to identify the mutations that started the cancer . Results show that , in these cells , a biological mechanism called the JNK signaling pathway is often inactivated because mutations affect the molecules that take part in this process . Like a chain reaction , the proteins of the JNK pathway act on each other until the last one , called JNK , gets switched on . This protein then goes on to participate in a number of cellular processes such as DNA repair . Is it possible that mutations in this pathway actually drive cancer , and if so , how ? Girnius et al . addressed these questions by inactivating the JNK pathway in the breast cells of mice . Over the next year and a half , the JNK-deficient animals were more likely to get breast cancer than normal mice . Further experiments showed that , in breast cells , the JNK protein prevented tumors from appearing . However , once the tumors were present , it was less effective at stopping them from growing . The DNA of the breast cancer cells with no JNK protein also contained more genetic changes and mistakes . This suggests that the JNK signaling pathway helps to keep the genetic information ‘healthy’ . This may be because , normally , the JNK protein activates processes that fix DNA mutations . Taken together , the results presented by Girnius et al . show that genetic changes which inactivate the JNK pathway can drive the development of breast cancer . Certain anti-cancer drugs kill cancerous cells by damaging their DNA . Breast tumor cells with inactive JNK pathways are less able to repair their genetic information , and so these drugs could potentially work well on them . Future experiments will be needed to test this hypothesis .
Animal cells produce many small proteins known as peptides that help cells to communicate with each other . To become active , many of these peptides need to be chemically modified . PAM is the only enzyme that carries out a type of peptide modification called amidation and it is essential for animals to grow and survive . PAM was originally thought to have evolved in the nervous system of animals , but recent studies have found that it is also present in green algae and in hair-like projections known as cilia , which are found on the surface of most animal cells . There are two types of cilia: motile cilia beat rhythmically and are responsible for moving cells and fluids , while non-motile cilia sense the external environment and serve as signaling hubs . These observations suggest that PAM may have other roles in cells in addition to activating peptides . Kumar et al . now set out to investigate the role of PAM in green algae , flatworms and mice . The results show that PAM is important for the formation of both motile and non-motile cilia . Reducing the levels of PAM in the algae and flatworms resulted in short stubs forming on the surface of cells instead of motile cilia . This reduced the ability of flatworms to glide around their environment . Furthermore , the cells of mutant mice lacking PAM produced non-motile cilia that were much shorter than those produced by normal mouse cells . Further experiments suggest that PAM may be involved in the transport of certain proteins to the sites where new cilia will form . The findings of Kumar et al . reveal a link between the PAM enzyme , amidation and the assembly of cilia . The next step will be to identify the molecules that are modified by PAM and work out exactly how amidated products might regulate the formation of cilia .
A mammal’s sense of hearing and balance are helped by so-called hair cells within the inner ear . These cells are named after their long , hair-like protrusions called stereocilia , and mutations in the genes involved in stereocilia development and maintenance can lead to hearing loss in humans . Damage to the stereocilia caused by excessive exposure to loud noises can also have the same effect . Stereocilia are full of filaments made of a protein called actin . Other proteins called class III myosins and Espin are also both required for normal development of stereocilia . Mutations in the genes that encode these proteins can cause hereditary deafness in humans . However , it remains unclear exactly how these two proteins ( myosins and Espin ) interact with each other in stereocilia . Using biochemical and structural studies , Liu , Li et al . have now discovered that the so-called ‘tail’ part of the myosins contains a pair of repeated sequences that can each interact with an Espin protein called Espin1 . This interaction allows each myosin to cross-link two Espin1 proteins . Espins assemble actin filaments into bundles , and further experiments showed that this cross-linking interaction between myosins and Espins helped this process , which is linked to stereocilia development and maintenance . Mammals actually have two related copies of class III myosins that play overlapping but slightly different roles . The next challenge will be to try to understand the differences between these related proteins , as well as to try to uncover the roles of other forms of Espin in stereocilia .
Communication in our body runs on electricity . Between the exterior and interior of every living cell , there is a difference in electrical charge , or voltage . Rapid changes in this so-called membrane potential activate vital biological processes , ranging from muscle contraction to communication between nerve cells . Ion channels are cellular structures that maintain membrane potential and help ‘excitable’ cells like nerve and muscle cells produce electrical impulses . They are specialized proteins that form highly specific conduction pores in the cell surface . When open , these channels let charged particles ( such as calcium ions ) through , rapidly altering the electrical potential between the inside and outside the cell . To ensure proper control over this process , most ion channels open in response to specific stimuli , which is known as ‘gating’ . For example , voltage-gated calcium channels contain charge-sensing domains that change shape and allow the channel to open once the membrane potential reaches a certain threshold . These channels play important roles in many tissues and , when mutated , can cause severe brain or muscle disease . Although the basic principle of voltage gating is well-known , the properties of individual voltage-gated calcium channels still vary . Different family members open at different voltage levels and at different speeds . Such fine-tuning is thought to be key to their diverse roles in various parts of the body , but the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood . Here , Fernández-Quintero , El Ghaleb et al . set out to determine how this variation is achieved . The first step was to create a dynamic computer simulation showing the detailed structure of a mammalian voltage-gated calcium channel , called CaV1 . 1 . The simulation was then used to predict the movements of the voltage sensing regions while the channel opened . The computer modelling experiments showed that although the voltage sensors looked superficially similar , they acted differently . The first of the four voltage sensors of the studied calcium channel controlled opening speed . This was driven by shifts in its configuration that caused oppositely charged parts of the protein to sequentially form and break molecular bonds; a process that takes time . In contrast , the fourth sensor , which set the voltage threshold at which the channel opened , did not form these sequential bonds and accordingly reacted fast . Experimental tests in muscle cells that had been engineered to produce channels with mutations in the sensors , confirmed these results . These findings shed new light on the molecular mechanisms that shape the activity of voltage-gated calcium channels . This knowledge will help us understand better how ion channels work , both in healthy tissue and in human disease .
When part of the brain becomes damaged as a result of injury or disease – for example , a stroke – other brain regions can sometimes take over from the damaged part . This is one example of a phenomenon called brain plasticity . The strengthening and weakening of connections between neurons that underlies learning and memory is another , less extreme , example of plasticity . While the brain is most plastic during childhood , it remains malleable to some degree throughout life . The brain’s visual system in particular shows robust and predictable plasticity , and so is often used by neuroscientists to study mechanisms behind plasticity . In young rodents , taping one eye shut for a few days causes inputs from that eye to visual areas of the brain to become weaker . Inputs from the open eye meanwhile become stronger , leading to improved vision in the open eye . Such plasticity also occurs in adult rodents , but the eye must be closed for longer to produce an effect . In young animals , this plasticity depends , in part , on enzymes called matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) . These help to regulate a network of proteins called the extracellular matrix , which provides structural support for cells . Pielecka-Fortuna et al . now provide the first evidence that MMP enzymes also contribute to visual plasticity in adult animals . Blocking the activity of MMPs prevented reorganisation of visual areas of the brains of adult mice in response to eye closure , and prevented vision improvements in the open eye . However , blocking MMP in adult mice whose brains had been damaged by a stroke had the opposite effect . Whereas stroke normally prevents visual system plasticity in response to eye closure , treatment with a single dose of MMP blocker rescued this plasticity . Strikingly , these benefits were lost if the mice were given two doses of MMP blocker , rather than one . These experiments show that MMP levels must be within a narrow range to support plasticity . In the healthy adult brain , blocking MMPs impairs plasticity . After stroke , MMP levels are increased and reducing them rescues plasticity . The next challenge is to identify the specific MMP enzymes responsible , and to determine whether these changes can be exploited to improve recovery from stroke .
The nearly 100 billion neurons in our brain create a complex and intricate network that can relay information in a fraction of a second . Two neurons can communicate with each other by forming a synapse , a specialised structure where the two cells come into close contact . There , the signalling neuron releases chemicals that the receiving cell captures through dedicated receptors embedded in its membrane . For example , the AMPA receptor is a complex assemblage of different subunits that quickly transmits information by opening and closing to let ions move into the receiving cell . These receptors are some of the fastest to react to the released chemicals , allowing information to be encoded swiftly . In fact , it is increasingly clear that epilepsy and deficits in mental processes can be associated with AMPA receptors having a faulty activity . Yet , it is still unknown how exactly these proteins work . In particular , previous studies have shown that an AMPA receptor can go through dramatic changes in its structure , with the different subunits being able to spread apart widely . However , these experiments had to be conducted when the proteins were isolated from membranes and held in a cocktail of activating or deactivating molecules for hours . It is still unclear whether the results hold when AMPA receptors sit at the membrane while assembled with their partner proteins , like they normally do in the brain . Baranovic and Plested went on to investigate this question by using ‘molecular rulers’ . These tiny molecules have different lengths , and they act as yardsticks: their sticky ends can attach to specific areas in the protein , helping to measure how these regions move relative to each other when the receptors are on or off . A method called patch clamp electrophysiology was used to determine how much the normal activity of the AMPA receptors was hindered by being bound by the molecular rulers . The results showed that AMPA receptors can undergo large structural changes but these movements require time and are much reduced by partner proteins . In the brain , AMPA receptors in synapses probably lack the freedom and opportunity to move so dramatically when neurons are communicating with each other . Ultimately , knowing how these receptors work and move may help grasp the changes in their activity that cause connections between neurons to become defective .
Parasitic worms known as helminths represent an important health problem in large parts of Africa , South America and Asia . Once their larvae enter the body , they head to the gut where they mature into adults and start laying eggs . In areas with poor sanitation , these may then get passed on to other individuals . To defend the body , the immune system sends large numbers of immune cells to the gut , but it usually struggles to eliminate the parasites . Without deworming medication , the infection can last for many years . Scientists study helminth infections in the laboratory by using worms that naturally infect mice . Understanding exactly how the immune system responds to the infection is essential to grasp why it fails to clear the worms . However , it is difficult to extract immune cells from an infected gut , as the infection creates strong local responses – such as an intense ‘slime’ production to try to flush out the worms . The standard procedure to obtain immune cells from the gut consists of three steps: collecting a gut segment and washing it , stripping away the surface layers with chemicals , and finally using enzymes to digest the tissues , which are then filtered to obtain individual cells . However , this protocol is not able to extract cells during infection . Ferrer-Font et al . therefore methodically refined every step of this method , and finally succeeded in obtaining millions of immune cells from infected guts . For the first time , these cells could then be studied and identified using a new technology called spectral flow cytometry . Over 40 immune cell types were followed throughout the course of infection , revealing that many ‘first responders’ immune cells were recruited to the gut early on , when the worms were still larvae . However , these cells disappeared once the worms developed into adults . These findings were confirmed by microscopy , which also showed that the first responder cells were found around the developing larvae , likely attacking them . When the adult worms developed , these cells were replaced by other immune cells , which also decreased the longer the worms were present in the gut . This new extraction process established by Ferrer-Font et al . can also be paired with other technologies that can , for example , reveal which genes are turned on in individual cells . This could help map out exactly how the body fights helminth infections , and how to improve this response . The method could also be useful to extract immune cells from the gut in other challenging scenarios , such food allergies or inflammatory bowel disorders .
Cells have to be able to reliably destroy or remove molecules from their interior that they no longer need . Structures called proteasomes play a central part in this complex process by cutting up and digesting proteins . Mammals have several different types of proteasomes , each made up of several protein ‘subunits’ . For example , when a cell experiences inflammation some proteasomes change some of their subunits and form an immuno-proteasome . These immuno-proteasomes tend to break down proteins more quickly than ‘standard’ proteasomes , but it was not clear how they are able to do so . Liepe et al . have now combined experiments and mathematical modelling to construct a detailed model of proteasome activity . The model shows that protein transport into and out of the proteasome chamber are the steps that limit how quickly the proteasomes can break down proteins . Furthermore , these transport processes are also to a large extent responsible for the different rates at which standard and immuno-proteasomes process proteins . Liepe et al . were also able to confirm the existence of regulatory sites within the proteasome , and describe how these are arranged . Problems that alter the rate at which proteasomes break down proteins have been linked to tumors and neurological and autoimmune diseases . Liepe et al . 's model opens up the ability to study how the proteasome's activity is affected by drugs and therefore makes it easier to investigate ways of interfering with this activity for therapeutic purposes .
Neurons transmit information around the body in the form of electrical signals , but these signals cannot cross the gaps between neurons . To send a message to its neighbor , a neuron releases a molecule known as a neurotransmitter into the gap between the cells . The neurotransmitter binds to proteins on the recipient neuron and triggers new electrical signals inside that cell . When the message has been received , the neurotransmitter molecules are returned to the first neuron so that they can be reused . This recycling is particularly important in the visual system , where neurons communicate via rapid-fire signaling . In fruit flies , for example , light-sensitive neurons in the eye known as photoreceptors release a neurotransmitter called histamine when they detect light . Supporting cells called laminar glia take up any leftover histamine and combine it with another molecule known as β-alanine to form a larger molecule . The photoreceptors absorb this larger molecule and break it back down into histamine and β-alanine . However , it is not clear how the β-alanine returns to the glia to allow this cycle to continue . Many molecules rely on so-called “transporter” proteins to help them move into or out of cells . To identify transporters that might help to move β-alanine , Han , Xiong et al . prepared a list of fruit fly genes that encode transporter proteins found inside the insect’s head . Testing the resulting proteins in a cultured cell system revealed that one of them was able to transport β-alanine . This protein , named BalaT , is found in another type of support cell called retinal pigment cells . Mutant flies that cannot produce BalaT are blind because their photoreceptors have problems in transmitting information to other neurons . Han , Xiong et al . propose that BalaT transports β-alanine from photoreceptors to retinal pigment cells , which then pass β-alanine on to the laminar glia . Follow-up studies are required to find out exactly how the laminar glia take up histamine .
While most animals experience a physiological decline as they age , the underlying cause of this decline is not fully understood . According to the free radical theory of aging , chemicals known as reactive oxygen species build up in the body and then cause damage to various components within cells , including DNA and proteins . These species , which include hydrogen peroxide and peroxynitrite , can cause substantial oxidative damage . However , while there is definitely a relationship between aging and reactive oxygen species , it remains possible that oxidative damage is a byproduct of aging rather than the cause of it . In the past researchers have measured the carbonylation of proteins ( that is , the oxidation of certain amino acids in proteins ) as a proxy for damage caused by reactive oxygen species , but this method has a number of shortcomings . More recently , it has become possible to quantify the oxidation state of cysteine , an amino acid that contains sulfur , in proteins using a technique based on mass spectrometry . Building on previous work in which they used this technique to measure the oxidation state of 300 proteins in vivo in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , Brandes et al . have now determined how the oxidation state of these proteins changes over the lifespan of S . cerevisiae , which is a popular model system for analyzing aging in cells that are in a high metabolic state but are no longer dividing . This made it possible to identify protein targets that might—as a result of changes in their oxidation state caused by reactive oxygen species—contribute to the physiological alterations observed in aging organisms . It was also possible to establish a clear connection between the onset and extent of oxidative stress and lifespan . Brandes et al . discovered that several days before the yeast cells died , they underwent a sudden and global ‘redox collapse’ in which ∼80% of the 300 proteins being studied experienced an increase in their oxidation state ( i . e . , they lost electrons ) . This event was preceded by a large drop in the level of NADPH , a coenzyme that , by being a source of electrons , helps to counterbalance the removal of electrons by reactive oxygen species within cells . The drop in the concentration of NADPH occurred very early in the life cycle of the yeast , and set in motion a series of events that down-regulated most cellular processes . Intriguingly , these findings are consistent with the effect of caloric restriction , a condition that is known to extend the lifespan of animals . Caloric restriction increases cellular NADPH and delays the down-regulation of cellular processes . Brandes et al . propose that the underlying cause of aging is not the accumulation of reactive oxygen species: rather , these results suggest that aging is caused by a sudden and substantial decrease in available NADPH , which means that cells cannot maintain a stable oxidation state . If borne out by further work , these findings could have a significant impact on how we think about the aging process , and could require researchers to rethink how they study aging .
Amino acids are ‘chiral’ molecules that come in two different forms , called D and L , which are mirror images of each other , similar to how our left and right hands are mirror images of each other . However , only one of these forms is used to make proteins: the more abundant L-amino acids are linked together to make proteins , whereas the scarcer D-amino acids are not . This ‘homochirality’ is common to all life on Earth . The molecular machinery inside cells that manufactures proteins involves many enzymes that carry out different tasks . Among these is an enzyme called DTD ( short for D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase ) , which prevents D-amino acids being incorporated into proteins . To do this , DTD must be able to recognise and remove the D forms of many different amino acids before they are taken to the growing protein by transfer RNA molecules . However , the details of this process are not fully understood . To investigate this mechanism , Ahmad et al . made crystals of the DTD enzyme in complex with a molecule that mimics a D-amino acid attached to a transfer RNA molecule . By studying this structure at a high resolution , Ahmad et al . were able to identify how the active site of DTD can specifically accommodate the ‘chiral centre’ of a complex made of a D-amino acid and a transfer RNA molecule . DTD is able to recognize D-amino acids because of a critical dipeptide that is inserted from one subunit of the DTD into the active site of another subunit of the enzyme . The effect of this dipeptide is to generate a binding pocket that is a perfect fit for the chiral centre of a complex that contains a D-amino acid and a transfer RNA molecule . Moreover , this pocket specifically excludes complexes that contain an L-amino acid . The crucial parts of DTD that form the binding pocket are highly conserved—that is , they are the same in a wide variety of organisms , from bacteria to mammals . This conservation suggests that DTD is crucial for ensuring homochirality throughout all forms of life . Intriguingly , DTD is particularly highly expressed in neurons which are abundant in D-amino acids: this indicates that the DTD enzyme has an important physiological role , which will certainly be the focus of future work .
A protein pore called the CFTR channel allows chloride ions to move through the membrane of the cells that line the airways and some other parts of the human body . Mutations in the genes that encode CFTR may reduce the number of pores at the cell surface or stop them from working properly . When this happens , these cells cannot transport enough chloride , which causes the disease cystic fibrosis . CFTR contains two regions that lie inside the cell known as nucleotide binding domains ( NBDs ) . These domains bind to the chemical energy molecule ATP , and when ATP does bind , two NBDs associate to form a dimer and the pore in CFTR opens . The CFTR channel can occasionally open in a spontaneous way that does not require ATP . However , it was not clear whether NBDs also formed dimers when CFTR opened in this way . This is because spontaneous opening could reflect NBDs occasionally forming a dimer without ATP binding or it could occur when the pore occasionally opens without the NBDs forming a dimer . To explore whether opening of the pore always requires NBD dimerization , Mihályi et al . studied the behaviour of single human CFTR channels produced in frog eggs . Normal channels and mutant ones ( which show differences in spontaneous opening ) were used , and the change in the way NBDs interacted when the channels spontaneously opened or closed was investigated . Mihályi et al . found that the NBD dimer forms when the pore spontaneously opens , demonstrating that this step happens both with and without ATP . The result demonstrates that NBD dimer formation and pore movement are strictly coupled and that this is an inbuilt property of the CFTR protein . When ATP binds , this only changes how stable the open-pore and closed-pore structures of CFTR are but does not alter the fundamental architecture of the channel . These new findings will be of interest to researchers studying a large group of transport proteins related to CFTR called ABC proteins . Furthermore , a drug called ivacaftor stimulates spontaneous opening of CFTR , and has recently been approved for clinical use to treat people with mutations in CFTR . As such , the new findings will be also useful to help researchers understand how ivacaftor stimulates the CFTR pore to open .
The membrane that surrounds cells provides a selective barrier that allows some molecules through , but blocks the path of others . A cell’s membrane is made up of two layers of molecules with oily tails , and is therefore known as a bilayer . Many proteins are dotted within and on the inner and outer surfaces of the bilayer: some act as channels that control what goes in and out of the cell , while others protrude outside the cell so that they can sense changes in the environment . Membrane proteins can move and interact within the bilayer , and various models have emerged to try to explain this dynamic system . These models are based on the membrane having some fluidity but also having regions where there is more structure , and typically describe the proteins as ordered clusters floating in an otherwise disordered fluid membrane . However , many researchers now think some proteins that pass through both layers of the bilayer ( i . e . , transmembrane proteins ) make membranes more ordered , with a possibly gel-like state . However , it is not clear how transmembrane proteins can move and assemble together within such a relatively rigid membrane . To investigate this , Katira , Mandadapu , Vaikuntanathan et al . carried out computer simulations using a model of a simple bilayer membrane . This membrane can exist in an ordered state , where the oily tails are neatly aligned , or a disordered state , where they are irregularly packed . Virtual ‘heating’ of the membrane caused it to shift from an ordered to a disordered state . When a simple transmembrane protein favoring the disordered state was inserted into the ordered state of the modeled membrane , disordered regions formed locally around the protein and the protein was able to diffuse within the membrane . Modeling what would happen if two transmembrane proteins approached each other revealed that a consequence of the order–disorder transition is a strong attractive force that assembles the proteins together . Katira , Mandadapu , Vaikuntanathan et al . named this new phenomenon the 'orderphobic effect' . The forces arising from this effect were much greater than those currently believed to contribute to the assembly of membrane protein complexes , such as those generated by the elasticity of the membrane . This means that the orderphobic effect may be responsible for generating the protein clusters commonly seen in cell membranes . Future work should next explore the opposite effect , where proteins favoring the ordered state are inserted into the disordered state of a membrane . This is expected to cause clustering of such proteins and thus large ordered regions in an otherwise disordered membrane .
Neurons , the cells that make up the nervous system , transmit information using electrical signals known as action potentials or spikes . Studying the spiking patterns of neurons in the brain is essential to understand perception , memory , thought , and behaviour . One way to do that is by recording electrical activity with microelectrodes . Another way to study neuronal activity is by using molecules that change how they interact with light when calcium binds to them , since changes in calcium concentration can be indicative of neuronal spiking . That change can be observed with specialized microscopes know as two-photon fluorescence microscopes . Using calcium indicators , it is possible to simultaneously record hundreds or even thousands of neurons . However , calcium fluorescence and spikes do not translate one-to-one . In order to interpret fluorescence data , it is important to understand the relationship between the fluorescence signals and the spikes associated with individual neurons . The only way to directly measure this relationship is by using calcium imaging and electrical recording simultaneously to record activity from the same neuron . However , this is extremely challenging experimentally , so this type of data is rare . To shed some light on this , Huang , Ledochowitsch et al . used mice that had been genetically modified to produce a calcium indicator in neurons of the visual cortex and simultaneously obtained both fluorescence measurements and electrical recordings from these neurons . These experiments revealed that , while the majority of time periods containing multi-spike neural activity could be identified using calcium imaging microscopy , on average , less than 10% of isolated single spikes were detectable . This is an important caveat that researchers need to take into consideration when interpreting calcium imaging results . These findings are intended to serve as a guide for interpreting calcium imaging studies that look at neurons in the mammalian brain at the population level . In addition , the data provided will be useful as a reference for the development of activity sensors , and to benchmark and improve computational approaches for detecting and predicting spikes .
In dry caves of southeastern Brazil , live a group of insects named Neotrogla that are perhaps best known because the egg-producing females have penises while the sperm-producing males have vaginas . The sex roles of these Brazilian cave insects are also reversed: females compete over the males , who in turn are selective of their female partners . This sex role reversal likely evolved within Neotrogla because the males’ semen represents a rich and reliable source of energy within a nutrient-poor cave environment . When females are not using semen to fertilize their eggs , they consume it . Yet , while other animals show sex role reversal , Neotrogla species alone have reversed sexual organs . Neotrogla penises are spiky and may have evolved so that females can anchor themselves to males and then mate for prolonged periods . This would allow the females to stock up on the nutritious semen . Compared to their closest relatives , Neotrogla species can hold twice as much semen within their sperm storage organs . Scientists have speculated that a valve-like structure within this organ enables this extra storage by allowing the female to redirect semen into two separate chambers . But the organ’s small size has made it difficult to determine its inner workings , and scientists have yet to discover a switching valve that serves such a purpose within the animal kingdom . Yoshizawa et al . examined three Neotrogla species using advanced imaging technology and detected the first example of a biological switching valve . Neotrogla females can control this valve , switching the flow of semen between two slots . In this way , females can store two batches of semen at once . Seemingly exploiting this adaptation , the females’ spiky penises help them restrain males until they have received multiple semen injections . Yoshizawa et al . therefore suggest the emergence of this valve within the sperm storage organ may have promoted the evolution of the female penis . Along with giving insight into the lives of cave insects , these findings are of interest to engineers , who face challenges when constructing valves on a microscopic scale . The unique switching valve of female Neotrogla may one day inspire new man-made machinery that could advance a range of industries .
Plants , animals and other eukaryotes transport many large molecules within their cells inside membrane-bound packages called vesicles . These vesicles can fuse with the membrane of a target compartment in the cell to deliver their contents inside , or fuse with the cell’s membrane to release the contents outside of the cell . Membrane fusion is carried out by a group of proteins called SNAREs . These proteins are embedded on the membranes of both the vesicle and its target , and they bind to each other to form a tight complex . This complex docks the vesicle to the target and then acts like a “zipper” to pull the two membranes close enough to fuse . The best-studied SNARE proteins act in nerve cells and fuse vesicles to the cell’s membrane in order to release molecules called neurotransmitters . This process is essential for communication between nerve cells , and relies on a protein called Munc18-1 . However , it is not well understood how SNARE proteins assemble into the complex and how Munc18-1 regulates this process . Ma et al . have now used a tool called “optical tweezers” to pull an assembled SNARE complex apart in the laboratory and then observe how it folds and assembles in a step-by-step process . These experiments showed that the complex assembled in four stages and not three as has been reported in previous work . SNARE proteins are made up of four parts called domains , and Ma et al . observed that the N-terminal domains were the first to bind to each other . Next , the binding progressed to the middle domain , then to the C-terminal domain and finally to the linker domain . An intermediate , half-zippered form was also observed . Ma et al . next analysed each domain in more detail and found that the N-terminal and C-terminal domains drive the docking of vesicles to the target membrane , the middle domain is crucial for assembling the SNARE complex correctly , and all three domains regulate the fusing of the membranes . Further experiments showed that Munc18-1 promoted the assembly of new SNARE complexes and stabilized the half-zippered form , rather than stabilizing the complex after it had fully assembled . This study will provide a new tool to examine many other proteins that regulate SNARE assembly , and a basis to understand the role of SNARE proteins in brain activity .
The space between the cells in a multi-cellular organism is filled with a structure called the extracellular matrix . The roles of this matrix vary from tissue to tissue , and include providing the cell with structural support and signalling cues . Cells use large multi-protein structures along their plasma membrane , called cell-matrix adhesion sites , to attach to the extracellular matrix and sense its properties . These sites are rapidly self-assembled upon local cues and are dynamically maintained by exchanging their components with the cytosol of the cell . Given the large number of different proteins that can be used to build adhesion sites , and the large number of possible interactions between these proteins , a major question is—how are these structures self-assembled both rapidly and correctly ? Most research so far has concentrated on the adhesion sites themselves , as it has generally been assumed that their constituent proteins enter and leave these sites individually . However , using fluorescence techniques , Hoffmann et al . have now shown that these proteins are actually pre-assembled in the cytosol into small ‘building blocks’ . These can make the construction of cell-matrix adhesion sites quicker and more accurate by reducing the number of steps in the self-assembly process . In addition , under most circumstances , these building blocks do not change when they are exchanged between the cytosol and the adhesion site: this means that they can be re-used repeatedly and accurately . The work of Hoffmann et al . also raises questions about whether similar principles govern the self-assembly of other large intracellular multi-protein structures .
Electroencephalogram ( EEG for short ) is a widespread technique that helps to monitor the electrical activity of the brain . In particular , it can be used to examine , recognize and compare different states of brain consciousness such as sleep , wakefulness or general anesthesia . Yet , during rapid eye movement sleep ( the sleep phase in which dreaming occurs ) , the electrical activity of the brain is similar to the one recorded during wakefulness , making it difficult to distinguish these states based on EEG alone . EEG records brain activity in the shape of rhythmic waves whose frequency , shape and amplitude vary depending on the state of consciousness . In the EEG signal from the human brain , the higher frequency waves are weaker than the low-frequency waves: a measure known as spectral slope reflects the degree of this difference in the signal strength . Previous research suggests that spectral slope can be used to distinguish wakefulness from anesthesia and non-REM sleep . Here , Lendner et al . explored whether certain elements of the spectral slope could also discern wakefulness from all states of reduced arousal . EEG readings were taken from patients and volunteers who were awake , asleep or under anesthesia , using electrodes placed either on the scalp or into the brain . Lendner et al . found that the spectral slope could distinguish wakefulness from anesthesia , deep non-REM and REM sleep . The changes in the spectral slope during sleep could accurately track the degree of arousal with great temporal precision and across a wide range of time scales . This method means that states of consciousness can be spotted just from a scalp EEG . In the future , this approach could be embedded into the techniques used for monitoring sleep or anesthesia during operations; it could also be harnessed to monitor other low-response states , such as comas .
Within a plant’s cells , compartments called chloroplasts harvest energy from sunlight . This process , termed photosynthesis , keeps the plant alive and growing . Yet this is not all that chloroplasts do . For example , if a harmful microbe infects the plant , its chloroplasts rapidly change shape and move toward the cell’s nucleus – the compartment of the cell that contains the bulk of the plant’s genetic material . The chloroplasts then send warning signals to the nucleus that boost the plant’s defenses . In 2015 , researchers showed that , during an infection , tiny tubes called stromules extend out from chloroplasts and make contact with the nucleus . Stromules are flexible structures that can extend and retract . However , it is not yet understood what exactly the stromules do , or how they establish connections with the nucleus . Some scientists had suggested the internal skeleton of the cell – a complex network of protein filaments called actin and microtubules – might regulate the movements of the stromules . Now , Kumar , Park et al . – including several researchers from the 2015 study – have monitored the interaction between stromules and this internal “cytoskeleton” in leaf cells from a plant called Nicotiana benthamiana . Stromules , microtubules and actin were marked with fluorescent tags , which allowed them to be tracked under a microscope . This showed that the stromules actively extend along microtubules and anchor to a network of actin filaments . Further work showed that chloroplasts move in the direction of the stromules . This suggests that chloroplast movement may actually be directed by these structures . This movement was seen in healthy plants growing under normal conditions , suggesting that it may be a more general occurrence in plants . Next , Kumar , Park et al . used a viral protein to provoke an immune response in the plants , and saw that a larger number of chloroplasts moved and clustered around the nucleus . This chloroplast clustering was also guided by stromules anchored to the actin filaments that surround the nucleus . These findings shed new light on how chloroplasts communicate with the nucleus . Future work is needed to determine if stromules just guide chloroplast movement or if they provide a physical force that drives this process .
Proteins are considered the ‘workhorse molecules’ of life and they are involved in virtually everything that cells do . Proteins are strings of amino acids that have folded into a specific three-dimensional shape . Proteins must have the correct shape to function properly , as they often work by binding to other proteins or molecules—much like a key fitting into a lock . Working out the structure of a protein can , therefore , provide major insights into how the protein does its job . Two or more proteins can bind together and form a complex to perform various tasks; and solving the structures of these complexes can be challenging , even if the structures of the protein subunits are known . Now , Ovchinnikov , Kamisetty , and Baker have developed a method for predicting which parts of the proteins make contact with each other in a two-protein complex . Different species can have copies of the same proteins; but a copy from one species might have different amino acids at certain positions when compared to a related copy from another species . As such , when pairs of interacting proteins from different species are compared , there will be many positions in the two proteins that vary . However , if the amino acid at a position in one protein ( let's call it ‘X’ ) varies , and the amino acid at , say , position ‘Y’ in the other protein also varies such that for any given amino acid at position Y there is often a specific amino acid at position X; positions X and Y are said to ‘co-vary’ . Ovchinnikov et al . noticed that when a pair of amino acids ( one from each protein in a two-protein complex ) co-varied , these two amino acids tended to make contact with each other at the protein–protein interface . Ovchinnikov et al . used the new method to make predictions about the protein–protein interfaces in 28 protein complexes found in bacteria , and also to make a prediction about the interface between protein subunits in the bacterial ribosome . When these predictions were checked against the actual structures , which were all known beforehand , they were found to be accurate if the number of copies of each protein being compared is greater than the average length of the two proteins . Ovchinnikov et al . went on to predict the amino acids on the protein–protein interfaces for another 36 bacterial protein complexes with unknown structures , and to present models for four larger complexes . The next challenge is to extend the method to protein complexes that are found only in eukaryotes ( i . e . , not in bacteria ) . Since the number of related copies for eukaryotic proteins tends to be smaller , there are fewer proteins to compare and it is therefore harder to detect ‘covariation’ when it occurs .
To interact with the world around us , we need to decide how best to direct our eyes and other senses to extract relevant information . When viewing a scene , people fixate on a sequence of locations by making fast eye movements to shift their gaze between locations . Previous studies have shown that these fixations are not random , but are actively chosen so that they depend on both the scene and the task . For example , in order to determine the gender or emotion from a face , we fixate around the eyes or the nose , respectively . Previous studies have only analyzed whether humans choose the optimal fixation locations in very simple situations , such as searching for a square among a set of circles . Therefore , it is not known how efficient we are at optimizing our rapid eye movements to extract high-level information from visual scenes , such as determining whether an image of fur belongs to a cheetah or a zebra . Yang , Lengyel and Wolpert developed a mathematical model that determines the amount of information that can be extracted from an image by any set of fixation locations . The model could also work out the next best fixation location that would maximize the amount of information that could be collected . This model shows that humans are about 70% efficient in planning each eye movement . Furthermore , it suggests that the inefficiencies are largely caused by imperfect vision and inaccurate eye movements . Yang , Lengyel and Wolpert’s findings indicate that we combine information from multiple locations to direct our eye movements so that we can maximize the information we collect from our surroundings . The next challenge is to extend this mathematical model and experimental approach to even more complex visual tasks , such as judging an individual’s intentions , or working out the relationships between people in real-life settings .
Eukaryotes , such as animals , plants and fungi , store the genetic material within their cells inside a specific compartment called the nucleus . Surrounding the nucleus is a protective membrane which molecules must pass across in order to reach the cell’s DNA . Straddling the membrane are nuclear pore complexes , or NPCs for short , which act as the gatekeepers to the nucleus , shuttling thousands of different molecules back and forth whilst restricting access to others . Large cargoes need to have specific markers on their surface called nuclear localization signals in order to be transported by NPCs . Certain transporter proteins help the NPC carry large molecules across the membrane by binding to these signals . This generates the energy needed to overcome the barrier of transporting it across the membrane . Some viruses have nuclear localization signals of their own , which can exploit this transport system; these signals allow the virus to enter the nucleus and hijack the genetic machinery of the cell . It has been suggested that viruses have multiple copies of these surface signals to improve their chances of reaching the nucleus . However , it remained unclear how the number of nuclear localization signals affects the transport of large molecules into the nucleus . To answer this question , Paci et al . engineered a range of different sized particles derived from viral structures which had varying numbers of nuclear localization signals on their surface . These particles were inserted into human cell lines grown in the laboratory , and imaged to see how they were transported into the nucleus . The rate of nuclear transport was then measured for each particle , and this data was used to create a mathematical model . Paci et al . found that the larger the cargo , the more nuclear localization signals it needed to be efficiently transported across the membrane into the nucleus . This is because inserting big cargoes into the NPC requires more energy . Therefore , by increasing the number of surface signals transporter proteins can bind to , larger molecules are able to interact with the NPC and generate the energy required for crossing . These findings improve our current understanding of how nuclear transport could be hijacked by viruses . It could also help scientists who are developing targeted nanoparticles to deliver therapies for genetic conditions to the nucleus .
Invasion by a bacterium or virus typically activates a mammalian host's immune system to eliminate the pathogen . The cells of the so-called ‘innate immune system’ are the body's first line of defense against infection , and these cells patrol the organs and tissues in an effort to locate and eliminate pathogens quickly . The innate immune response is rapid and non-specific , but often cannot completely clear an infection . When necessary , innate immune cells will escalate the immune response by activating the second branch of the immune system , called the ‘adaptive immune system’ . This specifically targets and eradicates an invading pathogen . T cells are essential components of the adaptive immune system , and these cells can be readily distinguished from other types of cell by proteins called T cell receptors ( or TCRs ) found on their surface . There are also different types of T cell , each with a specific function . T helper cells , for example , help other adaptive immune cells to mature and activate , which involves these immune cells proliferating and developing into more specialized cells . For a T cell to activate , two events must occur at the same time . First , the TCR must recognize and bind to a fragment of the pathogen that is presented to it by an innate immune cell . And second , ‘co-stimulatory molecules’ present on the surfaces of both the T cell and the same innate immune cell must interact . Using these two signals to activate a T cell helps to ensure the adaptive immune response is not ‘unleashed‘ unnecessarily . Co-stimulatory molecules have become popular targets for therapies aimed at treating autoimmune disorders—where the immune system attacks and destroys the body's own tissues . One of the most well studied co-stimulatory molecules expressed by T cells is called CD28; however , it remained unknown whether CD28 is involved in any processes after T cell activation . Now , Linterman et al . reveal that the CD28 co-stimulatory molecule plays a number of roles in addition to T cell activation . For example , a newly developed mouse model showed that CD28 must remain on the surface of T helper cells after they have been activated for these cells to effectively specialize . Linterman et al . also discovered that CD28 helps different T helper cell subtypes to develop . Linterman et al . demonstrate that CD28 is critical throughout a host's response to infection , and suggest that if CD28 is lost on activated T cells ( which happens during aging , HIV infection and autoimmune diseases ) the responses of T helper cells become limited . Furthermore , these findings reveal that treatments that target the CD28 co-stimulatory molecule will also affect on-going immune responses .
Round spheres , straight rods , and twisting corkscrews , bacteria come in many different shapes . The shape of bacteria is dictated by their cell wall , the strong outer barrier of the cell . As bacteria grow and multiply , they must add to their cell wall while keeping the same basic shape . The cells walls are made from long chain-like molecules via processes that are guided by protein scaffolds within the cell . Many common antibiotics , including penicillin , stop bacterial infections by interrupting the growth of cell walls . Helicobacter pylori is a common bacterium that lives in the gut and , after many years , can cause stomach ulcers and stomach cancer . H . pylori are shaped in a twisting helix , much like a corkscrew . This shape helps H . pylori to take hold and colonize the stomach . It remains unclear how H . pylori creates and maintains its helical shape . The helix is much more curved than other bacteria , and H . pylori does not have the same helpful proteins that other curved bacteria do . If H . pylori grows asymmetrically , adding more material to the cell wall on its long outer side to create a twisting helix , what controls the process ? To find out , Taylor et al . grew H . pylori cells and watched how the cell walls took shape . First , a fluorescent dye was attached to the building blocks of the cell wall or to underlying proteins that were thought to help direct its growth . The cells were then imaged in 3D , and images from hundreds of cells were reconstructed to analyze the growth patterns of the bacteria’s cell wall . A protein called CcmA was found most often on the long side of the twisting H . pylori . When the CcmA protein was isolated in a dish , it spontaneously formed sheets and helical bundles , confirming its role as a structural scaffold for the cell wall . When CcmA was absent from the cell of H . pylori , Taylor et al . observed that the pattern of cell growth changed substantially . This work identifies a key component directing the growth of the cell wall of H . pylori and therefore , a new target for antibiotics . Its helical shape is essential for H . pylori to infect the gut , so blocking the action of the CcmA protein may interrupt cell wall growth and prevent stomach infections .
Mitochondria are little compartments within a cell that produce the energy needed for most biological processes . Each cell possesses several mitochondria , which can fuse together and then break again into smaller units . This fusion process is essential for cellular health . Two proteins in the cell have a major role in controlling mitochondrial fusion: Ubp12 and Ubp2 . Ubp12 prevents fusion , while Ubp2 activates it . These molecules carry out their roles by acting on a third protein called mitofusin , which is a key gatekeeper of the fusion mechanism . Cells often ‘tag’ proteins with small molecules called ubiquitin to change the protein’s role and how it interacts with other cellular structures . Depending on how they are ‘tagged’ , mitofusins can exist in two forms . One type of tagging means that the protein then promotes fusion of the mitochondria; the other leads to the mitofusin being destroyed by the cell . It is still unclear how Ubp12 , Ubp2 and the different forms of mitofusins interact with each other to finely control mitochondrial fusion . Here , Simões , Schuster et al . clarify these interactions in yeast and show how these proteins are themselves regulated . Ubp2 promotes fusion by attaching to the mitofusin that is labeled to be destroyed , and removing this tag: the mitofusin will then not be degraded , and can promote fusion . Ubp12 prevents fusion through two mechanisms . First , it can remove the ‘pro-fusion’ tag on the mitofusin that prompts mitochondrial fusion . Second , Simões , Schuster et al . now show that Ubp12 also inhibits Ubp2 and its fusion-promoting activity . In turn , the experiments reveal that a master protein called Cdc48 can control the entire Ubp12-Ubp2-mitofusin pathway . Cdc48 directly represses Ubp12 and therefore its anti-fusion activity . This inhibition also leaves Ubp2 free to stimulate fusion through its action on mitofusin . The molecules involved in controlling mitochondrial fusion in yeast are very similar to the ones in people . In humans , improper regulation of mitofusins causes an incurable disease of the nerves and the brain called Charcot-Marie-Tooth 2A . Understanding how the fusion of mitochondria is controlled can lead to new drug discoveries .
The world is full of rich and dynamic visual information . To avoid information overload , the human brain groups inputs into categories such as faces , houses , or tools . A part of the brain called the ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( VOTC ) helps categorize visual information . Specific parts of the VOTC prefer different types of visual input; for example , one part may tend to respond more to faces , whilst another may prefer houses . However , it is not clear how the VOTC characterizes information . One idea is that similarities between certain types of visual information may drive how information is organized in the VOTC . For example , looking at faces requires using central vision , while looking at houses requires using peripheral vision . Furthermore , all faces have a roundish shape while houses tend to have a more rectangular shape . Another possibility , however , is that the categorization of different inputs cannot be explained just by vision , and is also be driven by higher-level aspects of each category . For instance , how humans use or interact with something may also influence how an input is categorized . If categories are established depending ( at least partially ) on these higher-level aspects , rather than purely through visual likeness , it is likely that the VOTC would respond similarly to both sounds and images representing these categories . Now , Mattioni et al . have tested how individuals with and without sight respond to eight different categories of information to find out whether or not categorization is driven purely by visual likeness . Each category was presented to participants using sounds while measuring their brain activity . In addition , a group of participants who could see were also presented with the categories visually . Mattioni et al . then compared what happened in the VOTC of the three groups – sighted people presented with sounds , blind people presented with sounds , and sighted people presented with images – in response to each category . The experiment revealed that the VOTC organizes both auditory and visual information in a similar way . However , there were more similarities between the way blind people categorized auditory information and how sighted people categorized visual information than between how sighted people categorized each type of input . Mattioni et al . also found that the region of the VOTC that responds to inanimate objects massively overlapped across the three groups , whereas the part of the VOTC that responds to living things was more variable . These findings suggest that the way that the VOTC organizes information is , at least partly , independent from vision . The experiments also provide some information about how the brain reorganizes in people who are born blind . Further studies may reveal how differences in the VOTC of people with and without sight affect regions typically associated with auditory categorization , and potentially explain how the brain reorganizes in people who become blind later in life .
We are surrounded by billions of microbes , many of which live on or even inside us . With some of these tiny creatures we share a mutually beneficial relationship , and they help to protect and nourish us in return for food and shelter . But some microbes have taken this relationship a step further and evolved the ability to manipulate the behavior of their host animals to their advantage . For example , certain fungi can hijack the nervous systems of ants , turning them into ‘zombies’ that are forced to climb to the precise height of a plant with the right conditions for the fungus to grow . Another fungus , called Entomophthora muscae , induces a similar behavior in flies . Like with the ants , this fungus forces the flies to climb to a high location and to attach themselves to the plant with their mouthparts , so providing a basis for the fungus to grow . Due to the lack of knowledge and tools that allow us to study the genes and cells of many of these host species , it remains unclear how these microbes can manipulate other animals and change their behavior . Now , Elya et al . wanted to find out whether this process can be examined in a well-known ‘model organism’ , the fruit fly . The fruit flies were infected with E . muscae obtained from the wild and activity patterns in the genes of both organisms were tracked . One day after infection with the fungus , the flies developed a strong immune response to the invader , and many genes involved in the immune system were overactive . After two days , the fungus started to adopt the shape that eventually kills the flies and began to invade the nervous system . By the third day , the fungus had spread throughout the body and most flies died around four to five days following infection . Two to three hours after the flies had died , the digestive and reproductive systems had been consumed by the fungus and the nervous system was in the process of being degraded . Contrary to other infected organisms , the fungus got inside the fly’s nervous system during the early stages of infection . This could be an important clue as to how the fungus changes the fly’s behavior , but more research is needed to confirm this . The techniques developed in the study of Elya et al . can now be used to study how exactly microbes affect their hosts . A better knowledge of the relationship between these organisms will provide new insight into how animal behaviors are encoded and generated .
Cells contain a large group of DNA-like molecules called RNAs . While DNA stores and preserves information , RNA influences how cells use and regulate that information . As such , regulating the quantities of different RNAs is a key part of how cells survive , grow , adapt and respond to changes . For example , messenger RNAs ( or mRNAs for short ) carry genetic information from DNA which the cell reads to produce proteins . RNAs that are not needed can be degraded and removed from the cell by RNA degradation proteins . Most RNA degradation proteins need to be able to bind to RNA in order to work . A technique called “photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation” , often shortened to PAR-CLIP , can detect these proteins on their targets . The PAR-CLIP technique irreversibly links RNA-binding proteins to RNA and then collects those proteins and their bound RNAs for analysis . As with DNA , the RNAs can be identified using genetic sequencing . Degradation often starts at RNA ends , where specialized structures protect the RNA from accidental damage . Using PAR-CLIP , Sohrabi-Jahromi , Hofmann et al performed a detailed study of 30 RNA degradation proteins in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The results highlight the specialization of different proteins to different groups of RNAs . One group of proteins , for example , remove the protective ‘cap’ structure at the start of RNAs . Those mRNAs that are not efficiently producing proteins attracted a lot of these cap-removing proteins . The findings also identify proteins involved in RNA degradation in the cell nucleus – the compartment that houses most of the cell’s DNA . Together these findings provide an extensive data resource for cell biologists . It offers many links between different RNAs and their degradation proteins . Understanding these key cellular processes helps to reveal more about the mechanisms underlying all of biology . It can also shed light on what happens when these processes fail and the diseases that may result .
In the fight against harmful fungi and bacteria , plants have an arsenal of chemicals at their disposal . For instance , species in the crucifer family – which includes mustard , cabbages and the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana – can defend themselves with camalexin , a compound produced soon after the plant receives signals from its attacker . What controls this precise timing , however , is still unclear . For the genes that rule the production of camalexin to be ‘read’ , interpreted , and ultimately converted into proteins , their DNA sequences first need to be physically accessible to the cell . This availability is controlled , in part , by adding or removing chemical groups onto histones , the spool-like structures which DNA wraps around . These precisely controlled modifications ultimately help to activate or repress a gene . Sometimes , activating and inhibiting chemical groups can be present in the same location , creating what is known as a bivalent chromatin domain . Zhao et al . investigated whether histone modifications regulate when A . thaliana produces camalexin in response to an attack . A combination of bioinformatics and experimental approaches highlighted two chemical modifications ( one repressive , the other activating ) which were present on the same histone , forming a previously unknown bivalent chromatin domain . Mutant plants which did not carry these modifications could not produce camalexin at the right time . Further experiments showed that under normal conditions , both histone modifications were present . However , when the plant was under attack , the level of repressive and activating modifications respectively decreased and increased , leading to gene activation . Together , the results by Zhao et al . suggest that both histone modifications are required for camalexin genes to respond appropriately to signals from a harmful agent . A deeper understanding of this new mechanism could , in turn , allow scientists to engineer crops that are better at resisting disease .
In addition to the billions of nerve cells called neurons , the brain and spinal cord also contain star-shaped cells called astrocytes . At first it was thought that all astrocytes were the same , but it later became clear that there are several different types of astrocytes that perform different functions . Most neurons are formed in the embryo , but some astrocytes that are found deep within the brain can act as ‘neurogenic stem cells’ and continue to produce new neurons during adult life . However , it was not clear how these neurogenic astrocytes were different from other astrocytes . Now Hwang et al . have found that neurogenic astrocytes contain a protein called EZH2 that is not found in other types of astrocyte in the adult brain . Researchers already knew that this protein , which acts to help keep DNA tightly packed inside the nucleus and to keep genes switched off , was important for brain development . EZH2 was also known to prevent stem cells from prematurely turning into specialized cell types . But , surprisingly , Hwang et al . found that EZH2 has two distinct roles in neurogenic astrocytes: it allows them to multiply to make more astrocytes , and it also helps guide astrocytes into becoming neurons . Hwang et al . showed that different sets of genes were involved in these two roles .
Microorganisms help to drive a number of processes that recycle energy and nutrients , including elements such as carbon , nitrogen , and sulfur , around the Earth's ecosystems . Viruses that infect microbes can also affect these cycles by killing and breaking open microbial cells , or by reprogramming the cell's metabolism . However , as there are many different species of microbes and viruses —the vast majority of which cannot easily be grown in the laboratory— little is known about most virus–host interactions in natural ecosystems , especially in the oceans . In the world's oceans , the concentration of oxygen dissolved in the water changes in different regions and at different depths . ‘Oxygen minimum zones’ occur globally throughout the oceans at depths of 200–1000 meters , and climate change is causing these zones to expand and intensify . Although a lack of oxygen is sometimes considered detrimental to living organisms , oxygen minimum zones appear to be rich with microbial life that is adapted to thrive under oxygen-starved conditions . Sulfur-oxidizing bacteria are one of the most abundant groups of microbes in these oxygen minimum zones , and several of these bacteria are known to influence the recycling of chemical substances . Now , Roux et al . introduce a new method to identify viruses that infect the microbes in this environment , including those microbes that cannot be grown in the laboratory and which have previously remained largely unexplored . The genomes of 127 individual bacterial cells —collected from an oxygen minimum zone in western Canada— were examined . Roux et al . estimate that about a third of the sulfur-oxidizing bacterial cells are infected by at least one virus , but often multiple viruses infected the same bacterium . Five new genera ( groups of one or more species ) of viruses were also discovered and found to infect these bacteria . Looking for these new viral sequences in the DNA of this oxygen minimum zone's microbial community revealed that these newly discovered viruses persist in this region over several years . It also revealed that these viruses appear to only be found within the oxygen minimum zone . Roux et al . uncovered that these viruses carry genes that could manipulate how an infected bacterium processes sulfur-containing compounds; this is similar to previous observations showing that other viruses also influence cellular process ( such as photosynthesis ) in infected bacteria . As such , these newly discovered viruses might also influence the recycling of chemical elements within oxygen minimum zones . Together , Roux et al . 's findings provide an unprecedented look into a wild virus community using a method that can be generalized to uncover viruses in a data type that is quickly becoming more widespread: single cell genomes . This effort to understand virus–host interactions by looking in the genomes of individual cells now sets the stage for future efforts aimed to uncover the impact of viruses on bacteria in other environments across the globe .
Sperm cells have tails called flagella that propel them towards an egg . Other cells have similar , but shorter , structures called cilia that sway back and forth on their surface . In addition to sweeping dust and debris out of our lungs and airways , cilia have a number of other crucial roles during development . This means that faulty cilia can lead to serious birth defects , as well as diseases of the kidneys and respiratory system . Cilia and flagella are made from proteins that are assembled in a process called intraflagellar transport or IFT for short . Around 20 proteins are thought to be involved in this process , but the precise role of many of these proteins remains unclear . Now Ishikawa et al . have compared the versions of one of these proteins , called TTC26 , that are found in zebrafish , mouse cells , and a single-celled alga called Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that uses a pair of flagella to move around . This protein localizes to the cilia of mice cells and can be seen to move along these cilia in a manner typical of other IFT proteins . Ishikawa et al . then blocked production of TTC26 in zebrafish embryos , which caused these embryos to fail to develop the correct left–right asymmetry , and these fish also had problems with their eyes , ears , and kidneys . Furthermore and although cilia were present in the affected zebrafish , these cilia were shortened and moved abnormally . Ishikawa et al . also found that algae that had a mutation in the gene that codes for TTC26 had short cilia that moved in an abnormal way . The findings of Ishikawa et al . suggest that TTC26 may help to transport a specific subset of proteins into the cilia . If other IFT proteins are also shown to carry distinct subsets of cargo , this might explain why as many as 20 different proteins are involved in the IFT process .
The death rates for many types of cancer have dropped , but melanoma remains a serious concern . This type of skin cancer is especially aggressive because it can spread to distant organs . Melanoma often spreads via the lymphatic system , a network of vessels that extends throughout the body to drain fluid from the body’s tissues . The lymphatic system also includes structures – called lymph nodes – that filter bacteria from this fluid; this helps to defend against infection . When melanoma spreads to lymph nodes and distant organs , clinicians diagnose it as Stage IV melanoma . For patients at this stage , the outcome is often poor . It is clear that melanoma exploits lymph vessels to spread throughout the body . But researchers also suspect that vessel cells interact with the cancer cells , helping the melanoma invade distant organs . Understanding exactly how lymph vessels promote the spread of melanoma will lead to better options for treating this aggressive cancer . Pekkonen , Alve et al . investigated whether exposing human melanoma cells to cells from the walls of human lymph vessels would make the cancer cells more aggressive . Indeed , after growing the two cell types together in the laboratory , the melanoma cells became more invasive . When transplanted into mice , these cancer cells spread to and invaded the rodents’ distant organs . Pekkonen , Alve et al . conducted a series of experiments to identify specific proteins in the melanoma cellsthat were responsible for making the cancer more invasive after it interacted with the lymph vessel cells . These experiments identified proteins called MMP14 , Notch3 , and β1-integrin as critical to the invasive spread of melanoma cells . When melanoma cells with less MMP14 or Notch3 were implanted into zebrafish , the cancer cells spread less efficiently . These findings may represent new leads that clinicians can test to see if they are markers of cancers that are most likely to spread and that the pharmaceutical industry can pursue to treat melanoma patients .
Messages are sent back and forth in our brains by cells called neurons that connect to each other in complex networks . Neurons develop from stem cells in a complicated process that involves a number of different stages . In one of the final stages , tree-like structures called dendrites emerge from the neurons and connect with neighboring neurons via special junctions called synapses . A group of small RNA molecules called microRNAs have roles in controlling the development of neurons . One microRNA , called miR-9 , is abundant in the brain and is known to be involved in the early stages of neuron development . However , its role in the formation of dendrites and synapses remains unclear . Giusti et al . studied this microRNA in mice . A length of DNA , coding for an RNA molecule that binds to miR-9 molecules and stops them performing their normal function , was inserted into the mice . These experiments showed that miR-9 is involved in controlling dendrite growth and synaptic function . To enable a neuron to produce dendrites , miR-9 binds to and interferes with the RNA molecules that are needed to make a protein called REST . This protein is a transcription factor that switches off the expression of other genes so , in effect , miR-9 allows a set of genes that are needed for dendrite growth to be switched on . The methodology developed by Giusti et al . could be used to study the functions of other microRNAs .
Many parents of children with autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) spot the first signs when their child is still a toddler , by noticing that their child is less interested than other toddlers in people and in social play . These early differences in behavior can have long-term implications for brain development . The brains of toddlers with little interest in social stimuli will receive less social input than those of other toddlers . This will make it even harder for the brain to develop the circuits required to support social skills . But even among children with ASD , there are large differences in children's interest in the social world . One way of measuring these differences is to track eye movements . Lombardo et al . presented toddlers with and without ASD with images of moving colorful geometric shapes next to videos of dancing children . The majority of toddlers , including most of those with ASD , spent more time looking at the children than the shapes . But about 20% of the toddlers with ASD spent most of their time looking at the shapes . These toddlers also had the most severe social symptoms . To find out why , Lombardo et al . measured the toddlers' brain activity while they slept . During sleep , or when at rest , the brain shows stereotyped patterns of activity . Groups of brain regions that work together – such as those involved in vision – fire in synchrony . Lombardo et al . found that toddlers who preferred looking at shapes over people showed different patterns of brain activity while asleep compared to other children . In the toddlers who preferred shapes , brain networks involved in social skills were less likely to coordinate their activity with networks that support vision and attention . These findings suggest there may be multiple subtypes of ASD , with different symptoms resulting from different patterns of brain activity . At present , all children who receive a diagnosis of ASD receive much the same behavioral therapy . But in the future , studies of brain networks could allow children to receive more specific diagnoses . This could in turn lead to more effective and personalized treatments .
Insects have several different types of blood cell , many of which are unable to divide to form new cells once they have matured . Instead , fresh blood cells are normally generated in specialized ‘hematopoietic’ organs , such as the lymph gland in the Drosophila species of fruit fly . The structure of these organs plays an important role in controlling how new blood cells develop . Drosophila embryos make two types of blood cell: plasmatocytes and crystal cells . Both defend against harmful microorganisms , but in different ways . Plasmatocytes engulf and destroy invaders , whereas crystal cells release chemicals that encase microbes in a hardened gel . The blood cells made in the Drosophila embryo are still present once the fly enters its larval stages . At this stage of development , most of the blood cells are found in clusters attached to the cuticle that covers the larva's surface , but a few circulate freely around the larva's body . As a Drosophila larva develops , the number of blood cells in the larva increases . However , previous work has shown these additional blood cells are not normally released from the lymph gland of the larva . Furthermore , mature crystal cells do not appear to form new cells by dividing in two . Leitão and Sucena now show that the stationary clusters of blood cells produce new crystal cells in Drosophila larvae . Within the clusters , plasmatocytes are made to turn into crystal cells via a signaling pathway controlled by a protein called Notch . This pathway was already known to be essential for forming crystal cells . Leitão and Sucena also show that the structure of the clusters influences whether crystal cells are made , which means that the clusters can be considered to be hematopoietic tissue . It is now important to compare how the production of the same cell type is controlled in two distinct hematopoietic structures: the clusters and the lymph gland . From this comparison , general principles may be drawn and tested in other systems , including vertebrates .
Evolution is driven by changes to the genes and other genetic information found in the DNA of an organism . These changes might , for example , alter the physical characteristics of the organism , or change how efficiently crucial tasks are carried out inside cells . Whatever the change , if it makes it easier for the organism to survive and reproduce , it is more likely to be passed on to future generations . DNA is organized inside cells in structures called chromosomes . Most of the cells in animals , plants , and fungi contain two copies of each chromosome . However , sometimes mistakes happen during cell division and extra copies of a chromosome—and hence the genes contained within it—may end up in a cell . These extra copies of genes might help to speed up the rate at which a species evolves , as the ‘spare’ copies are free to adapt to new roles . However , having extra copies of genes can also often be harmful , and in humans can cause genetic disorders such as Down syndrome . In the laboratory , chromosomes are commonly studied in a species of yeast called Saccharomyces cerevisiae . This species consists of several groups—or strains—that are genetically distinct from each other . Over the years , breeding the yeast for experiments has created laboratory strains that have lost some of the characteristics seen in wild strains . Earlier studies suggested that these cells fail to grow properly if they contain extra copies of chromosomes . Now , Hose et al . have studied nearly 50 wild strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae . In these , extra copies of chromosomes are commonplace , and seemingly have no detrimental effect on growth . Instead , Hose et al . found that cells with too many copies of a gene use many of those genes less often than would be expected . This process is known as ‘dosage compensation’ . This dosage compensation has not been observed in laboratory strains , in part because the extra gene copies make them sickly and hard to study . Together , the results provide examples of how dosage compensation could help new traits to evolve in a species by reducing the negative effects of duplicated genes . This knowledge may have broad application , from suggesting methods to alleviate human disorders to implicating new ways to engineer useful traits in yeast and other microbes .
Eyes are elaborate organs that many animals use to detect light and see , but light can also be sensed in other , simpler ways and for purposes other than seeing . All animals that perceive light rely on cells called photoreceptors , which come in two main types: ciliary or rhabdomeric . Sometimes , an organism has both types of photoreceptors , but one is typically more important than the other . For example , most vertebrates see using ciliary photoreceptors , while rhabdomeric photoreceptors underpin vision in invertebrates . Flatworms are invertebrates that have long been studied due to their ability to regenerate following injuries . These worms have rhabdomeric photoreceptors in their eyes , but they also have unusual cells outside their eyes that have cilia – slender protuberances from the cell body - and could potentially be light sensitive . One obvious way to test if a cell is a photoreceptor is to see if it produces any light-sensing proteins , such as opsins . Until recently it was thought that each type of photoreceptor produced a different opsin , which were therefore classified into rhabdomeric of ciliary opsins . However , recent work has identified a new type of opsin , called xenopsin , in the ciliary photoreceptors of the larvae of some marine invertebrates . To determine whether the cells outside the flatworm’s eye were ciliary photoreceptors , Rawlinson et al . examined the genetic code of 30 flatworm species looking for ciliary opsin and xenopsin genes . This search revealed that all the flatworm species studied contained the genetic sequence for xenopsin , but not for the ciliary opsin . Rawlinson et al . chose the tiger flatworm to perform further experiments . First , they showed that , in this species , xenopsin genes are active both in the eyes of larvae and in the unusual ciliary cells found outside the eyes of the adult . Next , they put the xenopsin from the tiger flatworm into human embryonic kidney cells , and found that when the protein is present these cells can respond to light . This demonstrates that the newly discovered xenopsin is light-sensitive , suggesting that the unusual ciliary cells found expressing this protein outside the eyes in flatworms are likely photoreceptive cells . It is unclear why flatworms have developed these unusual ciliary photoreceptor cells or what their purpose is outside the eye . Often , photoreceptor cells outside the eyes are used to align the ‘body clock’ with the day-night cycle . This can be a factor in healing , hinting perhaps that these newly found cells may have a role in flatworms’ ability to regenerate .
The human brain is considered to be the most complicated object in the universe , but it only takes a handful of stem cells to make one . The process depends on two types of information: signals separated across space and time . Spatial cues tell a stem cell what type of cell it is going to be , while temporal cues work as molecular clocks to generate a sequence of different neurons over time . Together , these cues generate the large array of cell types in the nervous system . Each stem cell occupies its own space in the developing body and receives its own spatial cues , but they all follow the same timeline . For example , proteins called transcription factors act as molecular clocks and interact with specific genes , telling the cell when to turn them on or off . The same series of transcription factors operates in different stem cells , but they have different effects . So far , it has been unclear whether spatial and temporal signals work independently or sequentially to generate new cell types . To find out , Sen et al . studied two distinct , developing stem cells in fruit flies , which receive different spatial signals . Transcription factors only work if they are able to get to their target genes . Cells can open or close access to different genes by changing the structure of the chromatin wrapping that surrounds the genes . In the experiments , a marker was used to reveal the areas of open chromatin in each of the cells . Another marker was used to track the transcription factors . The results showed that the areas of open chromatin varied between stem cells . Moreover , although both cells used the same transcription factor called Hunchback , it targeted different genes in each stem cell . This was due to changes in the chromatin wrapping: Hunchback only acted in areas where the chromatin was open . This suggests that the spatial cues first sculpt the chromatin , making some genes easier to get to than others . Then , the same transcription factors go to the accessible gene , which will differ from one stem cell to another . These findings help us to understand how different types of brain cells develop , which may also aid us in finding a way how to engineer specific cell types . If we could turn stem cells into different types of brain cells , it might help us to treat brain diseases . This may involve giving the right spatial signal before starting the temporal cues .
Protein receptors in the cell membrane play an important role transmitting signals from outside to inside the cell . Members of the P2X family of receptors are ion channels that form pores through the membrane . When a molecule of ATP binds to the external region of the receptor , it activates it and causes the receptor to change from a closed to an open shape . Once opened , ions flow through the channel’s pore and trigger a response inside the cell . P2X receptors are found on most animal cells ( including nerve cells ) and are involved in both normal cellular activity and processes linked to disease , including inflammation and chronic pain . The P2X receptor has three parts or subunits , and each contributes to the channel’s pore . Recent research using a technique called X-ray crystallography has revealed how ATP binding causes shape changes in the external region of the receptor . But these three-dimensional structures did not reveal details of how the subunits move to open or close the channel’s pore . Habermacher et al . have now added light-sensitive linkers onto the P2X receptor in a way that meant that different colors of light could be used to force parts of the receptor to come closer together or move apart . This allowed the pore to be opened and closed in response to changes in light . Habermacher et al . then studied the behavior of these modified receptors within a natural membrane and found that the light stimulated movements were similar to those seen with ATP . When the behavior of the receptor and light-sensitive linkers was studied using computer simulations , it led to new models of the P2X pore in the open and closed state . In these models , the open channel was more tightly packed than in the previous structure and an unexpected hinge-bending movement was seen to accompany the opening of the channel . It is hoped that this new approach will also be useful for probing how other membrane proteins change their shape when activated .
The successful division of one cell into two is essential for all organisms to live , grow and reproduce . For an animal cell , the nucleus – the compartment containing the genetic material – must divide before the surrounding material . The rest of the cell , called the cytoplasm , physically separates later in a process known as cytokinesis . Cytokinesis in animal cells is driven by the formation of a ring in the middle of the dividing cell . The ring is composed of myosin motor proteins and filaments made of a protein called actin . The movements of the motor proteins along the filaments cause the ring to contract and tighten . This pulls the cell membrane inward and physically pinches the cell into two . For a long time , the mechanism of cytokinesis was assumed to be same across different types of animal cell , but later evidence suggested otherwise . For example , in liver , heat and bone cells , cytokinesis naturally fails during development to create cells with two or more nuclei . If a similar ‘failure’ happened in other cell types , it could lead to diseases such as cancers or blood disorders . This raised the question: what are the molecular mechanisms that allow cytokinesis to happen differently in different cell types ? Davies et al . investigated this question using embryos of the worm Caenorhabditis elegans at a stage in their development when they consist of just four cells . The proteins forming the contractile ring in this worm are the same as those in humans . However , in the worm , the contractile ring can easily be damaged using chemical inhibitors or by mutating the genes that encode its proteins . Davies et al . show that when the contractile ring was damaged , two of the four cells in the worm embryo still divided successfully . This result indicates the existence of new mechanisms to divide the cytoplasm that allow division even with a weak contractile ring . In a further experiment , the embryos were dissected to isolate each of the four cells . Davies et al . saw that one of the two dividing cells could still divide on its own , while the other cell could not . This shows that this new method of cytokinesis is regulated both by factors inherent to the dividing cell and by external signals from other cells . Moreover , one of these extrinsic signals was found to be a signaling protein that had previously been implicated in human cancers . Future work will determine if these variations in cytokinesis between the different cell types found in the worm apply to humans too; and , more importantly from a therapeutic standpoint , if these new mechanisms exist in human cancers .
While a few of the bacteria that live in and on the bodies of humans and other animals are harmful and can cause disease , most others can offer benefits to their hosts . Many bacteria—including some important human pathogens—have tails called flagella that rotate to move the bacteria inside its host . However , the immune system can detect parts of these flagella and eliminate the pathogen . Bacterial flagella are made from filaments of proteins , and some flagella are also enclosed by a sheath that is similar to the outer membrane that encloses certain bacteria . The function of this sheath is unclear , although some researchers have suggested that it might prevent the immune system from detecting the proteins in the flagellum . Now , by studying the interactions between the Hawaiian bobtail squid and a marine bacterium , Brennan et al . show that the sheath can actually alert the host that the bacteria are around . The Hawaiian bobtail squid collects bioluminescent bacteria within a so-called ‘light organ’ . This organ undergoes a number of developmental changes to house the bacteria , and the squid then uses the light from the bacteria to mask its own shadow , which helps it to avoid being detected by predators . Brennan et al . compared how wild-type bacteria and mutant bacteria that either had no flagella , or had flagella that did not rotate , interacted with young squid . Only bacteria with working flagella were able to trigger the normal development of the squid’s light organ , which suggests that the rotating flagella are releasing the signal that tells the squid that the beneficial bacteria are present . Brennan et al . demonstrated that the rotation of sheathed flagella led to the release of a molecule called lipopolysaccharide . This molecule is known to activate the immune system in animals , and it is one of the bacterial signals that the squid responds to . Moreover , when the flagella of other bacteria with sheaths—such as those that cause cholera—are rotating , there is also an increase in the release of lipopolysaccharide . However , rotation of the flagella of bacteria without sheaths has no such effect . The next challenge will be to test the importance of this release of lipopolysaccharide from rotating flagella on the outcome of bacterial diseases of humans and other animals .
The genome of an individual organism contains all the instructions needed to build and maintain that individual . Any changes to the DNA in the genome can alter the instructions that are given to cells , which can lead to cancer and other diseases . However , changes to the genome can sometimes be beneficial as they can introduce more variety into the instructions carried by different individuals , which increases their potential to adapt to changes in their environment . In plants and animals , DNA is arranged into structures called chromosomes . Generally , an individual's genome contains two copies of each chromosome; one inherited from their mother and one from their father . However , occasionally during reproduction , all the chromosomes from one of the parents are left out from the cells of the offspring in a process called ‘genome elimination’ . This makes individuals that carry only half the normal number of chromosomes , known as haploids . Sometimes the process of genome elimination is disrupted , which leads to individuals that have incomplete genomes or chromosomes that carry big rearrangements of the DNA , as if they had been shattered and put back together incorrectly . In a small plant known as Arabidopsis thaliana , genome elimination frequently happens in the offspring of two individuals that carry different versions of a gene called centromeric histone H3 ( CENH3 ) . However , it is not clear how this works , or what roles genome elimination plays in evolution and disease . Here , Tan et al . studied genome elimination by cross-breeding Arabidopsis plants that carried a mutant form of CENH3 with plants that have a normal version of the protein . The experiments found that many of the offspring were haploid . Some of the others carried an extra copy of an entire chromosome or a section of a chromosome . A third group had an extra copy of a chromosome that was missing some sections or had been rearranged . These ‘shattered’ chromosomes were always formed from chromosomes that came from the parent plant with a mutant form of CENH3 . Tan et al . also found that a protein called DNA Ligase 4 , which helps reconnect broken DNA strands , is involved in repairing the breaks in these shattered chromosomes . Some of the genetic rearrangements documented in the experiments were passed on to subsequent generations of plants , which suggests that these genomic changes can be stable enough to be inherited . The genomic rearrangements observed in the Arabidopsis plants are similar to those seen in patients with cancer and other genetic diseases . Tan et al . findings show that Arabidopsis plants provide a useful system for studying these genome rearrangements , which may inform efforts to treat these human diseases .
Over 90% of adults around the world are infected with the Epstein-Barr virus . Like other closely related viruses , such as those that cause chicken pox and cold sores , an infection lasts for the rest of the person’s life , although the virus generally remains in a latent or dormant state . However , under certain conditions the latent viruses can cause cancers to develop; in fact , it is estimated that such infections are responsible for nearly 2% of all cancer deaths worldwide . One way that healthy human cells prevent cancer is by triggering their own death in a process called apoptosis . The Epstein-Barr virus can block apoptosis , therefore making the cells more likely to become cancerous . Previous research identified one protein in the Epstein-Barr virus that promotes cancer by preventing infected cells from dying as normal . However , even in the absence of this protein , Epstein-Barr virus-infected cells remain resistant to apoptosis . This suggests that the virus has another way of blocking cell death . Price et al . have now used a technique that stresses living cells in a way that reveals which proteins prevent apoptosis to study human cells infected with the Epstein-Barr virus . This revealed that soon after infection , the virus could force the human cell to produce MCL-1 , a protein that prevents cell death . Later , the Epstein-Barr virus enlisted a second human protein called BFL-1 , which makes the infected cell further resistant to apoptosis . Price et al . discovered that a protein in the Epstein-Barr virus called EBNA3A controls the production of the MCL-1 and BFL-1 proteins . In the future , developing therapies that target these proteins may lead to new treatments for cancers caused by the Epstein-Barr virus . Such treatments would be likely to have fewer side effects for patients than traditional chemotherapies .
Since plants cannot move , they have evolved chemical defenses to help them respond to changes in their surroundings . For example , where animals run from predators , plants may produce toxins to put predators off . This approach is why plants are such a rich source of drugs , poisons , dyes and other useful substances . The chemicals plants produce are known as specialized metabolites , and they can change a lot between , and even within , plant species . The variety of specialized metabolites is a result of genetic changes and evolution over millions of years . Evolution is a slow process , yet plants are able to rapidly develop new specialized metabolites to protect them from new threats . Even different populations of the same species produce many distinct metabolites that help them survive in their surroundings . However , the factors that lead plants to produce new metabolites are not well understood , and it is not known how this affects genetic variation . To gain a better understanding of this process , Katz et al . studied 797 European variants of a common weed species called Arabidopsis thaliana , which is widely studied . The investigation found that many factors affect the range of specialized metabolites in each variant . These included local geography and environment , as well as genetics and population history ( demography ) . Katz et al . revealed a pattern of relationships between the variants that could mirror their evolutionary history as the species spread and adapted to new locations . These results highlight the complex network of factors that affect plant evolution . Rapid diversification is key to plant survival in new and changing environments and has resulted in a wide range of specialized metabolites . As such they are of interest both for studying plant evolution and for understanding their ecology . Expanding similar work to more populations and other species will broaden the scope of our ability to understand how plants adapt to their surroundings .
Throughout the development and life of an animal , many of its cells die and are removed to make space for new tissues . A group of proteins called caspases play a key role in this cell death process . Chemotherapy and radiotherapy work as cancer treatments because they damage dividing cancer cells to such an extent that caspases are turned on and kill those cells . Unfortunately the tumor occasionally grows back after the treatment , partly because caspases also help to produce signals that boost the growth of any surviving cancer cells . Pérez , Lindblad and Bergmann have now used the fruit fly Drosophila to investigate how caspases encourage tumor cells to grow and spread . The fruit flies all carried a mutation in a gene called Ras , which is often mutated in human cancers . Using a combination of genetic and biochemical experiments Pérez , Lindblad and Bergmann found that mutant Ras prevents cells with active caspases from dying . Instead , the caspases redirect their activity and help cancer cells to produce small chemicals called reactive oxygen species . These chemicals can play many different roles in cancers , but in this setting they attract immune cells to the site of the tumor . The immune cells in turn send other signals back to the cancer cells , which further activate the caspases . Overall , this self-perpetuating signaling loop between the cancer cells and the surrounding immune cells helps the tumors to grow . Future work toward developing new cancer treatments will need to work on ways of enhancing the cell-killing properties of caspases while inhibiting their ability to help tumors to grow . Further experiments will also be needed to find out exactly how the mutant Ras gene protects tumor cells from death .
Einstein once joked: “Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute , and it seems like an hour . Sit with a pretty girl for an hour , and it seems like a minute . That’s relativity . ” While it may not have helped explain the space-time continuum , his joke neatly captures how time can appear to pass at different rates . This perception depends in part on the sensory properties of the stimuli we are experiencing . Intense stimuli , such as bright and fast-moving objects , trigger stronger responses in the brain than less intense stimuli , and so we perceive them as longer lasting . But what role do we , as the experiencers , play in how we perceive time ? To find out , Liu , Yuan , Chen et al . showed volunteers pairs of movie clips , each featuring two human figures outlined by dots . In one clip , the two figures interacted socially , for example by passing an object between them . In the other , the two figures moved independently of each other . The volunteers had to decide which clip lasted longer . The volunteers generally judged clips containing social interactions to be shorter than those without such interactions , even when this was not the case . Moreover , volunteers with better social skills tended to underestimate the length of the social interaction clips to a greater extent . Previous studies have shown that people who are more social tend to have higher levels of a hormone called oxytocin in their blood . Oxytocin is sometimes referred to as the ‘love hormone’ because it promotes social behavior and bonding . Applying an oxytocin nasal spray to the volunteers who were less socially proficient caused them to perceive the social interaction clips as shorter than before . By contrast , socially proficient volunteers who used a nasal spray that blocks the effects of oxytocin perceived these clips as longer than they had done previously ( although they still judged the clips to be shorter than videos that did not show people interacting ) . The perception of time thus varies between people and may depend at least in part on personality . These results open up a new avenue for studying and manipulating how we process social situations . This could eventually benefit people who struggle with social interactions , such as those with autism spectrum disorders .
As the COVID-19 pandemic has progressed , new variants of the virus SARS-CoV-2 have emerged that are more infectious than the original form . The variants known as Alpha , Beta and Gamma have mutations in a protein on the virus’s surface that is vital for attaching to cells and infecting them . This protein , called Spike , carries out its role by binding to ACE2 , a protein on the surface of human cells . Mutations on Spike are found on the region where it binds to ACE2 . The interaction between these two proteins appears to be important to the behaviour of SARS-CoV-2 , but the impact of individual mutations in Spike is unknown . In addition , some people have different variants of ACE2 with mutations in the region that interacts with Spike , but it is not known whether this affects these people’s risk of contracting COVID-19 . To answer these questions , Barton et al . measured the precise effect of mutations in Spike and ACE2 on the strength of the interaction between the two proteins . The experiments showed that three of the five common Spike mutations in the Alpha , Beta and Gamma SARS-CoV-2 variants strengthened binding to ACE2 . The two mutations that weakened binding were only found together with other mutations that strengthened binding . This meant that the Spike proteins in all three of these SARS-CoV-2 variants bind to ACE2 more strongly than the original form . The experiments also showed that two common variants of ACE2 also increased the strength of binding to Spike . Interestingly , one of these ACE2 variants reversed the effect of a specific SARS-CoV-2 mutation , suggesting that carriers would be resistant to SARS-CoV-2 variants with this mutation . Identifying the precise effects of Spike mutations on ACE2 binding helps understand why new variants of SARS-CoV-2 spread more rapidly . This could help to identify concerning new variants before they spread widely and inform the response by health authorities . The finding that two common ACE2 variants bind more strongly to Spike suggests that people with these mutations could be more susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 .
Genes encode instructions that control our physical characteristics , known as traits . Although some traits are controlled by the activity of a single gene , most traits are influenced by the activities of multiple genes . The genes that influence a particular trait may work independently of each other . However , it is also possible for the genes to interact so that one gene may mask or amplify the effect of another gene . Although gene interactions were first described almost 100 years ago , it has been difficult to identify them and work out the direction of these interactions ( i . e . , does gene A affect gene B , or vice versa ? ) . Fischer , Sandmann et al . have now studied the interactions between the genes involved in 21 different traits of fruit fly cells . A technique called RNA interference was used to lower the expression of the genes in different combinations , which made it possible to analyze any changes in the traits that occurred when particular genes were not working properly . Fischer , Sandmann et al . took hundreds of thousands images of the cells and analyzed the changes in cell shape , cell size , cell division and other traits . Next , they developed a method to infer the directions of the interactions between individual pairs of genes from the data and then made a map of the genetic interactions for the traits . This map was able to reconstruct the known order of activity of genes during cell division and other cell processes . Furthermore , it revealed previously unknown interactions between genes . For example , genes involved in the Ras signaling pathway—which promotes cell growth and is frequently mutated in human tumors—interacted with genes that encode a group of proteins called the SWI/SNF complex . This complex alters how DNA is packaged in cells to control the expression of genes , and these gene interactions may play an important role in the control of cell growth by Ras signaling . The approach developed by Fischer , Sandmann et al . can shed light on the interactions between genes that produce complex traits of cells . In future , this approach might be helpful to find out which genetic differences between individuals alter the effectiveness of drug treatments , and the impact of using combinations of drugs to treat diseases .
Flowers are highly specialized structures that many plants use to reproduce . Male organs called stamens on the flowers make pollen that can be transferred – usually by insect carriers or the wind – to a female structure called the stigma on another plant . However , since many flowers contain both male and female organs , it is also possible for the pollen to land on the stigma of the same flower , leading to a process called “self-fertilization” . Many plants have developed mechanisms that prevent self-fertilization . For example , primroses produce two different types of flowers that arrange their stamens and stigmas differently . The stigma sits on the top of a stalk known as the style . Some primroses produce flowers with short stamens and a long style , resulting in the stigma being located high up in the flower ( “pin” flowers ) , while others produce flowers with a short style and long stamens ( “thrum” flowers ) . Primrose pollen is carried by insects and the different lengths of the styles and stamens make it more likely that pollen from a pin flower will land on the stigma of a thrum flower instead of a pin flower ( and vice versa ) . Although primrose flowers have fascinated botanists for centuries , the genes responsible for making the two types of flower had not been identified . Genetic studies indicated that different genes control the length of the stamens and style . However , these genes appear to be very close to each other on primrose DNA , which made it difficult to study them individually . Huu et al . identified a gene called CYP734A50 that is responsible for the difference in style length in the flowers of a primrose called Primula veris . The gene is only present in the plants that have thrum flowers across a wide range of primrose species and genetic mutations that inactivate the gene in these plants result in flowers with longer styles . CYP734A50 encodes an enzyme that breaks down plant hormones called brassinosteroids , which normally promote growth . Treating thrum flowers with brassinosteroids increased the length of the styles . Future challenges are to identify the other genes that are responsible for producing pin and thrum flowers and to understand how this group of genes evolved .
Puberty and fertility are necessary for survival of the species . An evolutionarily ancient region of the brain called the hypothalamus regulates these processes . The hypothalamus releases a chemical messenger called gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( or GnRH for short ) , which is then transported from the brain to the pituitary gland . GnRH activates the pituitary gland , which in turn releases reproductive hormones that control ovulation in females and sperm production in males . For this process to work correctly in females , the hypothalamus must release GnRH in appropriately timed pulses and produce one massive release , or “surge” , of GnRH to trigger ovulation . Two populations of neurons within the hypothalamus produce a peptide molecule called Kisspeptin and drive the activity and subsequent release of GnRH . One population resides in an area called the arcuate nucleus and the other in the preoptic nucleus . Recent findings suggest that the arcuate nucleus is the “pulse generator” responsible for triggering the rhythmic release of GnRH by the hypothalamus , whereas the preoptic nucleus induces the surge of GnRH . However , how these brain regions do this remains unclear . Using a technique called optogenetics , Qiu , Nestor et al . explored whether kisspeptin-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus are able to communicate with each other to drive pulses of GnRH release . The idea was to selectively activate a subset of kisspeptin neurons in mice and determine whether this would activate the remaining neurons at the same time . Qiu , Nestor et al . introduced a light-sensitive protein into the kisspeptin-producing neurons on one side of the arcuate nucleus , and then used light to activate those neurons . As predicted , this caused kisspeptin neurons throughout the arcuate nucleus to coordinate their activity . In addition to their namesake peptide , kisspeptin-producing neurons also make the neurotransmitter glutamate , the excitatory peptide neurokinin B , and the inhibitory peptide dynorphin . Light-induced stimulation of the arcuate nucleus caused its kisspeptin neurons to also release neurokinin B and dynorphin , which synchronized the firing of the kisspeptin neurons . The hypothalamus then translates this coordinated activity into pulses of GnRH release . The light-induced stimulation also triggered the release of glutamate , which caused kisspeptin neurons within the preoptic nucleus to fire in bursts . This in turn robustly excited the GnRH neurons , giving rise to the surge of GnRH . These findings show that peptide and classical neurotransmitters collaborate to control GnRH neuron activity and , consequently , fertility . The results obtained by Qiu , Nestor et al . can be used to further explore kisspeptin-GnRH neuronal circuits , and to obtain insights into the role of neuronal peptide signaling in healthy as well as diseased states .
The human body is made up of about 200 different types of cell , all of which are descended from a single fertilised egg . As an embryo develops , its cells divide and specialise into distinct lineages . Cells in each lineage go on to form a restricted number of cell types that are required to make a specific tissue . As such , during early development , cells switch from being ‘pluripotent’ , with the potential to become the many different cell types , to committing to one particular cell lineage . Controlling this process involves a huge number of signalling proteins and pathways . One such protein is bone morphogenetic protein , or BMP for short , which has a number of different roles in embryo development: for example , it stops pluripotent cells turning into nerve tissue , and it also encourages embryonic stem cells to contribute to the ‘mesoderm’ of the early embryo ( which goes on to form the muscles , connective tissues and some blood cells ) . How these two actions are linked , and whether they depend on similar signalling pathways , was unknown . BMP is also known to trigger the production of proteins known as ‘Id factors’—which stands for ‘inhibitor of differentiation’ . Now , Malaguti et al . have investigated the roles of BMP and Id factors in controlling mouse embryo development and found , somewhat surprisingly , that these proteins needed help from a third protein to stop pluripotent cells turning into nerve tissue . This third protein , which is called E-Cadherin , normally helps cells to adhere to other cells . Malaguti et al . showed that losing this protein encourages cells to become either nerve or mesoderm tissues , and that a drop in E-Cadherin levels must occur before nerve tissue can form . Malaguti et al . also showed that encouraging cells to become part of the mesoderm requires BMP to activate another pathway , which does not require E-Cadherin . The two effects of BMP can be uncoupled by adjusting the levels of this protein . At low concentrations , BMP can keep cells pluripotent , but it cannot encourage cells to commit to a mesoderm fate . At higher doses , however , BMP ‘primes’ cells to respond to the signals that trigger their development into mesoderm tissue . The findings of Malaguti et al . suggest that manipulating both E-Cadherin and BMP signalling could improve our ability to generate useful cell types , such as neurons , from stem cells grown in laboratory cultures .
Among the countless components of an animal cell , microtubules perform many important roles . These hollow filaments support the cell’s shape and help to transport different materials around within it . They also form a hair-like projection on the cell surface called the primary cilium , which helps the cell sense its environment . Most microtubules in an animal cell are organized by a structure called the centrosome , which has two smaller cylindrical structures called centrioles at its core . In cells that are not dividing , these two centrioles are different in age . The older of the two centrioles was assembled at least two cell divisions ago and is commonly called the “mother” centriole . The younger one , which was assembled the previous time the cell divided , is called the “daughter” centriole . Most activities at the centrosome are controlled by the mother centriole . For example , the mother centriole contains protein complexes called appendages that allow it to dock at the cell surface and build the cilium . The mother centriole also contains a complex of proteins called the pericentriolar material , which helps it assemble microtubules and anchor them in place . In contrast , the daughter centriole lacks appendages , does not form a cilium , has less pericentriolar material and so assembles fewer microtubules . Why the daughter centriole cannot recruit these protein complexes remains a mystery . One possibly important difference between mother and daughter centrioles is that daughter centrioles in non-dividing cells have much higher levels of a protein called Cep120 . Now , Betleja et al . have studied the role of this protein in more detail . Experiments with mouse and human cells show that Cep120 plays an important inhibitory role at the daughter centriole . When the production of Cep120 was blocked , more pericentriolar material associated with the daughter centriole , and more microtubules were assembled by the centrosome . This interfered with the movement of other proteins to the centrosome , which ultimately disrupted both the centrosome’s ability to assemble cilia and the cell’s ability to sense its environment . The findings of Betleja et al . show that a Cep120-dependent mechanism actively regulates the centrosome’s function in non-dividing cells . These experiments uncover a potentially new type of molecular defect that may be responsible for diseases caused by faulty cilia , such as Joubert Syndrome and Jeune Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy . The next challenge will be to understand how Cep120 inhibits the levels of pericentriolar material only at the daughter centriole but not the mother centriole .
A structure at the back of the eye known as the retina is essential for vision . When light hits the retina , cells called neurons produce electrical signals that lead to the release of chemicals known as neurotransmitters . When these chemicals reach a neighboring neuron , a corresponding electrical signal is produced in this cell . In this way , information about what we can see is ultimately transmitted to the brain . The retina also contains cells that are not neurons , such as Müller glial cells . These cells span the thickness of the retina , and appear well placed to interact with all of the different types of neuron in the retina . Other types of glial cells help the neural circuits in the brain to develop , but it is not clear whether Müller cells perform the same role in the developing retina . Newborn mice do not open their eyes until around two weeks after they are born , during which time their retina continues to develop . The retinal neurons are already active throughout this period , and spontaneously generate periodic bursts of electrical activity that spreads across the developing retina in waves . Now , Rosa , Bos et al . show that in newborn mice , these waves also trigger brief , or ‘transient’ , increases in the concentration of calcium ions inside Müller cells . Exactly how the Müller cells respond depends on which neurotransmitters are released during waves . A few days before the mice open their eyes , the number of calcium transients in Müller cells decreases sharply . At the same time , neurons continue to spontaneously release waves of one particular neurotransmitter called glutamate . Rosa , Bos et al . used a sensor that showed where glutamate is found in the developing retina . This revealed that the decrease in calcium transients as the retina matures is due to less glutamate reaching the Müller cells . These findings reveal that Müller cells are involved in the spontaneous electrical activity seen in the retina during a critical period of retinal development . The next challenge is to determine how this neuronal-glial cell signaling helps the retina to mature .
Our bodies—especially our skin , our saliva , the lining of our mouth and our gastrointestinal tract—are home to a diverse collection of bacteria and other microorganisms called the microbiome . While the roles played by many of these microorganisms have yet to be identified , it is known that they contribute to the health and wellbeing of their host by metabolizing indigestible compounds , producing essential vitamins , and preventing the growth of harmful bacteria . They are important for nutrient and carbon cycling in the environment . The advent of advanced sequencing techniques has made it feasible to study the composition of this microbial community , and to monitor how it changes over time or how it responds to events such as antibiotic treatment . Sequencing studies have been used to highlight the significant differences between microbial communities found in different parts of the body , and to follow the evolution of the gut microbiome from birth . Most of these studies have focused on live animals , so little is known about what happens to the microbiome after its host dies . In particular , it is not known if the changes that occur after death are similar for all individuals . Moreover , the decomposing animal supplies nutrients and carbon to the surrounding ecosystem , but its influence on the microbial community of its immediate environment is not well understood . Now Metcalf et al . have used high-throughput sequencing to study the bacteria and other microorganisms ( such as nematodes and fungi ) in dead and decomposing mice , and also in the soil beneath them , over the course of 48 days . The changes were significant and also consistent across the corpses , with the microbial communities in the corpses influencing those in the soil , and vice versa . Metcalf et al . also showed that these measurements could be used to estimate the postmortem interval ( the time since death ) to within approximately 3 days , which suggests that the work could have applications in forensic science .
Any animal with a body that is symmetric about an imaginary line that runs from its head to its tail is known as a bilaterian . Humans and most animals are bilateral , whereas jellyfish and starfish are not . Bilateral symmetry can take many forms—as demonstrated by the differences between flies , frogs and humans—but all bilaterians express many of the same genes during development . One of these groups of genes is known as the Hox family . The expression of specific Hox genes at specific times instructs cells in the developing embryo to adopt different fates according to their position along the anterior–posterior ( head to tail ) axis . The patterning function of Hox genes relies on the presence of two additional cofactors that belong to the so-called TALE family . Although both Hox and TALE proteins were present early on during animal evolution , it is unclear how and when the interactions between them first began to generate symmetrical body plans . Now , Hudry et al . have provided insights into the origin of the Hox-TALE network by analysing the expression and molecular properties of Hox and TALE proteins from various multicellular and unicellular organisms . These experiments revealed that Hox and TALE proteins of the sea anemone Nematostella , which belongs to a group of animals called cnidarians that have radial rather than bilateral symmetry , interact with one another in a similar manner to the interactions seen in bilaterians . Hudry et al . then showed that two Nematostella Hox genes were able to substitute for their bilaterian equivalents in fruit flies , and that a Nematostella TALE gene was able to take over neuronal functions of its equivalent in Xenopus frogs . This striking conservation of function between species suggests that Hox and TALE genes were already working together in the common ancestor of all bilaterian and cnidarian animals . By contrast , TALE members from a unicellular amoeba were unable to interact with Hox proteins , suggesting that Hox–TALE interactions first emerged in multicellular animals . In addition to increasing our knowledge of highly conserved Hox signalling , these data provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that gave rise to the symmetrical body plan that has been adopted , and adapted , by the majority of animals since .
Forgetting is a common experience in our everyday life . Yet much remains unknown about how we remember , and about why our memories sometimes fail us . The brain contains 80 to 100 billion nerve cells or neurons , which communicate with one another at junctions called synapses . At a synapse , one neuron releases a chemical message , which must diffuse across a small gap , and then activate proteins called receptors on another neuron . If the first neuron activates the second repeatedly , the second cell responds by inserting additional receptors into its membrane at the synapse . This strengthens the connection between the two neurons . Strengthening of synapses is thought to be one of the key mechanisms underlying learning . To confirm this , it would be helpful to be able to monitor the movement and position of individual receptors at synapses . However , the space between the two nerve cells at at synapse , called the synaptic cleft , is no more than 40 nanometers wide . This is about 25 times thinner than a human hair , and too small to be seen with light microscopy . Electron microscopy can visualize synapses , but does not work in living tissue . The only other option is to attach a fluorescent label – either a dye or a man-made crystal called a quantum dot – to a protein found in synapses and monitor the resulting fluorescence . Though the probe must be small enough to pass through the synaptic cleft to do this . Using fluorescence microscopy , researchers have examined the distribution in synapses of proteins called AMPA receptors , which have a key role in memory . Multiple studies have shown groups of AMPA receptors gathered outside synapses . This has led to the suggestion that during learning , AMPA receptors wait outside the synapse until a space becomes available within the synapse’s membrane . However , this has yet to be confirmed directly , in part because conventional fluorescent dyes and quantum dots are too bulky to enter synaptic clefts when bound to a receptor . Lee et al . have now developed a quantum dot that is only 10 nanometers wide and therefore small enough to enter the synaptic cleft with an AMPA receptor attached . These small quantum dots were then used to label AMPA receptors in neurons collected from rats and then grown in a petri dish , which provided a completely new view of synapses . The images show that the majority of AMPA receptors in neurons circulate within confined domains – a little like holding pens – inside the synapse , rather than waiting outside as previously assumed . Labeling the receptors with smaller 4-nanometer-wide fluorescent tags produces a similar picture . Further work is still need to determine how AMPA receptors get into the synapse and contribute to new memories .
Neurons in the brain require a continuous supply of oxygen for normal activity . If the level of oxygen in the brain decreases – for example when a blood vessel becomes blocked – neurons begin to die , and permanent brain damage can result . A shortage of oxygen first causes sodium ion channels within the surface membrane of the neurons to open . Sodium ions then flow into the cells through these open channels to trigger a cascade of events inside the cells that ultimately results in their death . Plant et al . now reveal how oxygen deficiency , otherwise known as hypoxia , rapidly increases the flow of sodium ions into brain cells . By inducing hypoxia in neurons from the rat brain , Plant et al . show that a lack of oxygen causes the SUMOylation – a process whereby a series of enzymes work together to attach a Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier ( or SUMO ) protein – of specific sodium ion channels in under a minute . The channels linked to the SUMO protein , a subtype called NaV1 . 2 , open more readily than unmodified channels , allowing more sodium ions to enter the neurons . Plant et al . study granule cells of the cerebellum , the most numerous type of neuron in the human brain . Further investigation is required to determine if SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels underlies the response of other neurons to hypoxia as well . It also remains to be discovered whether molecules that block the SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels , or that prevent the flow of sodium ions through these channels , could reduce the number of brain cells that die in low-oxygen conditions such as strokes .
Mosquitoes cannot control their body temperature , so their survival and performance depend on the temperature where they live . As a result , outside temperatures can also affect the spread of diseases transmitted by mosquitoes . This has left scientists wondering how climate change may affect the spread of mosquito-borne diseases . Predicting the effects of climate change on such diseases is tricky , because many interacting factors , including temperatures and rainfall , affect mosquito populations . Also , rising temperatures do not always have a positive effect on mosquitoes – they may help mosquitoes initially , but it can get too warm even for these animals . Climate change could affect the Ross River virus , the most common mosquito-borne disease in Australia . The virus infects 2 , 000 to 9 , 000 people each year and can cause long-term joint pain and disability . Currently , the virus spreads year-round in tropical , northern Australia and seasonally in temperate , southern Australia . Large outbreaks have occurred outside of Australia , and scientists are worried it could spread worldwide . Now , Shocket et al . have built a model that predicts how the spread of Ross River virus changes with temperature . Shocket et al . used data from laboratory experiments that measured mosquito and virus performance across a broad range of temperatures . The experiments showed that ~26°C ( 80°F ) is the optimal temperature for mosquitoes to spread the Ross River virus . Temperatures below 17°C ( 63°F ) and above 32°C ( 89°F ) hamper the spread of the virus . These temperature ranges match the current disease patterns in Australia where human cases peak in March . This is two months after the country’s average temperature reaches the optimal level and about how long it takes mosquito populations to grow , infect people , and for symptoms to develop . Because northern Australia is already near the optimal temperature for mosquitos to spread the Ross River virus , any climate warming should decrease transmission there . But warming temperatures could increase the disease’s transmission in the southern part of the country , where most people live . The model Shocket et al . created may help the Australian government and mosquito control agencies better plan for the future .
Behaviors from reading to reaching for objects require large numbers of neurons to fire at the same time . Electrodes on the surface of the scalp , or within the brain itself , can detect this coordinated activity in the form of brain waves , or oscillations . Different regions of the brain produce oscillations with different frequencies . Areas that control movement , known collectively as the motor system , generate oscillations with a frequency of 25 to 40 cycles per second , called beta oscillations . These emerge when individuals are paying attention , processing cues to decide where to move , or waiting to move . Patients with Parkinson’s disease – who suffer from tremors , slowed movements , and have trouble initiating movements – show increased beta oscillations when their symptoms are worst compared to when their symptoms are well controlled . Understanding how beta oscillations affect behavior might therefore reveal how exaggerated beta oscillations contribute to symptoms of Parkinson’s disease . However , existing tools for activating or silencing neurons do not allow us to manipulate large groups of neurons with fine enough control to study oscillations precisely . Khanna and Carmena have now solved this problem by training rhesus macaque monkeys to mentally control their own brain waves . The monkeys , which had electrodes implanted in their brains , learned to increase or decrease their beta oscillations on demand . After achieving the correct level of beta oscillations , the monkeys had to reach towards a target with their arm in order to obtain a reward . Khanna and Carmena found that the monkeys took longer to initiate arm reaches when they had higher levels of beta oscillations . Further , when the monkeys increased their beta oscillations , populations of neurons exhibited patterns of activity that looked very different to the patterns occurring at the start of movement . This suggests that when neurons generate beta oscillations , the motor system is pausing at the expense of being ready to quickly start moving . This finding meshes well with previous evidence since it is sensible to pause the motor system when paying close attention to a task , deciding where to move , and while waiting . Too much pausing may slow down movements and it may become difficult to initiate them , potentially explaining the link between worsened symptoms and higher beta oscillations seen in Parkinson’s disease . Overall , the findings of Khanna and Carmena indicate that beta oscillations reflect brain states in which individuals are pausing , and provide a new tool for studying how oscillations relate to behavior .
Psoriasis is an inflammatory disorder that causes red , flaky patches of skin . The disease affects around 2% of the world’s population , and is most common in people of northern European descent . TNF is one of the key proteins in the development of psoriasis and drugs that inhibit TNF have been very successful in the treatment of this disease . However , these drugs are expensive and for unknown reasons at least 10% of patients do not respond to them . Attempts to develop better drugs for psoriasis would be assisted by an improved understanding of this disease in terms of the genes and proteins involved . Etemadi et al . set out to obtain a more detailed molecular understanding of this disease by developing new mouse models of the condition . Mice were genetically engineered such that a key gene was deleted specifically from the skin cells that form the main barrier to the environment . These mice demonstrated that defects in skin cells called keratinocytes , rather than defects in the immune response , could lead to a psoriasis-like disease . Etemadi et al . also showed that the skin cells with this genetic defect die in the presence of TNF and this cell death in mice caused a rapidly-appearing form of psoriasis . However , in the absence of TNF the mice still developed psoriasis , albeit more slowly . In this case , the condition was due to an excessive activation of a protein called NF-κB , which is known to play a role in maintaining balance in the immune system and in psoriasis . These findings reveal how keratinocytes , cell death and inflammation can directly contribute to psoriasis-like conditions in mice . The next challenge will be to determine whether these findings can be used to help patients with this condition .
Neurons propagate electrical signals from one cell to the next using small molecules called neurotransmitters . These molecules are held inside small compartments called synaptic vesicles . Once a neuron receives an electrical stimulus , the membranes that enclose the synaptic vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane that encloses the neuron . This releases the neurotransmitters , which then trigger an electrical signal in the neighboring cell . Once the neurotransmitters are released , the vesicle membrane is rapidly reinternalized from the plasma membrane in a process called endocytosis and then recycled , ready for the next round of signal transmission . The process of synaptic vesicle membrane endocytosis and recycling has been studied extensively , and several different mechanisms by which it occurs have been identified . The best understood relies on a protein called clathrin , and is thought to be essential for nervous system function . Recently , however , a mechanism of vesicle membrane endocytosis that does not involve clathrin was identified . This mechanism , called bulk endocytosis , involves reinternalizing large regions of the cell plasma membrane to generate large compartments called vacuoles , from which new synaptic vesicles eventually form . This mechanism has been observed when neurons fire at high frequency . The cellular processes underlying bulk endocytosis are not well understood , although several studies suggest proteins called dynamins are important . Wu et al . simulated the conditions a cell experiences during high levels of activity in neurons that lacked the two major dynamins present at the synapses between neurons—dynamin 1 and dynamin 3 . In these neurons , robust bulk endocytosis occurred , suggesting that these two major neuronal dynamins do not play a role in this process . Furthermore , formation of vesicles from the vacuoles generated by bulk endocytosis appeared to be clathrin-independent . These findings point to the occurrence of a pathway of synaptic vesicle recycling that bypasses the need for dynamin 1 and 3 as well as for clathrin . To reconcile these results with previously published work , Wu et al . propose that dynamins may only be required for processes that also require clathrin . But how are vesicles recycled during bulk endocytosis if dynamins are not involved ? There are currently few leads to base alternative mechanisms on . Further work is required to unravel this mystery , and to provide insights into how clathrin-dependent and independent recycling processes are linked during high neuronal activity .
Several diseases , including asthma , arthritis , some skin conditions , and cancer , are treated with medications called glucocorticoids , which are synthetic versions of human hormones . These drugs are also used to treat people with a condition call adrenal insufficiency who do not produce enough of an important hormone called cortisol . Use of glucocorticoids is very common , the proportion of people in a given country taking them can range from 0 . 5% to 21% of the population depending on the duration of the treatment . But , like any medication , glucocorticoids have both benefits and risks: people who take glucocorticoids for a long time have an increased risk of diabetes , obesity , cardiovascular disease , and death . Because of the risks associated with taking glucocorticoids , it is very important for physicians to tailor the dose to each patient’s needs . Doing this can be tricky , because the levels of glucocorticoids in a patient’s blood are not a good indicator of the medication’s activity in the body . A test that can accurately measure the glucocorticoid activity could help physicians personalize treatment and reduce harmful side effects . As a first step towards developing such a test , Chantzichristos et al . identified a potential way to measure glucocorticoid activity in patient’s blood . In the experiments , blood samples were collected from ten patients with adrenal insufficiency both when they were on no medication , and when they were taking a glucocorticoid to replace their missing hormones . Next , the blood samples were analyzed to determine which genes were turned on and off in each patient with and without the medication . They also compared small molecules in the blood called metabolites and tiny pieces of genetic material called microRNAs that turn genes on and off . The experiments revealed networks of genes , metabolites , and microRNAs that are associated with glucocorticoid activity , and one microRNA called miR-122-5p stood out as a potential way to measure glucocorticoid activity . To verify this microRNA’s usefulness , Chantzichristos et al . looked at levels of miR-122-5p in people participating in three other studies and confirmed that it was a good indicator of the glucocorticoid activity . More research is needed to confirm Chantzichristos et al . ’s findings and to develop a test that can be used by physicians to measure glucocorticoid activity . The microRNA identified , miR-122-5p , has been previously linked to diabetes , so studying it further may also help scientists understand how taking glucocorticoids may increase the risk of developing diabetes and related diseases .
Cells in all organisms must constantly measure the amount of nutrients available to them in order to be healthy and grow properly . For example , cells use a complex sensing system to measure how many amino acids – the building blocks of proteins – are available to them . One enzyme called mTOR alerts the cell to amino acid levels . When amino acids are available , mTOR springs into action and turns on the production of proteins in the cell . However , when amino acids are scarce , mTOR turns off , which slows down protein production and causes the cell to begin scavenging amino acids by digesting parts of itself . Studies of mTOR have shown that the protein cannot turn on until it visits the surface of small sacks in the cell called lysosomes . These are the major sites within cell where proteins and other molecules are broken down . Scientists know how mTOR gets to the lysosomes , but not how quickly the process occurs . Now , Manifava , Smith et al . have used microscopes to record live video of the mTOR enzyme as it interacts with amino acids revealing the whole process takes place in just a few minutes . In the experiments , a fluorescent tag was added to part of mTOR to make the protein visible under a microscope . The video showed that , in human cells supplied with amino acids , mTOR reaches the lysosomes within 2 minutes of the amino acids becoming available . Then , within 3-4 minutes the mTOR turns on and leaves the lysosome . Even though the mTOR has left the lysosome , it somehow remembers that amino acids are available and stays active . The experiments show that mTOR’s brief interaction with the lysosome switches it on and keeps it on even after mTOR leaves . Future studies will be needed to determine exactly how mTOR remembers its interaction with the lysosome and stays active afterwards .
Immune cells called dendritic cells play a crucial role in defending the body against tumor cells and invading viruses . The dendritic cells take up molecules called antigens from these threats and then display them on their surface . This enables the antigens to be identified by other immune cells that are capable of killing the viruses and the tumor cells . The dendritic cells recognize the antigens with the help of receptor proteins called C-type lectin receptors ( CLRs ) . These receptors can bind to sugar molecules that are naturally found on many antigens . For example , a C-type lectin receptor called MGL1 can bind to sugars known as LewisX and Lewisa on tumor and virus proteins . However , it is not clear how important these receptors are in triggering immune responses . An antigen called Ovalbumin – which is found in chicken egg white – can trigger immune responses in mammals and so researchers often use it to study the immune system . Although this antigen has several sugar molecules attached to it , quite a large amount of Ovalbumin is needed to trigger strong immune responses . Now , Streng-Ouwehand et al . examine whether attaching LewisX to Ovalbumin can results in stronger immune responses in mice . The experiments show that injecting mice with Ovalbumin-LewisX triggers a much stronger immune response than normal Ovalbumin does . This enhanced response was not observed in mice that lacked the MGL1 receptor , which suggests that this receptor is involved in detecting Ovalbumin-LewisX . Furthermore , the dendritic cells store the altered Ovalbumin for longer than they store normal Ovalbumin , which gives the cells more time to present the altered Ovalbumin to other immune cells . Vaccines and some other therapies help to boost immune responses to viruses and tumors by exposing the body to antigens . However , these therapies often use antigens that don’t have sugar molecules attached to them , or are missing the sugar molecules they would normally have . Streng-Ouwehand et al . ’s findings suggest that adding specific sugars to antigens in immune therapies might help to make these therapies more effective .
Bacterial cells communicate with each other by using chemical signals . The signals allow cells living in a group to coordinate their behaviors . This cooperation can help all the cells in the group , yet scientists are puzzled about how it could evolve and persist in a population . This is because individual bacteria that essentially cheat and benefit from the cooperation of the rest of the group without contributing their fair share would have a fitness advantage . Now , Majerczyk et al . show that a bacterium called Burkholderia thailandensis , which is commonly found in soil , poisons neighboring freeloaders to prevent such cheating . In the experiments , bacteria with mutations that allow them to ignore the chemical signals that trigger cooperation have an advantage over cooperative bacteria when the two types of bacteria are grown together in a liquid . However , the uncooperative mutants lose their advantage when they are grown on a surface where the cooperative bacteria touch them . To understand why , Majerczyk et al . examined which genes were active in both types of cells in these situations . These experiments showed that chemical signals released by the cooperative bacteria cause them to produce both toxins and proteins that protect against these toxins . This allows the cooperative cells to poison cheaters that they come in contact with , while suffering no ill effects themselves . This allows the cooperative bacteria , via the signaling chemicals , to police cheats and reward only other cooperative bacteria . The next step will be to determine if other types of bacteria also use this policing strategy and to identify more pairs of genes that contribute to protecting the benefits of cooperation .
When memories are stored , or mental tasks performed , different parts of the brain need to communicate with each other to process and extract information from the environment . For example , the communication between two brain areas called the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex is essential for memory and attention . However , it is still unclear how these interactions are established when the brain develops . Now , by looking at how the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex ‘work’ together in newborn mouse pups , Ahlbeck et al . hope to understand how these brain areas start to connect . In particular , the groups of neurons that kick start the development of the circuits required for information processing need to be identified . Recording the brains of the pups revealed that electrical activity in a particular sub-division of the hippocampus activated neurons in the prefrontal cortex . In fact , a specific population of neurons in this area was needed for the circuits in the prefrontal cortex to mature . In further experiments , the neurons from this population in the hippocampus were manipulated so they could be artificially activated in the brain using light . When stimulated , these neurons generated electrical activity , which was then relayed through the neurons all the way to the prefrontal cortex . There , this signal triggered local neuronal circuits . Thanks to this activation , these circuits could ‘wire’ together , and start establishing the connections necessary for mental tasks or memory in adulthood . The brain of the mouse pups used by Ahlbeck et al . was approximately in the same developmental state as the brain of human fetuses in the second or third trimester of pregnancy . These findings may therefore inform on how the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex start connecting in humans . Problems in the way brain areas interact during early development could be partly responsible for certain neurodevelopmental disorders and mental illnesses , such as schizophrenia . Understanding these processes at the cellular level may therefore be the first step towards finding potential targets for treatment .
Genes are sections of DNA that encode the instructions to make proteins . When a gene is switched on , the section of DNA is copied to make molecules of messenger ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) in a process called transcription . These messenger RNAs are then used as templates for protein production . In animals , plants and other eukaryotic organisms , an enzyme called RNA polymerase II is responsible for making messenger RNA molecules during transcription . This enzyme is made up of several proteins , the largest of which contains a long tail , called the carboxy-terminal domain . This domain is crucial for transcription because it serves as a landing platform for other enzymes that help to make the RNA molecules . The carboxy-terminal domain contains multiple repeats of a string of seven amino acids ( the building blocks of proteins ) . Normally , each repeat contains three amino acids called serines . However , in humans and other mammals , one of these serines is often substituted with another amino acid called lysine instead . This lysine ( referred to as Lysine-7 ) was known to be modified by the addition of a chemical group called an 'acetyl' tag , but it was not clear how this tag affected transcription . Dias , Rito , Torlai Triglia et al . carried out an in-depth study into how Lysine-7 is modified in mouse cells , and what effects these modifications have on transcription . The experiments show that Lysine-7 can also be modified by the addition of a different chemical group , called a 'methyl' tag . This new modification is also found in flies , worms and human cells , which suggests that it is generally important for transcription . Next , Dias , Rito , Torlai Triglia et al . found that in mouse stem cells , methyl tags are added to Lysine-7 during the earliest steps of transcription , before the acetyl tags are added . Further experiments show that a balance between the addition of methyl tags and acetyl tags to Lysine-7 fine-tunes the activity of RNA polymerase II . These findings add to our understanding of how cells control the activity of RNA polymerase II at different genes . Future challenges are to find out which enzymes are responsible for adding and removing these chemical tags , and how the balance between the methyl and acetyl modifications is controlled .
When muscles are damaged , they can repair themselves to some extent by making new muscle cells . These develop from groups of cells called satellite cells , which are found near the surface of muscle fibers . Once the muscle is injured , the satellite cells are activated and can divide to form two cells with different properties . One remains a satellite cell , while the other forms a ‘myoblast’ that eventually fuses into a mature muscle fiber . Under normal conditions the satellite cells remain in a dormant state and do not divide , but it is not clear how they maintain this dormant state . To create a protein , the gene that encodes it is first ‘transcribed’ to produce a molecule called mRNA , which is then used as a template to build the protein . A protein called Tristetraprolin ( TTP ) can bind to mRNA molecules and cause them to break down or decay , and so TTP can prevent the mRNA from being used to make a protein . Hausburg , Doles et al . analyzed satellite cells from uninjured muscle and compared them with those from injured tissue . This revealed that when injured , the satellite cells reduced the abundance of several mRNAs , including TTP . Further investigation found that in satellite cells from uninjured tissue , TTP causes the decay of mRNA molecules that are used to produce a protein called MyoD . As MyoD helps the satellite cells to specialize , this decay therefore prevents the formation of myoblasts and keeps the satellite cells in a dormant state . In contrast , damage to the muscle tissue activates a signaling pathway that ultimately inactivates TTP . This enables more of the MyoD protein to be made and the myoblast population to expand . When Hausburg , Doles et al . experimentally reduced the levels of TTP inside satellite cells , the cells developed into myoblasts even when the tissue was uninjured . Thus , TTP is an important regulator that allows satellite cells to remain in a dormant state . In dormant adult stem cells , regulation of protein availability by RNA binding proteins , such as TTP , may co-ordinate rapid changes in metabolic state to promptly repair injured tissue . A major challenge will be to identify the group of proteins involved and determine the precise mechanisms involved in regulating their availability .
Inflammation is an immune response that helps the body to repair damaged tissues and defend itself against bacteria and other harmful microbes . Immune cells called macrophages stimulate inflammation when they detect bacteria and other microbes . However , the strength of the inflammatory response is tightly controlled to prevent too much inflammation when it is not necessary . There is evidence that an inability to control the activity of macrophages can lead to excessive inflammation that can in itself cause injury . Inflammatory bowel diseases , including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis , occur when the intestine becomes inflamed in response to the bacteria that normally live there . Most patients with these diseases first present symptoms as young adults , but in rare cases the symptoms appear during infancy . Some patients who develop symptoms early in life carry a mutation in a gene encoding IL10R , a receptor protein that normally inhibits the ability of macrophages to cause inflammation . However , it was not known exactly when the inflammation begins in infants . Mice are often used in research as models of human health and disease . Redhu et al . investigated the role of IL10R in the intestines of infant mice . These experiments showed that the intestines of mutant mice that lacked the IL10R protein became inflamed as they were weaned from breast milk to a solid diet . This inflammation was accompanied by a greater increase in the number of actively recruited macrophages in the intestine of mutant mice compared to normal mice . Further experiments revealed that macrophages in the mutant mice activate many genes involved in inflammation . The transition from breast milk to a solid diet is accompanied by large increases in intestinal bacteria . Treating the mice with antibiotics decreased the number of bacteria in the intestines and reduced the level of inflammation , as did treating the mice with a compound that killed macrophages . The findings of Redhu et al . suggest that IL10R prevents macrophages from causing inflammation when infant mice are weaned . This , in turn , suggests that treatments that modify intestinal macrophages , as well as bacteria , could help infants that have , or are at risk of developing inflammatory bowel disease . In the longer-term , these findings might also aid the development of new treatments for older patients with inflammatory bowel diseases .
In the biological world , a process known as RNA interference helps cells to switch genes on and off and to defend themselves against harmful genetic material . This mechanism works by deactivating RNA sequences , the molecular templates cells can use to create proteins . Overall , RNA interference relies on the cell creating small RNA molecules that can target and inhibit the harmful RNA sequences that need to be silenced . More precisely , in round worms such as Caenorhabditis elegans , RNA interference happens in two steps . First , primary small RNAs identify the target sequences , which are then combatted by newly synthetised , secondary small RNAs . A number of proteins are also involved in both steps of the process . RNA interference is particularly important to preserve fertility , guarding sex cells against ‘rogue’ segments of genetic information that could be passed on to the next generation . In future sex cells , the proteins involved in RNA interference cluster together , forming a structure called a germ granule . Yet , little is known about the roles and identity of these proteins . To fill this knowledge gap , Manage et al . focused on the second stage of the RNA interference pathway in the germ granules of C . elegans , examining the molecules that physically interact with a key protein . This work revealed a new protein called SIMR-1 . Looking into the role of SIMR-1 showed that the protein is required to amplify secondary small RNAs , but not to identify target sequences . However , it only promotes the creation of secondary small RNAs if a specific subtype of primary small RNAs have recognized the target RNAs for silencing . Further experiments also showed that within the germ granule , SIMR-1 is present in a separate substructure different from any compartment previously identified . This suggests that each substep of the RNA interference process takes place at a different location in the granule . In both C . elegans and humans , disruptions in the RNA interference pathway can lead to conditions such as cancer or infertility . Dissecting the roles of the proteins involved in this process in roundworms may help to better grasp how this process unfolds in mammals , and how it could be corrected in the case of disease .
Ever wonder how you keep your balance ? This is something that we learn to do as toddlers , and it involves the coordinated effort of various muscles in the body . An area at the base of the brain called the cerebellum controls this effort , and synchronizes our muscles by sending messages in the form of electrical signals along cells called Purkinje neurons . These signals consist of steady ‘tonic’ activity or short ‘bursts’ of activity . Previous studies in unconscious mammals suggest that these neurons can spontaneously switch between the two types of electrical signals . However , it is not clear whether this switch occurs in awake animals , or how these nerve activities control muscle movements . It is technically challenging to record the voltage of single Purkinje neurons of conscious rodents , so Sengupta and Thirumalai avoided this problem by using zebrafish larvae instead . These larvae are small , transparent and lack a skull , which makes it possible to record the activity of the cerebellum using tiny glass electrodes . The experiments show that even when the larvae are awake , the Purkinje cells produce either spontaneous bursts or tonic activity and they can readily switch between the two . The switch is controlled in part by the voltage on the neurons' surface . A positive voltage is called the ‘up’ state , while a negative voltage is dubbed the ‘down’ state . Neurons in the ‘up’ state produced tonic pulses , while neurons in the ‘down’ state produced short bursts of activity with the help of an ion channel called AMPAR . Cells called motor neurons in the spinal cord carry the final command from the nervous system to the muscles . Sengupta and Thirumalai recorded the activity of motor neurons and Purkinje neurons at the same time . This revealed that Purkinje neurons receive a copy of the motor command that goes to the muscle and produce short bursts of electrical activity in response . This effect required AMPAR activity , and was blocked by molecules that inhibit AMPAR . Furthermore , Sengupta and Thirumalai report that the timing of these short bursts with respect to the motor command changes from one Purkinje neuron to another . Future work will investigate how the Purkinje neurons receive and process the information in the motor command .
The outer membrane of a cell is a tight but elastic barrier that controls what enters or leaves the cell . Large molecules typically cannot cross this membrane unaided . Instead , to enter the cell , they must be packaged into a pocket of the membrane that is then pulled inside . This process , called endocytosis , shuttles material into a cell hundreds of times a minute . Endocytosis relies on molecular machines that assemble and disassemble at the membrane as required . One component , a protein called actin , self-assembles near the membrane into long filaments with many repeated subunits . These filaments grow against the membrane , pulling it inwards . But it was not clear how actin filaments organize in such a way that allows them to pull on the membrane with enough force – and without a template to follow . Akamatsu et al . set about identifying how actin operates during endocytosis by using computer simulations that were informed by measurements made in living cells . The simulations included information about the location of actin and other essential molecules , along with the details of how these molecules work individually and together . Akamatsu et al . also developed a method to count the numbers of molecules of a key protein at individual sites of endocytosis . High-resolution imaging was then used to create 3D pictures of actin and endocytosis in action in human cells grown in the laboratory . The analysis showed the way actin filaments arrange themselves depends on the starting positions of a few key molecules that connect to actin . Imaging confirmed that , like a pole-vaulting pole , the flexible actin filaments bend to store energy and then release it to pull the membrane inwards during endocytosis . Finally , the simulations predicted that the collection of filaments adapts its shape and size in response to the resistance of the elastic membrane . This makes the system opportunistic and adaptable to the unpredictable environment within cells .
Cells can use a process known as macropinocytosis to take up fluid from their surroundings . This process plays an important role in many situations . For example , it allows human immune cells to sample their environment to search for harmful microbes and viruses and helps cancer cells to collect more nutrients so that they can grow more rapidly . During macropinocytosis , a protein called actin – which provides structural support to cells – drives the formation of cup-shaped structures from the membrane that surrounds the cell . Several signaling molecules control when and where the “cups” form , but it was not known exactly how the different types of molecules work together . Here Veltman et al . used a technique called lattice light sheet microscopy to investigate how the macropinocytic cups form in a single-celled amoeba known as Dictyostelium . The experiments revealed that to make a cup , the actin first arranges to form a ring . The ring copies a template in the membrane , which consists of high concentrations of signaling molecules , and then extends outward to form a hollow cup by which fluid is taken up . The most important signaling molecule identified in these patches of membrane is a protein called Ras , which is mutated and hyperactive in many different types of cancer . In Dictyostelium cells that have a genetic mutation that makes Ras more active , the patches of signaling molecules and macropinocytic cups were larger than in normal cells . The findings of Veltman et al . provide new details about how cells engulf fluids from their surroundings . The next steps will be to investigate how the signaling molecules form patches in the first place , and how they attract actin molecules . Also , more research is necessary to find out whether all cells take up fluid in a similar way or if other methods have evolved in mammalian cells .
DNA replication copies the genetic information contained in a cell's chromosomes . A ring-like protein complex , cohesin , holds together each pair of newly-replicated chromosomes , known as ‘sister chromatids’ . When the cell divides , cohesin is cleaved; this allows sister chromatids to separate , so that each daughter cell receives one member of each sister chromatid pair and thereby inherits a full complement of genes . Defects in this process result in severe developmental abnormalities . Moreover , the genes that underlie this process are among the most frequently mutated in cancer . Cohesin is enriched at centromeres: the chromosomal points of attachment to the apparatus ( called the ‘mitotic spindle’ ) that segregates the sister chromatids into the daughter cells . The protein complex that loads cohesin onto chromosomes determines this preferential localization . The two components of the loading complex , Scc2 and Scc4 , associate as a 1:1 pair . Hinshaw et al . used a technique called X-ray crystallography to determine the structure of Scc4 bound with a large fragment of Scc2 . The result showed that the elongated Scc4 twists around the fragment of Scc2 , forming an extended groove . Scc2 snakes through the Scc4 groove and emerges at both ends . Hinshaw et al . then performed a series of experiments in yeast cells to probe how Scc4 determines the location at which cohesin loads onto chromosomes . These experiments revealed that a region on the surface of Scc4 targets both Scc4 and Scc2 to centromeres . The amino-acid sequence of this centromere-targeting patch on the surface of Scc4 is conserved across species . Thus , the mechanism by which Scc4 localizes cohesin to centromeres may be similar in all eukaryotic organisms .
Garden dormice are small rodents which are common in European woodlands . They were historically widespread from Portugal in the west to the Urals ( Russia ) in the east . However they are now largely confined to western Europe with north-eastern and eastern populations having become scattered and fragmented . During the course of a year in northern and central Europe , they make the most of the warm season to fatten up and to produce up to two litters of youngsters . When winter comes , dormice enter hibernation , sometimes for more than six months . During this time , they must rely on their fat reserves to survive . Every year , the young from the second litter have less time to prepare for the winter compared to their siblings born earlier in the season . So , how do they still manage to get ready on time for hibernation ? Here , Mahlert et al . studied captive pups from first and second litters for their first year , following them as they grew up , entered and then emerged from their first hibernation . The late-born individuals developed nearly twice as fast as the ones born early in the season . In fact , both reached a similar body size , but the second-litter dormice had less fat reserves . Just before their first winter , both early- and late-born animals increasingly started to enter torpor – short and daily resting-like periods when the body slows down . Torpor rarely happens when animals are growing ( because growth requires a warm body ) , but it is useful to help storing and consolidating fat before the cold months . Late-born dormice experienced more torpor on average than their first-litter peers . Both groups survived their first hibernation; but when they emerged , late-born individuals were more likely to reproduce that year . In other words , the dormice which grew quickly might also have sexually matured earlier . This could suggest that animals born later in the season have a faster life history: they grow rapidly , reproduce quickly but may die younger than their early-born peers . Mahlert et al . highlighted how early-life events can shape the course of animals’ existences and influence how their bodies operate . It remains to be examined how these circumstances may affect the individuals in the longer term , and perhaps even their descendants .
DNA is the blueprint that tells each cell in an organism how it should operate . It encodes the instructions to make proteins and other molecules . To make a protein , a section of DNA known as a gene is used as a template to make molecules known as messenger ribonucleic acids ( or mRNAs for short ) . The message in RNA consists of a series of individual letters , known as nucleotides , that tell the cell how much of a protein should be produced ( referred to as gene expression ) as well as the specific activities of each protein . The letters in mRNAs can be changed in specific cells and at certain points in development through a process known as RNA editing . This process is essential for animals to grow and develop normally and for the brain to work properly . Errors in RNA editing are found in patients suffering from a variety of neuropathological diseases , including Alzheimer’s disease , depression and brain tumors . Humans have millions of editing sites that are predicted to affect gene expression . However , many studies of RNA editing have only focused on the changes that alter protein activity . The ADAR proteins carry out a specific type of RNA editing in animals . In a microscopic worm known as Caenorhabditis elegans the loss of an ADAR protein called ADR-2 reduces the ability of the worm to move in response to chemicals , a process known as chemotaxis . Deffit et al . found that loss of ADR-2 affected the expression of over 150 genes in the nervous system of the worm . To identify which letters in the mRNAs were edited in the nervous system , Deffit et al . developed a new publically available software program called SAILOR ( software for accurately identifying locations of RNA editing ) . This program can be used to detect RNA editing in any cell , tissue or organism . By combining the experimental and computational approaches , Deffit et al . were able to identify a gene that was edited in normal worms and expressed at lower levels in the mutant worms . Increasing the expression of just this one of gene in the mutant worms restored the worms’ ability to move towards a chemical “scent” . Together , these findings suggest that when studying human neuropathological diseases we should consider the effect of RNA editing on the amount of gene expression as well as protein activity . Future work should investigate the importance of RNA editing in controlling gene expression in other diseases including cancers .
Proteins carry out diverse activities in our cells . These proteins are constantly being built according to accurate instructions , which are encoded on molecules named messenger RNAs ( mRNAs for short ) . The process of converting the instructions into proteins is called translation . Viruses infect host cells and take over the cellular machinery that is responsible for translation . This causes the cell to produce viral proteins at the expense of host proteins – a process called host shutoff . As a result , viral proteins take over the cell and the infection accelerates . There are two main strategies used by viruses to co-opt the cell’s translation machinery: either host mRNAs are destroyed , or the machines that read mRNA molecules are manipulated to read only the viral instructions . Most viruses appear to dedicate themselves to using just one of these strategies . However , evidence suggests that the Influenza A virus uses both strategies to induce host shutoff . To investigate the extent to which each of the shutoff strategies is used by the Influenza A virus , Bercovich-Kinori , Tai et al . have studied infected human lung cells . This revealed that the virus primarily reduces the amount of host mRNA in the cells to take over the mRNA pool . The host mRNAs were affected by the infection to different extents . For example , the mRNAs that coded for proteins that perform important roles for the virus , such as produce energy , were not affected by the virus . A future challenge is to find out exactly how the Influenza A virus distinguishes between different cellular mRNAs . This knowledge may help to develop new treatments for flu .
When an embryo develops , its cells must work together and ‘talk’ with each other so they can build the tissues and organs of the body . A cell can communicate with its neighbors by producing a signal , also known as a morphogen , which will tell the receiving cells what to do . Once outside the cell , a morphogen spreads through the surrounding tissue and forms a gradient: there is more of the molecule closer to the signaling cells and less further away . The cells that receive the message respond differently depending on how much morphogen they get , and therefore on where they are placed in the embryo . How morphogens move in tissues to create gradients is still poorly understood . One hypothesis is that , once released , they spread passively through the space between cells . Instead , recent research has shown that some morphogens travel through long , thin cellular extensions known as cytonemes . These structures directly connect the cells that produce a morphogen with the ones that receive the molecule . Yet , it is still unclear how cytonemes can help to form gradients . Du et al . aimed to resolve this question by following a morphogen called Branchless as it traveled through fruit fly embryos . Branchless is important for sculpting the embryonic airway tissue into a delicate network of branched tubes which supply oxygen to the cells of an adult fly . However , no one knew how cells communicate Branchless , whether or not Branchless formed a gradient , and if it did , how this gradient was created to set up the plan to form airway tubes . It was assumed that the molecule would diffuse passively to reach airway cells – but this is not what the experiments by Du et al . showed . To directly observe how Branchless moves among cells , insects were genetically engineered to produce Branchless molecules attached to a fluorescent ‘tag’ . Microscopy experiments using these flies revealed that Branchless did not diffuse passively; instead , airway cells used cytonemes to ‘reach’ towards the cells that produced the molecule , collecting the signal directly from its source . The gradient was created because the airway cells near the cells that make Branchless had more cytonemes , and therefore received more of the molecule compared to the cells that were placed further away . Genetic analysis of the airway tissue showed that Branchless acts as a morphogen to switch on different genes in the receiving cells placed in different locations . The target genes activated by the gradient instruct the receiving cells on how many cytonemes need to be extended , which helps the gradient to maintain itself over time . Du et al . demonstrate for the first time how cytonemes can relay a signal to establish a gradient in a developing tissue . Dissecting how cells exchange information to create an organism could help to understand how this communication fails and leads to disorders .
Proteins are made up of building blocks called amino acids . Groups of amino acids within the protein can then fold into three-dimensional shapes , one of the most common being a helical structure known as an α-helix . Two or more α-helices may be wound around each other to form a bundle called a coiled coil , which is found in many proteins . Each complete turn of an α-helix contains a set number of amino acids , but the number of amino acids in the turns of a coiled coil can vary . The most common pattern in a coiled coil has 7 amino acids over two turns , which is known as a heptad repeat . When amino acids are added into or deleted from the heptad repeats , the number of amino acids in the turns of a coiled coil changes . However , it cannot increase too far beyond the number of amino acids in each turn of a normal α-helix because there is a limit to the amount of coiling that the helices can tolerate . Many naturally occurring coiled coils have regions where the overall α-helical structure is retained , even though there are small sections where the number of amino acids in a turn is disrupted . This may be due to insertions of small numbers of amino acids . Although the impact of some insertions ( e . g . three or four at a time ) has been studied , the effect of inserting other amounts of amino acids was not clear . Hartmann et al . investigated what would happen when two or six amino acids were inserted into the heptad repeats of a coiled coil within a protein from bacteria . These numbers of amino acids have been predicted to cause the greatest strain on the coiled coil structure . The experiments show that inserting these numbers of amino acids caused so much strain that the three α-helices making up the coiled coil break apart and refold into a completely different type of structure called a β-strand . The three short β-strands then associate into a triangular structure that Hartmann et al . named a β-layer . Further experiments showed that inserting the same numbers of amino acids into the heptad repeats of other coiled coil proteins also resulted in the formation of β-layers . Hartmann et al . ’s findings suggest that the alternating α-helix and β-strand structures may help to make the proteins stronger and enable to carry out more versatile roles in cells .
Clathrin-dependent endocytosis is one of the mechanisms used by cells to internalize specific proteins ( cargo ) from their surface . First , the cargo interacts with adaptor proteins that help cluster them in the cell's outer membrane , called the plasma membrane . This causes the protein clathrin to assemble into a lattice at the cytosolic side of the plasma membrane and deform the membrane into a pit . The pit grows deeper over time as more clathrin molecules assemble , eventually resulting in a deeply invaginated clathrin-coated pit that encloses the cargo to be taken up by the cell . The clathrin-coated pit then pinches off inside the cell in a process called fission to form a bubble-like structure called a vesicle , which transports the molecule to its destination . The deep invagination of clathrin-coated pits that leads to fission is assisted by actin , a protein that assembles into filaments that are suggested to generate the forces needed for this process . Many other factors are also involved . One of them is epsin , the collective name for a family of three very similar proteins in mammalian cells . Epsin binds to several other proteins implicated in clathrin-dependent endocytosis , including clathrin itself , and to plasma membrane proteins specifically ‘tagged’ for internalization . In addition , a portion of the epsin molecule can insert into the plasma membrane and help it to curve , which is important for forming the invaginated pit . However , due to the number of possible functions epsin could perform , its main role has remained elusive . Messa et al . created mouse cells that lack all three epsin proteins . Although these cells can form clathrin-coated pits , they struggle to develop into vesicles . The normal linking of the actin filaments to the clathrin coat does not occur , and another protein called Hip1R that also participates in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and links clathrin to actin , no longer accumulates at the clathrin-coated pits . Messa et al . also find that epsins can bind directly to actin . Overall , these results suggest that a main role of epsin is to help actin interact with the clathrin-coated pits and generate the force required for a pit to develop into a vesicle . However , epsin also performs many other roles , including recruiting a membrane protein ( a so-called SNARE ) that directs the fate of the vesicle to the clathrin-coated pit . Additionally , Messa et al . find that cells lacking all three epsins have problems dividing correctly . More research is required to establish whether this effect is also due to epsin's interaction with the cell's actin cytoskeleton .
Asthma is a chronic disease of the airways that leads to breathing difficulty and sometimes death: the condition affects about 235 million people worldwide , especially children . Scientists still do not know exactly what causes asthma , but studies in Europe and North America suggest that individuals born or raised in rural areas are less likely to be affected . However , few studies have examined asthma in African countries , where urbanization is often quickly increasing . Examining the factors associated with the disease as more people move to cities may provide new clues about how asthma emerges , and how to prevent it . To this end , Mpairwe et al . conducted a study with over 1 , 670 schoolchildren in Uganda . Those born or raised in rural areas were least likely to have asthma , but the risk doubled among children from small towns , and tripled in those born or who grew up in the city . Children whose parents had a higher education and socioeconomic status had the highest asthma risk , but more work is required to understand why this is the case . The study by Mpairwe et al . is the first step towards identifying environmental and lifestyle factors associated with increased asthma risk in Africa . Further studies may help scientists to understand how beginning life in a more urban area plays a role in the development of the disease .
The colour patterns that mark an animal's skin , hair , or feathers—called the pigmentation pattern—can be very important for its survival and fitness , helping it to hide from predators or to attract a mate . As a result , there is considerable interest in understanding how genes , proteins , and cells work together to produce the many different pigmentation patterns that exist in the animal world . Adult zebrafish have a characteristic pigmentation pattern of horizontal dark and light stripes on their bodies and fins . There are three types of pigment cell that create this pattern . Xanthophores and iridophores are found all over the body , and the dark stripes also contain melanophore cells . The silvery , reflective iridophores are the first of the cells to populate the skin , giving rise to the first light stripe . They then form a dense network of cells that breaks up to form the darker stripes . However , iridophores are not required to form stripes in the fins , suggesting that patterning occurs differently in the fins and the body . Mutations to a gene called leopard , or leo for short , cause spots to form on the skin of the zebrafish in place of the usual stripes . This gene encodes a member of the connexin family of proteins , which form channels in the membranes that surround cells . These channels—known as gap junctions—allow neighbouring cells to communicate with each other . Each gap junction is made up of two half channels , with one half coming from each neighbouring cells . If the two half channels are identical , the gap junction is known as ‘homomeric’; ‘heteromeric’ gap junctions are made from two different half channels , each consisting of a different connexin protein . The connexin encoded by leo is required for both types of gap junction to form between melanophores and xanthophores . Irion et al . discovered a new mutation to the leo gene that completely disrupts the patterning of the zebrafish . A technique called a genetic screen revealed that the same patterning defects are also seen in the body of zebrafish with mutations to another gene called luchs , which encodes a different connexin protein to the one produced by leo . However , the fins of zebrafish with mutant versions of luchs remain striped . The findings of Irion et al . suggest that heteromeric gap junctions formed from the connexins produced by leo and luchs are important for xanthophores and melanophores to communicate with each other and so form the stripy patterning seen on the body of the zebrafish . The signals transmitted through the gap junctions may also make the iridophores adopt the looser arrangement that is required for the dark stripes to form . As a next step , it will be important to identify the signals that pass through these gap junctions that allow the cells to communicate with their neighbours and establish the pigmentation pattern .
Detecting chemical cues can be a matter of life or death for insects , and many employ three families of receptor proteins to detect a broad range of odors . Members of one of these receptor families , the olfactory receptors , form a complex with another protein , the olfactory coreceptor that is essential for both positioning and stabilizing the receptor , as well as the actual function . Crustaceans share a common ancestor with insects , and since they do not have olfactory receptors it has been proposed that these receptors evolved when prehistoric insects moved from the sea to live on land . According to this idea , olfactory receptors evolved because these ancestors needed to be able to detect odor molecules floating in the air rather than dissolved in water . Previous research on insect olfactory receptors has focused on insects with wings . Missbach et al . have now used a wide range of techniques to investigate how evolutionarily older wingless insect groups detect scents . As all investigated groups evolved from a common ancestor at different times these experiments allow tracking of the historical development of olfactory receptors . In the wingless species that is more closely related to the flying insects there was evidence of the presence of multiple coreceptors but not the olfactory receptors themselves . In the most basal insects no evidence for any part of the olfactory receptor-based system was found . This indicates that the main olfactory receptors evolved independently of the coreceptor long after the migration of insects from water to land . Missbach et al . suggest that olfactory receptors instead developed far later , around the time when vascular plants spread and insects developed the ability to fly .
The global burden of malaria has decreased over the last decade . Many countries now aim to banish malaria . One obstacle to elimination is people who carry malaria parasites without showing symptoms . These asymptomatic people are unlikely to be diagnosed and treated and may contribute to further spread of malaria . One way to clear all malaria infections would be to ask everyone in a community to take antimalarial drugs at the same time , even if they do not feel ill . This tactic is most likely to work in communities that are already reducing malaria infections by other means . For example , by treating symptomatic people and using bed nets to prevent bites from malaria-infected mosquitos . Several studies have shown that mass drug administration is a promising approach to reduce malaria infections . But its success depends on enough people participating . If enough community members take antimalarial drugs , then even those who cannot participate , such as young children or pregnant women , should be less likely to get malaria . This is called the herd effect . Now , Parker et al . demonstrate that mass antimalarial drug administration reduces infections with malaria caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum . The analysis looked at malaria infections among residents of four villages in the Kayin State of Myanmar that used mass antimalarial drug administration . People who lived in neighborhoods with high participation in mass drug administration were almost three times less likely to get malaria than people who lived in communities with low participation . Even people who did not take part benefited . The analysis suggests that mass antimalaria drug administration benefits individuals and their communities if enough people take part . To be successful , malaria elimination programs that wish to use mass drug administration should approach communities in a way that encourages high levels of participation .
Flies look very different from humans , but both are descended from a common ancestor that existed over 600 million years ago . Some differences between animal species are due to them having different genes: stretches of DNA that contain the instructions to make proteins and other molecules . However , often differences are caused by the same or similar genes being switched on and off at different times and in different tissues in each species . The instructions that control when and where a gene is expressed are written in the sequence of DNA bases located in the regulatory region of the gene . These instructions are written in a language that is often called the ‘gene regulatory code’ . This code is read and interpreted by proteins called transcription factors that bind to specific sequences of DNA ( or ‘DNA words’ ) and increase or decrease gene expression . Changes in gene expression between species could therefore be due to changes in the transcription factors and/or changes in the instructions within the regulatory regions of specific genes . Gene regulatory regions are not well conserved between species . However , it is unclear if the instructions in these regions are written using the same gene regulatory code , and whether transcription factors found in different species recognize different DNA words . Nitta et al . have now used high-throughput methods to identify the DNA words recognized by 242 transcription factors from a fruit fly called Drosophila melanogaster . Nitta et al . then used new computational tools to find motifs , or collections of DNA words , that are recognized by each of the transcription factors . By comparing the motifs , they observed that , in spite of more than 600 million years of evolution , almost all known motifs found in humans and mice were recognized by fruit fly transcription factors . Nitta et al . noted that both fruit flies and humans have transcription factors that recognize a few unique motifs , and confer properties that are specific to each species . For example , some of the transcription factors that control the development of the fruit fly wing are not present in humans . Moreover , fruit flies lack both mucus-producing goblet cells and the ability to recognize a motif read by the transcription factor that controls the development of these cells in humans . The findings of Nitta et al . also indicate that transcription factors do not evolve to recognize subtly different DNA motifs , but instead appear constrained to recognize the same motifs . Thus , much like the genetic code that instructs how to build proteins , the gene regulatory code that determines how DNA sequences direct gene expression is also highly conserved in animals . The language used to guide the development of animals has , as such , remained very similar for millions of years . What makes animals different is differences in the content and length of the instructions that are written using this language into the regulatory regions of their genes .
Organs begin developing during the first few months of pregnancy , while the baby is still an embryo . These early stages of development are known as embryogenesis – a tightly organized process , during which the embryo forms different layers of stem cells . These cells can be activated to turn into a particular type of cell , such as a heart or a lung cell . The heart and lungs develop from different layers within the embryo , which must communicate with each other for the organs to form correctly . For example , chemical signals can be released from and travel between layers of the embryo , activating processes inside cells located in the different areas . In mouse models , chemical signals and cells travel between developing heart and lung , which helps both organs to form into the correct structure . But it is unclear how well the observations from mouse models translate to heart and lung development in humans . To find out more , Ng et al . developed a human model of heart and lung co-development during embryogenesis using human pluripotent stem cells . The laboratory-grown stem cells were treated with chemical signals , causing them to form different layers that developed into early forms of heart and lung cells . The cells were then transferred into a specific growing condition , where they arranged into three-dimensional structures termed microtissues . Ng et al . found that lung cells developed faster when grown in microtissues with accompanying developing heart cells compared to microtissues containing only developing lung cells . In addition , Ng et al . revealed that the co-developing heart and lung tissues automatically separate from each other during later stage , without the need for chemical signals . This human cell-based model of early forms of co-developing heart and lung cells may help provide researchers with new strategies to probe the underlying mechanisms of human heart and lung interaction during embryogenesis .
A cell’s DNA can acquire errors over the course of its lifetime . These errors , known as mutations , are often harmful and can cripple the cell . However , some mutations are needed to enable a cell or organism to adapt to changes in its environment . Since there is a trade-off between acquiring beneficial mutations versus harmful ones , cells carefully balance how often they acquire new mutations . Cells have several mechanisms that limit the number of mutations by correcting errors in DNA . Occasionally these repair mechanisms may fail so that a small number of cells in a population accumulate mutations more quickly than other cells . This process is known as “hypermutation” and it enables some cells to rapidly adapt to changing conditions in order to avoid the entire population from becoming extinct . So far , studies on hypermutation have largely been carried out under conditions that are mildly stressful to the cells , which only cause low frequency of hypermutation . However , little is known about the role of this process in cells under near-lethal levels of stress , for example , when drugs target bacteria or cancer cells in the human body . Swings et al . studied hypermutation in populations of a bacterium called Escherichia coli exposed to levels of alcohol that cause the bacteria to experience extreme stress . The experiments show that hypermutation occurs rapidly in these conditions and is essential for bacteria to adapt to the level of alcohol and avoid extinction . Populations of bacteria in which hypermutation did not occur were unable to develop tolerance to the alcohol and perished . Further experiments show that an individual population of bacteria can alter the rate of mutation ( that is , how often new mutations arise ) several times as a result of changing stress levels . The findings of Swings et al . suggest that hypermutation can rapidly arise in populations of cells that are experiencing extreme stress . Therefore , this process may pose a serious risk in the development of drug resistant bacteria and cancer cells . In the future , developing new drugs that target hypermutation may help to fight bacterial infections and cancer .
Organisms need to adjust their metabolism in response to changing environmental conditions to ensure that they balance their energy intake with the demands of growth and reproduction . In plants , an enzyme called SnRK1 plays a crucial role in responses to starvation in two ways: by altering the activities of enzymes involved in metabolism and by regulating the expression of genes . To perform the second job , SnRK1 is thought to control the activity of proteins called transcription factors—which alter the expression of genes by binding to DNA—but it is not known which ones . SnRK1 has ‘kinase’ activity , that is , it can alter the activities of other proteins by adding small molecules called phosphates to them . It has been suggested that a group of transcription factors called the bZIP proteins may be regulated by SnRK1 . Two bZIP proteins work together to switch on a gene , and the combination of bZIP proteins that interact can influence which genes are switched on . Here , Mair et al . studied the role of a bZIP protein called bZIP63 during starvation in the plant Arabidopsis . The experiments show that bZIP63 is involved in controlling responses to starvation . Furthermore , its activity is regulated by SnRK1 , which adds phosphates to three specific locations on the protein . These phosphates alter the ability of bZIP63 to interact with other bZIP proteins , leading to changes in gene expression during starvation . Mair et al . triggered starvation in Arabidopsis plants by keeping the plants in darkness for several days . The leaves of normal plants turn yellow in response to starvation , but the leaves of mutant plants that lacked bZIP63 remained green . In contrast , plants containing higher amounts of this bZIP protein showed the opposite effect and their leaves turned yellow much more quickly than normal plants . The mutant plants that lacked bZIP63 could be rescued by the normal protein , but not by another version of the protein that SnRK1 is unable to add phosphates to . These data suggest that SnRK1 regulates bZIP63 activity to alter metabolism in response to starvation . Mair et al . propose a model in which the ability of bZIP63 to interact with other bZIPs is normally rather low . However , when the plants are starved , SnRK1 adds phosphates to bZIP63 , which increases its ability to bind to other bZIP proteins and leads to changes in gene expression . The bZIP proteins are also found in animals; therefore a future challenge is to find out whether these proteins are also regulated in a similar way .
Brain activity depends on the communication between neurons . This process takes place at the junctions between neurons , which are known as synapses , and typically involves one of the cells releasing a chemical messenger that binds to receptors on the other cell . The binding triggers a cascade of events inside the recipient cell , including the production of new receptors and their insertion into the cell membrane . These changes strengthen the synapse and are thought to be one of the ways in which the brain establishes and maintains memories . However , in order to induce these changes at the synapse , neurons must be able to activate the genes that encode their component parts . These genes are present inside the cell nucleus , which is located some distance away from the synapse . Studies have shown that signals can be sent from the nucleus to the synapse and vice versa , enabling the two parts of the cell to exchange information . Synapses that communicate using a chemical called glutamate have been particularly well studied; but it still remains unclear how the activation of receptors at these “glutamatergic synapses” is linked to activation of genes inside the nucleus at the molecular level . Dinamarca , Guzzetti et al . have now discovered that this process at glutamatergic synapses involves the movement of a protein messenger to the nucleus . Specifically , activation at synapses of a particularly common subtype of receptor , called NMDA , causes a protein called Ring Finger protein 10 ( or RNF10 for short ) to move from the synapse to the nucleus . To leave the synapse , RNF10 first has to bind to proteins called importins , which transport RNF10 into the nucleus . Once inside the nucleus , RNF10 binds to another protein that interacts with the DNA to start the production of new synaptic proteins . Further work is required to identify the molecular mechanisms that trigger RNF10 to leave the synapse . In addition , future studies should evaluate the levels and activity of RNF10 in brain disorders in which synapses are known to function abnormally .
An organism’s DNA contains thousands of genes , not all of which are active at the same time . Cells use a number of methods to carefully control when particular genes are switched on or off . For example , proteins called transcription factors can activate a gene by binding to particular regions of DNA called promoters . One such transcription factor is called the TATA-binding protein ( TBP for short ) . Mot1 is a remodeling enzyme that can form a “complex” with TBP by binding to it , and in doing so remove TBP from DNA . This silences the genes at those sites . The freed TBP can then bind to other promoters that lack Mot1 and activate the genes found there . In 2011 , researchers revealed the structure of the complex formed between TBP and Mot1 after TBP has been detached from DNA . However , the structure of the complex that forms while TBP is still bound to the DNA molecule was not known . Butryn et al . – including several of the researchers involved in the 2011 work – have now described the structure of this complex using X-ray crystallography and electron microscopy . Another protein called negative cofactor 2 is also part of the complex , and helps to stabilize it . Butryn et al . found that Mot1 reduces the strength of the interactions between DNA and both TBP and negative cofactor 2 . Binding to TBP and negative cofactor 2 causes the DNA molecule to bend; however , if Mot1 is also in the complex , the DNA becomes less bent . By making these changes , Mot1 is likely to prime TBP to detach from the DNA . Since the current structures do not yet reveal the atomic structure of Mot1’s ATP dependent DNA motor domain , the next challenge is to visualize the entire complex at atomic resolution .
Many plants , fungi , and bacteria have evolved to produce small molecules that have powerful effects on the cells of other living organisms , and can even kill them . These naturally produced compounds are often used as starting points for developing new drugs . One such class of compounds are the cyclic peptides , which can be relatively easily produced in the laboratory and are able to penetrate cells . Some cyclic peptides have also proved to be useful for treating cancer and immune diseases , so researchers are keen to identify others that have similar effects . One promising prospect , called ternatin , is produced by several species of fungi . In high doses , ternatin can kill mammalian cells , but it was not clear how it does so . To learn more , Carelli et al . searched a chemical database for cyclic peptides related to ternatin and identified several similar compounds that were reported to kill cancer cells . Inspired by the structures of these cyclic peptides , Carelli et al . synthesized modified versions of ternatin . One of these was 500 times more potent than ternatin , which means a much lower dose of the compound is still able to kill cancer cells . Further experiments showed that ternatin blocks the production of new proteins in cells . Specifically , ternatin binds to a complex that includes a protein called elongation factor-1A ( eEF1A ) . Mutations in a particular region of eEF1A prevent ternatin from killing cells , suggesting a potential binding site for ternatin . The next challenge is to dissect the mechanism by which compounds binding to this site on eEF1A block protein synthesis and kill cells . A related challenge is to understand why certain cancer cells are hypersensitive to ternatin and other eEF1A inhibitors , while other cancer cells are relatively resistant . These questions are relevant to the development of eEF1A inhibitors as cancer treatments .
Oculo-Cerebro-Renal syndrome of Lowe ( Lowe syndrome ) is a rare genetic disorder that can cause cataracts , mental disabilities and kidney dysfunction . It is caused by mutations in the gene encoding OCRL , a protein that modifies a membrane lipid and that is found on membranes transporting molecules ( cargo ) into cells by a process known as endocytosis . During endocytosis , the cell outer membrane is deformed into a pit that engulfs the cargo to be taken up by the cell . The pit then pinches off from the outer membrane to form a vesicle—a bubble-like compartment—inside the cell that transports the cargo to its destination . In one type of endocytosis , this process is mediated by a basket-like coat primarily made up from the protein clathrin that assembles at the membrane patch to be internalized . After the vesicle is released from the cell membrane , the clathrin coat is broken apart and its components are shed and recycled for use by new budding endocytic vesicles . The OCRL protein had previously been observed associated to newly forming clathrin-coated vesicles , but the significance of this was not known . Now , Nández et al . have used a range of imaging and analytical techniques to further investigate the properties of OCRL , taking advantage of cells from patients with Lowe syndrome . These cells lack OCRL , and so allow the effect of OCRL's absence on cell function to be deduced . OCRL destroys the membrane lipid that helps to connect the clathrin coat to the membrane , and Nández et al . show that without OCRL the newly formed vesicle moves into the cell but fails to efficiently shed its clathrin coat . Thus , a large fraction of clathrin coat components remain trapped on the vesicles , reducing the amount of such components available to help new pits develop into vesicles . As a consequence , the cell has difficulty internalizing molecules . Collectively , the findings of Nández et al . outline that OCRL plays a role in the regulation of endocytosis in addition to its previously reported actions in the control of intracellular membrane traffic . The results also help to explain some of the symptoms seen in Lowe syndrome patients .
The cells in our body communicate with each other to coordinate many essential processes , including cell division and the formation of tissues and organs . The Wnt signaling pathway is crucial for cell communication across all animal species , but activating this pathway at the wrong time can cause cancer to develop . As part of the investigation into treatments for colon and other intestinal cancers , researchers have tried to identify drugs that inhibit Wnt signaling . This search would be easier if we understood more about how the Wnt signaling pathway is controlled . When the protein GSK3 is active , it can switch the Wnt signaling pathway ‘off’ , and inactivating GSK3 can turn the Wnt signaling pathway ‘on’ . Enzymes known as kinases can inactivate GKS3 by adding a phosphate group to it , in a process known as phosphorylation . It was unknown which kinases phosphorylate GSK3 , and whether this affects how cancerous tumors develop in the colon . Gao , Chen et al . analyzed cells taken from human and mice and observed that two kinases called PYK2 and FAK phosphorylate one form of GSK3 , known as GSK3β . Furthermore , both kinases are required to inactivate GSK3β completely , and so turn on the Wnt signaling pathway . During the early stages of colon cancer , cells first develop into polyps , which subsequently become cancerous . Gao , Chen et al . treated mice that had genetic mutations that made them susceptible to colon cancer with a chemical compound that inhibits both FAK and PYK2 . These mice grew fewer polyps than untreated mice , and the polyps that did grow tended to be smaller . Tissue samples taken from humans in the early stages of colon cancer—as the polyps progress towards becoming cancerous—had high levels of FAK , PYK2 and phosphorylated GSK3β . Overall , this suggests that drugs that simultaneously inhibit FAK and PYK2 may be an effective treatment for colon cancer , although further studies will be needed to confirm this .
Crossing Abbey Road is something of a paradox in neuroscientific terms . As you stand waiting to cross , tiny movements of your body – such as those due to breathing – cause you to sway by small amounts . To prevent you from falling over , your brain makes active corrections to your posture . These posture-correcting mechanisms oppose movements such as sway and keep you standing upright . But what happens when you want to cross the road ? To get you moving , your brain has two options . It could temporarily suppress the posture-correcting mechanisms . Or it could reconfigure them so that they work in a different way . The posture-correcting mechanisms rely upon sensory input from various sources . These include the vestibular system of the inner ear . The vestibular system tells the brain about the position and movement of the head in space and relative to gravity . Monitoring vestibular system activity as a person starts to move should thus reveal what is happening to the posture-correcting mechanisms . Tisserand et al . asked healthy volunteers to transition between standing still and walking , or to shift their weight from one foot to the other . At the same time , small non-painful electric currents were applied to the bones behind the volunteers' ears . These currents induced small changes in vestibular system activity . Sensors in the floor measured the forces the volunteers generated while standing or walking , thereby revealing how they adjusted their balance . The results showed that the brain suppresses its posture-correcting mechanisms before people start or stop moving . These findings have implications for robotics . They could make it easier to program robots to show smooth transitions into and out of movement . The findings are also relevant to movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease . One common symptom of this disorder is freezing of gait , in which patients suddenly feel as though their feet are glued to the ground . Understanding how the brain controls movement transitions may reveal how such symptoms arise .
The cycle of day and night is one of the most recurrent and predictable environmental changes on our planet . Consequently , organisms have evolved mechanisms that allow them to measure time over 24 hours and prepare for the periodic changes between light and dark . These mechanisms , known as circadian clocks , alter the activity of some of the organism’s genes in a rhythmic way across the course of a day . This in turn causes certain behaviors and biological activities of the organism to follow a daily cycle . The bacterium Synechococcus elongatus needs to be able to track the daily cycle of light and dark because it performs photosynthesis and depends on sunlight to form sugars , which can later be broken down to release energy . The time information encoded in the circadian clock of S . elongatus is transmitted to the protein RpaA , which drives the regular circadian changes in gene activity in the cell . If RpaA is removed from the cell or prevented from working , S . elongatus can no longer control rhythmic gene activity and is unable to survive the night . To better understand how the circadian system schedules biological tasks to help an organism to survive , Puszynska and O'Shea studied S . elongatus cells . This revealed that the bacteria normally prepare for darkness by storing sugars during the day and activating several genes at dusk to make enzymes that are required to break down stored sugars . This provides the cells with energy that they need to survive the night . But mutant cells that lack the gene that produces RpaA do not prepare for darkness; they do not accumulate a store of sugars during the day or activate the vital genes at dusk . They have low internal energy levels in the dark and they cannot survive long periods of darkness . Providing the mutant cells with sugar and restoring the activity of the genes responsible for breaking down sugar enabled the cells to maintain energy in darkness and survive the night . It therefore appears that one role of the circadian system of S . elongatus is to coordinate building up sugar reserves during the day with breaking down sugar stores to generate energy during the night . Puszynska and O'Shea also found many other genes that are not activated at dusk in the mutant cells . It will therefore be important to study whether other pathways that help cells to survive and grow are defective in these mutant cells .
Heavy metals such as zinc and cobalt are toxic at high levels , yet most organisms need tiny amounts for their cells to work properly . As a result , proteins studded through the cell membrane act as gatekeepers to finetune import and export . These proteins are central to health and disease; their defect can lead to fatal illnesses in humans , and they also help bacteria infect other organisms . Despite their importance , little is known about some of these metal-export proteins . This is particularly the case for PIB-4-ATPases , a subclass found in plants and bacteria and which includes , for example , a metal transporter required for bacteria to cause tuberculosis . Intricate knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of these proteins would help to understand how they select metals , shuttle the compounds in and out of cells , and are controlled by other cellular processes . To reveal this three-dimensional organisation , Grønberg et al . used X-ray diffraction , where high-energy radiation is passed through crystals of protein to reveal the positions of atoms . They focused on a type of PIB-4-ATPases found in bacteria as an example . The work showed that the protein does not contain the metal-binding regions seen in other classes of metal exporters; however , it sports unique features that are crucial for metal transport such as an adapted pathway for the transport of zinc and cobalt across the membrane . In addition , Grønberg et al . tested thousands of compounds to see if they could block the activity of the protein , identifying two that could kill bacteria . This better understanding of how PIB-4-ATPases work could help to engineer plants capable of removing heavy metals from contaminated soils , as well as uncover new compounds to be used as antibiotics .
Understanding how genes are activated and silenced is one of the central challenges in modern biology . These processes underpin the development of a fertilized egg into a complex organism , and they can also lead to life-threatening diseases when they go wrong . There are two copies of each gene in a human cell , a maternal copy and a paternal copy , and it is thought that both copies are usually regulated together . However , there are exceptions to this rule: for certain genes only the maternal copy is expressed as a protein in some cells , whereas the paternal copy is expressed in other cells . This form of gene regulation , which is called monoallelic expression , can result in neighboring cells heading down very different paths . In extreme cases , depending on the differences between the two copies of the gene , cells that express one copy may function normally , while cells where the other copy is activated will start forming tumors . However , despite these potentially grave consequences , and early results which suggested that monoallelic expression affected a large number of human and mouse genes , it has proved to be a major technical challenge to identify these genes in most cell types . Now , Nag , Savova et al . have discovered a molecular signature that can be used to detect monoallelic expression . The signature was found in chromatin , the densely packed structure formed by DNA and proteins inside the cell nucleus . Nag , Savova et al . discovered that the genes that are subject to monoallelic expression are bound with proteins that are modified in two contrasting ways . One modification , which is usually a sign of gene silencing , is prevalent on the inactive copy of the gene , and the other , which often marks active genes , is chiefly present on the active copy . Nag , Savova et al . report that these modifications are found in different sets of genes in different cell types , indicating distinct genome-wide patterns of monoallelic expression . The chromatin signature approach lets them estimate the fraction of human genes that are subject to monoallelic expression . This number is surprisingly high: about 20% of commonly expressed genes and more than one-third of tissue-specific genes . In a particularly intriguing finding , almost all bivalent genes—a subset of genes that are involved in determining the fate of cell during development—are estimated to become monoallelic when they are activated . In addition to these unexpected findings , the chromatin signature approach opens the door to exploring monoallelic expression as a form of gene regulation in all types of cells and , ultimately , to understanding how it is involved in both normal development and in disease .
If a protein does not fold into the correct shape , it may be unable to act correctly and can harm cells . As a result , cells contain biological machines that refold or break down misfolded proteins . ATP-dependent AAA+ proteases are an example of such machines . Their activity needs to be tightly controlled because breaking down the wrong proteins can also harm cells . ATP-dependent AAA+ proteases form ring-shaped assemblies that are composed of AAA+ proteins and an associated peptidase . In bacteria , the AAA+ protein called ClpC can be crucial for resisting stress and infecting host cells . Adapter proteins help to activate ClpC by binding to extra domains that are fused to or inserted into the protein . This method of activation also requires repressing elements that ensure that the activity of ClpC remains low when the adapter proteins are not present . It was not known how this repression works . Carroni , Franke et al . have now used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structures of repressed and adapter-activated ClpC from pathogenic bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus . In the repressed state , 10 molecules of ClpC interact to form two assemblies that interact via regions called middle domains . The middle domains have a “coiled coil” structure , and they interact via their ends in a head-to-head manner . In the repressed state ClpC cannot interact with its partner peptidase and the shape of the assembly shields the sites where adapter proteins can bind . This renders ClpC inactive . Carroni , Franke et al . also studied ClpC proteins that had mutations to the middle domain that prevented the repressed state from forming . The mutant proteins remain in a constantly active state that is highly toxic to bacteria . Bacteria are increasingly evolving to resist the effects of the antibiotics commonly used to treat infections . This is a severe problem , and we need to develop new antibiotic drugs that will kill these bacteria . AAA+ proteases have been identified as possible targets for new antibacterial drugs . The results presented by Carroni , Franke et al . suggest that disrupting the repressing activity of ClpC middle domains could be an effective way for such drugs to work .
Muscles experience wear and tear over our lifetimes and therefore need to be regularly repaired and replenished by new cells . These cells are produced by stem cells , which often reside in a special microenvironment called the stem cell niche . This niche may also contain support cells that produce signals to attract stem cells and then maintain them in a dormant state . When the muscle is damaged , its resident stem cells are activated so that they divide to produce new cells . Understanding how this happens is an important goal for regenerative medicine , but many of the details remain unclear . In fruit flies , stem cells called adult muscle precursor cells ( or AMPs for short ) lie dormant in the embryo and larva , but are then activated to form the muscles of the adult fly . These cells share many features with the muscle stem cells of mammals , which prompted Aradhya , Zmojdzian et al . to use them as a model to investigate how stem cells find their niche and are later activated . For the experiments , the AMPs in fruit fly larvae were labelled with a fluorescent protein . Aradhya , Zmojdzian et al . observed that these cells produce long extensions that connect them to each other , to nearby muscle and to nerve cells . During development , these extensions are gradually lost until they contact only the muscles that are closest to the AMPs , which indicates that these muscles provide a niche for the AMPs and are perhaps involved in their activation . Further experiments show that neighbouring muscles do indeed help to activate AMPs , as they produce a signal that activates a cell communication system called the insulin pathway inside the AMPs . Insulin signalling – which is sensitive to the availability of nutrients in the body – turns on another signalling pathway , called Notch , that then stimulate the AMPs to divide . Aradhya , Zmojdzian et al . propose that this signalling cascade might help to ensure that AMPs are only activated at the right time in development . The next step is to find out whether stem cells in human muscles are activated in a similar way .
Some neurons in the brain produce electrical signals ( or “fire” ) spontaneously , without receiving any other signals from the senses or from other neurons . This spontaneous activity has a number of important roles . For example , in a part of the brain known as the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( SNr ) , spontaneously active neurons frequently produce electrical signals that reduce electrical activity in other brain areas . A current of positively charged ions constantly flows into the spontaneously active SNr neurons and enables them to fire constantly . Ions enter neurons through proteins called ion channels that are embedded in the surface of the neuron . Like all proteins , ion channels are made by “transcribing” genes to form molecules of RNA that are then “translated” to produce the basic sequence of the protein . Lutas et al . have now used single-cell RNA sequencing to study SNr neurons from mice and investigate which ion channel the positive ion current flows through . The RNA sequences revealed that the neurons have the gene for an ion channel known as NALCN . Recordings of the firing rate of neurons in slices of mouse brain showed that SNr neurons without this channel did not fire as often as SNr neurons with the channel . In addition , neurotransmitters ( chemicals that alter the ability of neurons to fire ) and changes in cell metabolism had less of an effect on the firing rate of SNr neurons that lacked the NALCN channel than they do on normal neurons . These findings may help explain why people with mutations in the NALCN gene have movement disorders , as the substantia nigra pars reticulata plays an important role in orchestrating complex movements . Future work is now needed to understand how a change in NALCN activity affects the other brain areas that SNr neurons connect to .
Antibiotics are chemicals derived from microorganisms that can kill the bacteria that harm human health . In the 20th and 21st centuries antibiotics saved millions of lives , but new strains of dangerous bacteria that cannot be killed by antibiotics , known as antibiotic resistant strains , are becoming more frequent . Most antibiotics are produced by only a small group of microorganisms , but many more microorganisms exist in nature . So it is possible that microorganisms outside this small group can produce different antibiotics that are effective against antibiotic resistant strains . Unfortunately , finding the microorganisms that produce these alternative antibiotics is challenging because researchers do not know which bacteria are producing these molecules and how to grow these microorganisms in the laboratory . To solve this problem , Mahler et al . developed a new method for growing a new subset of microorganisms in the laboratory . This would allow researchers to study the new microorganisms under controlled conditions , and determine whether any of the substances they produce have antibiotic properties . Mahler et al . generated tiny droplets that could only contain a single cell of a microorganism , so each microbe could grow alone in its own protected environment . Using this approach , it was possible to grow completely different types of microorganisms than with traditional techniques , and keep them isolated from each other . This allowed each different species of microbe to be screened for antimicrobial activity , allowing the identification of chemicals that could potentially be developed into new antibiotics . This new method is automated and miniaturized , paving the way for growing many more cells in few hours , with very low material and space requirements . These results showcase a way of growing new types of microorganisms in the laboratory , making it easier and faster to study them and determine what chemicals they produce . Understanding a greater variety of microorganisms in detail can help identify new chemicals for industrial applications , including new ways of combating infections .
Tuberculous meningitis is a serious infection of the lining of the brain , which affects over 100 , 000 people a year . Without treatment , it is always fatal: even with proper antibiotics , about a quarter of patients do not survive and many will have permanent brain damage . Overactive inflammation is thought to contribute to this process . Corticosteroid drugs , which dampen the inflammatory process , are therefore often used during treatment . However , they merely reduce mortality by 30% , suggesting that only some people benefit from them . Two recent studies have linked the genetic makeup of individuals who have tuberculous meningitis to how they respond to corticosteroids . There were , in particular , differences in the LTA4H gene that codes for an inflammation-causing protein . According to these results , only individuals carrying high-inflammation versions of the LTA4H gene would benefit from the treatment . Yet a third study did not find any effect of the genetic background of patients . All three papers used frequentist statistics to draw their conclusions , only examining the percentage of people who survived in each group . Yet , this type of analysis can miss important details . It also does not work well when the number of patients is small , or when the effectiveness of a drug varies during the course of an illness . Another method , called Bayesian statistics , can perform better under these limitations . In particular , it takes into account the probability of an event based on prior knowledge – for instance , that the risk of dying varies smoothly with time . Here , Whitworth et al . used Bayesian statistics to reanalyse the data from these studies , demonstrating that death rates were correlated with the type of LTA4H gene carried by patients . In particular , corticosteroid treatment worked best for people with the high inflammation versions of the gene . However , regardless of genetic background , corticosteroids were not effective if patients were extremely sick before being treated . The work by Whitworth et al . demonstrates the importance of using Bayesian statistics to examine the effectiveness of medical treatments . It could help to design better protocols for tuberculous meningitis treatment , tailored to the genetic makeup of patients .
Neurons communicate with each other by forming intricate webs that link cells together according to a precise pattern . A neuron can connect to another by growing a branch-like structure known as the axon . To contact the correct neuron , the axon must develop and thread its way to exactly the right place in the brain . Scientists know that the tip of the axon is extraordinarily sensitive to gradients of certain molecules in its surroundings , which guide the budding structure towards its final destination . In particular , two molecules seem to play an important part in this process: netrin-1 , which is a protein found outside cells that attracts a growing axon , and shootin1a , which is present inside neurons . Previous studies have shown that netrin-1 can trigger a cascade of reactions that activates shootin1a . In turn , activated shootin1a molecules join the internal skeleton of the cell with L1-CAM , a molecule that attaches the neuron to its surroundings . If the internal skeleton is the engine of the axon , L1-CAMs are the wheels , and shootin1a the clutch . However , it is not clear whether shootin1a is involved in guiding growing axons , and how it could help neurons ‘understand’ and react to gradients of netrin-1 . Here , Baba et al . discover that when shootin1a is absent in mice , the axons do not develop properly . Further experiments in rat neurons show that if there is a little more netrin-1 on one side of the tip of an axon , this switches on the shootin1a molecules on that edge . Activated shootin1a promote interactions between the internal skeleton and L1-CAM , helping the axon curve towards the area that has more netrin-1 . In fact , if the activated shootin1a is present everywhere on the axon , and not just on one side , the structure can develop , but not turn . Taken together , the results suggest that shootin1a can read the gradients of netrin-1 and then coordinate the turning of a growing axon in response . Wound healing , immune responses or formation of organs are just a few examples of processes that rely on cells moving in an orderly manner through the body . Dissecting how axons are guided through their development may shed light on the migration of cells in general . Ultimately , this could help scientists to understand disorders such as birth abnormalities or neurological disabilities , which arise when this process goes awry .
Anyone walking outdoors has heard the whooshing sound of birdwings flapping overhead , the buzzing sound of bees flying by , or the whining of mosquitos seeking blood . All animals with flapping wings make these sounds , but the hummingbird makes perhaps the most delightful sound of all: their namesake hum . Yet , how hummingbirds hum is poorly understood . Bird wings generate large vortices of air to boost their lift and hover in the air that can generate tones . Further , the airflow over bird wings can be highly turbulent , meaning it can generate loud sounds , like the jets of air coming out of the engines of aircraft . Given all the sound-generating mechanisms at hand , it is difficult to determine why some wings buzz whereas others whoosh or hum . Hightower , Wijnings et al . wanted to understand the physical mechanism that causes animal wings to whine , buzz , hum or whoosh in flight . They hypothesized that the aerodynamic forces generated by animal wings are the main source of their characteristic wing sounds . Hummingbird wings have the most features in common with different animals’ wings , while also featuring acoustically complex feathers . This makes them ideal models for deciphering how birds , bats and even insects make wing sounds . To learn more about wing sounds , Hightower , Wijnings et al . studied how a species of hummingbird called Anna’s hummingbird hums while drinking nectar from a flower . A three-dimensional ‘acoustic hologram’ was generated using 2 , 176 microphones to measure the humming sound from all directions . In a follow-up experiment , the aerodynamic forces the hummingbird wings generate to hover were also measured . Their wingbeat was filmed simultaneously in slow-motion in both experiments . Hightower , Wijnings et al . then used a mathematical model that governs the wing’s aeroacoustics to confirm that the aerodynamic forces generated by the hummingbirds’ wings cause the humming sound heard when they hover in front of a flower . The model shows that the oscillating aerodynamic forces generate harmonics , which give the wings’ hum the acoustic quality of a musical instrument . Using this model Hightower , Wijnings et al . found that the differences in the aerodynamic forces generated by bird and insect wings cause the characteristic timbres of their whines , buzzes , hums , or whooshes . They also determined how these sounds scale with body mass and flapping frequency across 170 insect species and 80 bird species . This showed that mosquitos are unusually loud for their body size due to the unusual unsteadiness of the aerodynamic forces they generate in flight . These results explain why flying animals’ wings sound the way they do – for example , why larger birds are quieter and mosquitos louder . Better understanding of how the complex forces generated by animal wings create sound can advance the study of how animals change their wingbeat to communicate . Further , the model that explains how complex aerodynamic forces cause sound can help make the sounds of aerial robots , drones , and fans not only more silent , but perhaps more pleasing , like the hum of a hummingbird .
One of the most fundamental and unresolved questions in evolutionary biology is whether the outcomes of evolution are predictable . Is the diversity of life we see today the expected result of organisms adapting to their environment throughout history ( also known as natural selection ) or the product of random chance ? Or did chance events early in history shape the paths that evolution could take next , determining the biological forms that emerged under natural selection much later ? These questions are hard to study because evolution happened only once , long ago . To overcome this barrier , Xie , Pu , Metzger et al . developed an experimental approach that can evolve reconstructed ancestral proteins that existed deep in the past . Using this method , it is possible to replay evolution multiple times , from various historical starting points , under conditions similar to those that existed long ago . The end products of the evolutionary trajectories can then be compared to determine how predictable evolution actually is . Xie , Pu , Metzger et al . studied proteins belonging to the BCL-2 family , which originated some 800 million years ago . These proteins have diversified greatly over time in both their genetic sequences and their ability to bind to specific partner proteins called co-regulators . Xie , Pu , Metzger et al . synthesized BCL-2 proteins that existed at various times in the past . Each ancestral protein was then allowed to evolve repeatedly under natural selection to acquire the same co-regulator binding functions that evolved during history . At the end of each evolutionary trajectory , the genetic sequence of the resulting BCL-2 proteins was recorded . This revealed that the outcomes of evolution were almost completely unpredictable: trajectories initiated from the same ancestral protein produced proteins with very different sequences , and proteins launched from different ancestral starting points were even more dissimilar . Further experiments identified the mutations in each trajectory that caused changes in coregulator binding . When these mutations were introduced into other ancestral proteins , they did not yield the same change in function . This suggests that early chance events influenced each protein’s evolution in an unpredictable way by opening and closing the paths available to it in the future . This research expands our understanding of evolution on a molecular level whilst providing a new experimental approach for studying evolutionary drivers in more detail . The results suggest that BCL-2 proteins , in all their various forms , are unique products of a particular , unpredictable course of history set in motion by ancient chance events .
Our genomes contain a record of historical events . This is because when groups of people are separated for generations , the DNA sequence in the two groups’ genomes will change in different ways . Looking at the differences in the genomes of people from the same population can help researchers to understand and reconstruct the historical interactions that brought their ancestors together . The mixing of two populations that were previously separate is known as admixture . Africa as a continent has few written records of its history . This means that it is somewhat unknown which important movements of people in the past generated the populations found in modern-day Africa . Busby et al . have now attempted to use DNA to look into this and reconstruct the last 4000 years of genetic history in African populations . As has been shown in other regions of the world , the new analysis showed that all African populations are the result of historical admixture events . However , Busby et al . could characterize these events to unprecedented level of detail . For example , multiple ethnic groups from The Gambia and Mali all show signs of sharing the same set of ancestors from West Africa , Europe and Asia who mixed around 2000 years ago . Evidence of a migration of people from Central West Africa , known as the Bantu expansion , could also be detected , and was shown to carry genes to the south and east . An important next step will be to now look at the consequences of the observed gene-flow , and ask if it has contributed to spreading beneficial , or detrimental , mutations around Africa .
In the earliest stages of development , animal cells undergo multiple rounds of division without growth via a process known as mitosis . Over the course of just 12 rounds of cell division , a single fertilized egg is transformed into more than 4000 smaller cells . Before dividing , the cell must first replicate its chromosomes . A structure called the mitotic spindle then separates the members of each chromosome pair and distributes them evenly between the two daughter cells . Given that the daughter cells become smaller with each round of division , the spindle must also become smaller to ensure that the chromosomes are pulled apart an appropriate distance . However , it has been unclear how the cell achieves this . Now , Wilbur and Heald report insights into the mechanism by which spindle size is coordinated with cell size , using the model organism Xenopus laevis—a frog that produces large embryos that are easy to manipulate . They began by preparing extracts of cytoplasm from X . laevis embryos at two different developmental stages: one set of embryos contained 4 cells each and the other set contained ∼4000 cells . They found that the spindle , which is composed largely of microtubules—hollow filaments that can become longer or shorter through the addition or removal of tubulin building blocks—was almost twice as large in the four-cell embryos as in the more developed embryos . Moreover , spindle size was determined by the actions of two proteins: kif2a and importin-α . Binding of kif2a destabilized microtubules and caused them to shorten; importin-α blocked this process by binding to kif2a and preventing it from interacting with microtubules . Wilbur and Heald found that over the course of development , importin-α became increasingly localized to the cell membrane , meaning that there was less available to bind to kif2a in the cytoplasm . This freed up kif2a to interact with and destabilize microtubules , and led ultimately to a reduction in spindle size . Given that the overall ratio of cell surface membrane to cytoplasm increases as cells undergo division without growth , interaction between kif2a and importin-α could be the long-sought mechanism by which spindle and cell sizes are coordinated early in development .
Life on Earth is magnificently complex . The instructions to make this complexity are stored within the genes of living cells . For many genes , this process involves two steps . First , the cells copy , or transcribe , the information in the gene – which is part of a DNA molecule – into a more portable but shorter-lived molecule called RNA . The RNA can then be transported to other parts of a cell where its information is decoded to make a protein . Proteins are like molecular machines and making proteins is how many genes contribute to keeping life going . RNA molecules can fold into intricate shapes including structures called riboswitches . These are parts of an RNA molecule that can control how and when the RNA is used to make proteins . Riboswitches detect the presence of other chemicals inside a cell and respond by changing their shape . Binding to the right molecule will move a riboswitch from an “off” to an “on” position , or vice versa . Riboswitches can help to ensure that some proteins are only made when they are needed . For example , a protein that helps to make a certain chemical is only produced when that chemical is in short supply . Sherlock et al . have now studied riboswitches in a species of bacteria called Facklamia ignava . The investigation revealed a new riboswitch structure that detects phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate , or PRPP , which is a building block for RNA and , eventually , DNA molecules . Further examination revealed that these riboswitches are often linked to others that detect guanine molecules – another component of RNA and DNA . This double riboswitch is similar to a logic gate in computing , activating or shutting down protein production in response to changes in the concentrations of both PRPP and guanine . The findings of Sherlock et al . reveal a system where RNA controls its own production in response to the availability of two of its critical building blocks . This entirely RNA-dependent system adds weight to the so-called ‘RNA world’ hypothesis which suggests that the earliest forms of life on Earth depended solely on RNA . Molecules of RNA are able to store data like DNA while also behaving as molecular machines like proteins . This potentially helps to explain how the first life could have arisen from simple , non-living chemicals . Riboswitch systems like this are likely to be relics of this ancient time . Also , because they are involved in fundamental processes in living bacteria , riboswitch systems also provide potentially interesting targets for new antibiotics .
Our nervous system allows us to rapidly sense and respond to the world around us via cells called neurons that relay electrical signals around the brain and body . When an electrical impulse travelling along one neuron reaches a junction – called a synapse – with a neighboring neuron , it stimulates small containers known as vesicles from the first cell to release their contents into the synapse . These contents then travel across to the neighboring cell and may generate a new electrical impulse . The number of vesicles at a synapse that are ready to be released varies from one to ten . The more vesicles the neuron releases , the more likely the second cell will produce an electrical signal of its own . However , not all electrical signals reaching a synapse stimulate vesicles to be released and some signals only release a single vesicle . What determines how many vesicles are released by a single electrical signal ? Some vesicles have a higher likelihood of being released than others , but this “eagerness” does not always predict how many vesicles an individual synapse will actually discharge . Now , Vaden et al . have used brain tissue from mice to test an alternative possibility: the simple idea that the number of vesicles available at the synapse affects how many vesicles are released without altering their eagerness for release . Vaden et al . found that activating an enzyme called protein kinase A increased the number of vesicles released from synapses without changing how likely individual vesicles were to be released . Inhibiting protein kinase A also did not change individual vesicle’s eagerness to be released , but did decrease the number of vesicles that were discharged . Further experiments found that protein kinase A modifies a molecule on the surface of vesicles , known as synapsin , which controls the number of vesicles that are available for release . These findings show that the number of vesicles released at a synapse is controlled by two independently regulated parameters: the number of vesicles that are available , as well as how eager individual vesicles are to be released . The ability of neurons to communicate with each other is disrupted in autism spectrum disorders , Alzheimer’s disease and many other diseases . Learning how neurons communicate in healthy brains will help us understand what happens in the neurons of individuals with these conditions .
HIV-1 is the virus that causes AIDS – short for acquired immune deficiency syndrome – in humans . When HIV-1 infects a person , it targets cells of the immune system , which normally act to defend the body against infections . As the virus spreads from one immune cell to the next , it weakens the immune system so that individuals become more vulnerable to other illnesses . A cell infected with HIV-1 creates new virus particles at its surface and then releases the particles so that they can infect other cells . HIV-1 viruses encode their genetic information as molecules of ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) . However , the host cell also makes many other RNA molecules that do not contain virus genes so there must be a mechanism in place to ensure that the new virus particles only contain viral RNA . An HIV-1 protein called Gag is responsible for assembling new virus particles and several Gag proteins come together on the cell membrane to form a honeycomb-like structure called the immature lattice . However , it is not clear how Gag is able to select the right RNA molecules . To study how RNA is packaged into new HIV-1 particles , Carlson et al . used artificial versions of the cell membrane , viral RNA and the virus protein Gag to create a simple cell-free system . This system shows that all that is needed for viral RNA to be correctly packaged into new HIV-1 particles is for Gag to be attached to the cell membrane in such a way that the lattice forms correctly . Disturbing the immature lattice by altering the Gag proteins can result in a drastic loss of RNA selectivity . Further experiments show that other molecules in host cells called transfer RNAs enhance the ability of Gag to select the RNAs that encode virus genes . Carlson et al . ’s findings reveal a link between the formation of the Gag lattice and the packaging of virus genes into new virus particles . Drugs that inhibit this process could have the potential to be used as therapies against HIV-1 . A future challenge will be to re-create the entire process of HIV-1 assembly in a cell-free system , which would make it easier to develop new drugs that target the process .
