Messenger RNAs carry the instructions necessary to synthesize proteins that do work for the cell . Extending beyond the protein-coding sequence of a given mRNA is an additional stretch of sequence , harboring signals that govern how much protein is made and how long the mRNA remains in the cell before it is broken down . The incorporation of this end region into mature mRNA is itself subject to change; for the vast majority of human genes , how and why cells use different mRNA ends remains largely unknown . In this work , we surveyed mRNA ends from ∼10 , 000 genes in immune cells from genetically distinct human individuals . We found that mRNA end positions were not randomly distributed , but rather preferentially flanked the locations of regulatory signals that govern mRNA fate . The usage of these mRNA length forms and regulatory elements varied across individuals and could be dissected molecularly . Our results uncover key mechanisms and regulatory effects of transcript end processing , particularly as these are perturbed by genetic differences between humans .
Annually , more than two million people are infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS . Due to the ability of the virus to escape host immune responses , designing a successful HIV vaccine has been elusive . Similar to HIV in humans , rhesus macaques can be infected with SIV , a close relative and ancestor of HIV , resulting in simian AIDS . SIVΔnef , a live attenuated form of SIV , protects rhesus macaques from subsequent challenge with pathogenic SIV and is widely viewed as the most effective SIV vaccine . Here , we demonstrate that after vaccination of macaques with SIVΔnef , the immune response initially targets more variable regions of the virus , which the virus rapidly escapes . However , as the virus escapes , the immune response evolves to target more conserved regions of the virus as well as escape variants . This refocused targeting of conserved regions by the immune response provides a new mechanistic model that contributes to our understanding of how SIVΔnef vaccination protects animals from pathogenic challenge with SIV . Our findings also reinforce the importance of developing HIV vaccines that target conserved regions of the virus as well as their potential variants .
The opportunistic pathogen Candida albicans is a major risk factor for immunosuppressed individuals , and oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) is a frequent complication in patients with weakened cellular immunity . The cytokine interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) plays a critical role for antifungal host defense and was proposed to act by regulating neutrophil recruitment to the oral mucosa . However , although IL-17 can promote neutrophil trafficking in some situations , we recently showed in a mouse model that this is not the case during OPC . Thus , the mechanism governing the neutrophil response to C . albicans remained to be determined . Here , we demonstrate an essential role of IL-1 receptor ( IL-1R ) signaling in the recruitment of neutrophils from the circulation to the infected tissue via enhanced secretion of chemokines and increased output of neutrophils from the bone marrow . We found that IL-1α is released from keratinocytes upon invasion of C . albicans and acts on endothelial cells to induce the production of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) , a key trigger of emergency granulopoiesis . Thereby , IL-1R signaling translates the local response to the fungus in the oral mucosa into a systemic response that critically contributes to protection from infection .
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) , commonly known as ‘elephantiasis’ , is one of the world's most debilitating infectious diseases . In 83 countries worldwide , more than 1 . 3 billion people are at risk of infection with an estimated 120 million individuals already infected . A recent publication reviewing the health impact of the first 8 years of the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) demonstrated the enormous health benefits achieved in populations receiving annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) , as a result of infection prevented , disease progression halted , and ancillary treatment of co-infections . To date , however , no studies have estimated the economic value of these health benefits , either to the individuals or the societies afflicted with LF . Our study estimates that US$21 . 8 billion will be gained among individuals benefitting from just the first 8 years of the Global Programme , and an additional US$2 . 2 billion will be saved by the health systems of endemic countries . Treating endemic populations is possible at very low cost – particularly because of the generous drug donations from two pharmaceutical companies – but results in enormous economic benefits . Findings from this study yield a much clearer understanding the GPELF's full economic impact and strengthen the conviction that it is a ‘best buy’ in global health .
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by intraneuronal accumulation of alpha-synuclein ( α-syn ) called Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites . Recent genetic studies have revealed that mutations in glucocerebrosidase ( GBA ) , a causative gene of Gaucher disease ( GD ) , are a strong risk for PD . However , its pathological mechanisms leading to PD remain largely unknown . Here , we generated GBA nonsense mutant ( GBA-/- ) medaka which survive long enough for pathological analysis of disease progression . These mutant medaka display not only the phenotypes resembling human neuronopathic GD but also axonal accumulation of α-syn accompanied by impairment of the autophagy-lysosome pathway . Furthermore , the present study demonstrates this α-syn accumulation has negligible contribution to the pathogenesis of neuronopathic GD in medaka . GBA-/- medaka represent a valuable model for exploring the pathological mechanisms of PD with GBA mutations as well as neuronopathic GD , and our findings have important implications for the association of GBA mutations with PD .
Little is understood about how the immune system distinguishes between pathogenic and non-pathogenic microbes . Limiting or preventing infections by intracellular pathogens requires the activation of innate immunity and the consequent generation of effector and memory T cells , which recognize and kill infected cells . Investigators are currently testing attenuated versions of pathogenic microbes as vaccines in an attempt to generate pathogen-specific T cells without causing disease . Unfortunately , attenuated microbes often fail to elicit long-lived protective immunity . We hypothesized that attenuated bacterial vaccines do not immunize because they fail to activate a stimulatory arm of host innate immune receptors . However , we found that these attenuated bacterial vaccines are not simply prevented from activating immunity , but rather generate a negative signal that inhibits the desired immune response . These studies may explain why the addition of an adjuvant to ineffective vaccines does not necessarily improve immunogenicity . Furthermore , these studies provide a framework for the development of attenuated vaccines that do not inhibit the desired immune responses .
Primary open angle glaucoma is a blinding disease for which there is currently no cure , only treatments that may slow its progress . To help understand the mechanisms of this disease and to design more effective treatments , we identified previously a locus , SIX6 , that increases the risk of glaucoma . This gene is involved in early eye development and helps to form the retina . In this paper , we test specific sequence variants in SIX6 that are found in glaucoma patients . We show that these variants have a reduced function that interferes with their ability to direct proper formation of the retina . One variant in particular is common , and may be the main reason that this gene is important in the glaucoma disease process . Patients who have two copies of this sequence variant show a change in the structure of their eye consistent with fewer neurons that carry the visual signal to the brain . These neurons typically die as people age , and people who begin life with fewer visual neurons may have an increased risk of glaucoma . Additional research in this topic may lead to new treatments that preserve sight .
Clostridium difficile is a bacterial pathogen that causes antibiotic associated diarrheal disease . Colonization of host tissues is a prerequisite step to disease development during bacterial infection . C . difficile produces flagella , which are proteinaceous structures on the bacterial surface that confer motility and participate in adherence to the host intestine . SigD , a regulator that coordinates flagellar gene expression , also activates expression of the toxin genes in C . difficile . Therefore , mechanisms controlling expression of flagellar genes , including sigD , will likely impact the severity of C . difficile infection given the impact on toxin production . In this body of work , we identified a genetic ON/OFF switch , which we term the “flagellar switch” , encoded upstream of the flagellar genes . The orientation of the flagellar switch determines whether or not C . difficile produce flagella , engage in swimming motility , and secrete toxins . We identified the enzyme that catalyzes inversion of the flagellar switch . Inactivation of the corresponding gene resulted in bacteria with the flagellar switch locked in the either the ON or OFF orientation , with concomitant effects on flagellum and toxin biosynthesis . The flagellar switch may represent a new regulatory strategy to coordinately control virulence determinants independent of previously described regulators .
Endospores , as those formed by the anaerobic Clostridial species , the aerobic Bacillus and related organisms , are highly resilient dormant cell types . Endospore development has been extensively studied in Bacillus subtilis . The process starts with an asymmetric division that forms a larger mother cell and a smaller forespore . Gene expression in these two cells is primarily governed by four cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma factors , two active sequentially in the mother cell and two active sequentially in the forespore . The precise timing of sigma factor activation is coordinated between the mother cell and forespore by several mechanisms . By combining studies of gene expression at the single cell level with the phenotypic characterization of mutants for the sigma genes , we describe the regulation of gene expression during endospore development by the intestinal pathogen C . difficile . In this organism , the endospore is the vehicle for transmission and persistence in the host and the environment . The overall picture that emerges is of a developmental program in which the coordination of gene expression between the forespore and mother cell is less tight than in B . subtilis , in what may be a general feature of endospore formation in the more ancient Clostridia group of bacteria .
A large number of proteins in the cell are modified post-translationally by phosphorylation at multiple specific locations . This can help bring about interesting dynamical behaviors such as bistability or all-or-none responses to stimuli . Such behaviors are in turn important for cellular decision-making , differentiation , or the regulation of cellular processes . In this paper we propose the use of a specific technique for modeling allosteric multisite proteins , which can be thought of as the reduced version of a more detailed set of reactions . After validating this technique computationally by comparison to more detailed systems , we apply it to a new model of a signal transduction pathway with several multisite proteins . The model is concerned with a mechanism in budding yeast that is thought to measure the extent of daughter bud growth and send a signal to initiate mitosis when sufficient growth has occurred . Using the given framework we derive an analytically tractable model that creates the desired all-or-none signal . Overall , we give quantitative support to a newly discovered biochemical pathway , and we show the utility of the new modeling framework in the context of a realistic biological problem .
Quorum sensing is a mechanism by which bacterial cells communicate within a population . One particular form of communication in E . coli is through a universal signaling molecule known as autoinducer 2 . Although the importance of this form of cell-cell interaction has been recognized in the formation of biofilms and virulent infections , the mechanisms by which this form of communication is regulated is still not well understood . In this paper , we presented a method of unraveling these mechanisms by using a combination of experimental work and mathematical models . We took apart the network architecture and isolated the different components . The examination of these isolated sub-networks provided us with a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms that control and regulate bacterial quorum sensing . We were also able to predict new network interactions with the help of our mathematical models . This bottom up approach , combined with our modeling efforts , proved effective in unraveling the mechanisms of quorum sensing in E . coli .
Despite the progress made in the last decade , malaria remains a serious public health issue in sub-Saharan region , where it overlaps with helminths infections . The interactions between both are manifold and complex , requiring further investigation . We report here that Trichuris trichiura or hookworm associated with schistosomiasis increase the risk of Plasmodium falciparum infection; whilst schistosomiasis is independently associated with a malaria increase in young children , but not in the older children . Our finding is an additional evidence that optimizing helminth control mainly in children contributes to overcoming malaria in areas endemic for both parasitic infections where children are those who bear the highest burden of these infections .
Inflammation is essential for inducing , sustaining , and regulating CD8+ T cell responses . The transcription factor IRF-5 is mainly responsible for initiating the inflammatory response following experimental Leishmani donovani infection . IRF-5 activates several genes encoding key pro-inflammatory cytokines , such as IL-6 and TNF . In this study , we investigate the role of IRF-5-mediated inflammation in regulating antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses during L . donovani infection . Our data demonstrate that the inflammatory response induced by IRF-5 limits the expansion CD8+ T cell . This negative effect is mediated by the induction of HIF-1α in dendritic cells . Indeed , we observed a significant increase in CD8+ T cell expansion in mice lacking HIF-1α expression in dendritic cells . Moreover , these mice had a significantly lower parasite burden in the spleen , suggesting that induction of HIF-1α may represent an immune evasive mechanism adopted by Leishmania parasites to establish persistent infections .
In contrast to other clinical presentations of leishmaniasis in Latin America , American visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) can lead to death in 5-10% of patients under treatment . The fatality rates associated with this disease have remained stable at a high level over the years in Brazil and are neither recorded in under-treatment patients from endemic countries of the Old World nor from non-endemic countries where such cases are imported . Since VL-induced lethality can occur even after the implementation of recommended therapy , the understanding of individual , clinical and laboratory factors that predispose to an unfavorable outcome might represent an important feature for informing better practice in the clinical management of cases . The present systematic review with meta-analysis brings together information on various prognostic variables associated with the severity of VL . Potential predictors identified in the studies surveyed were grouped according to the strength of evidence available , and 13 were considered to be of significant relevance . The gaps in the existing knowledge and the need for the development of externally validated prognostic models were also discussed . The results presented herein could be useful in identifying patients at higher risk of unfavorable evolution or death from VL , and might provide an aid in decision-making regarding the clinical management of VL cases .
In Algeria , the treatment of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniases ( VL and CL ) has been and continues to be based on antimony-containing drugs . It is suspected that high drug selective pressure might favor the emergence of chemoresistant parasites . Within the framework of knowledge about the epidemiology of VL and CL amassed during the last 30 years , we sampled Leishmania isolates to analyze their susceptibility to antimony . The epidemiological cutoff ( ECOFF ) that allowed us to differentiate between Leishmania species causing cutaneous or visceral leishmanioses that were susceptible ( S+ ) or insusceptible ( S- ) to the trivalent form of antimony was determined . The computed IC50 cutoff values were 23 . 83 μg/mL and 15 . 91 μg/mL for VL and CL , respectively . We report a trend of increasing antimony susceptibility of VL isolates during the 30-year period . In contrast , an increase in the frequency of S- phenotypes in isolates causing CL was observed during the same period . The emergence of these S- phenotypes appears to correlate with the appearance of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L . killicki ( syn: L . tropica ) . We highlight the need for the future implementation of an effective methodology to determine the antimony resistance status of Leishmania isolates to detect the emergence of and prevent the dissemination of drug-resistant srains .
Western societies have a disproportionately high rate of inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) , with growing incidence especially in the adolescent population . A large body of evidence supports the view that bacteria in the gut participate in the pathophysiology of human bowel diseases . The unifying concept is chronic inflammation that is driven by microbial stimulation of the mucosal immune system . However , the mechanisms by which pathogenic or commensal microbes work in concert with each other and with host responses to perpetuate this inflammation is not well known . Adherent-invasive E . coli ( AIEC ) are Crohn’s disease ( CD ) -associated bacteria that are implicated in disease pathology . AIEC are pro-inflammatory and may play a central role in maintaining chronic inflammation in response to other CD risk factors , such as acute infectious gastroenteritis . Here , we show that indeed , acute infectious gastroenteritis creates an inflammatory environment in the gut that drives AIEC expansion and worsens disease severity . The increase in disease severity strictly correlates with this AIEC bloom because blocking this bloom by sensitizing AIEC to host defenses also improves the health status of the host . The long time period between recovery from acute gastroenteritis and new onset CD may allow for targeted interventions to mitigate the risk of CD in AIEC-positive individuals .
The selection and specification of the egg cell determine the number of eggs produced by an animal or plant , which in turn dictates how many offspring that organism can produce . In most higher plants , the egg cell forms in a specialized structure consisting of four different cell types . Two cells , the egg cell and the central cell , are fertilized by sperm cells and develop into the embryo proper and the nutritive tissue ( endosperm ) , respectively . These two gametic cells are flanked by accessory cells; but why do some cells become gametic while others differentiate into accessory cells ? To answer this question , we looked for mutants in which this process is disturbed . In the lachesis mutant , accessory cells become extra egg cells . Interestingly , it seems that the misspecification of these accessory cells results from defects in the gametic cells . This suggests that accessory cells monitor the state of the gametic cells to act as a backup if required , ensuring the formation of the key reproductive cells .
Consistently wearing shoes may help in preventing onset or progression of a wide range of Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) . This study assessed the factors that influenced shoe wearing behaviors among people living in a rural community in highland Ethiopia . In this community , a substantial proportion of people are at risk for podoconiosis , a debilitating lower leg condition that can be prevented by wearing shoes . We conducted semi-structured individual interviews , focus group discussions and extended case studies among 242 adults and systematically analyzed the information . We found that shoe wearing is intermittent , and that different factors such as cost and ability to use the shoes for certain activities ( such as farming ) influenced consistent shoe wearing for most people . Some factors ( such as shoe size , fear of stigma ) were more relevant for podoconiosis patients . Social norms were found to be increasingly supportive of shoe wearing , and children exhibited greater desire to wear shoes than adults . These findings have relevance for preventing development and progression of a variety of NTDs in a range of settings .
Alpha herpesviruses are common mammalian pathogens ( e . g . herpes simplex and chickenpox virus infect humans ) . These viruses enter and spread in and out of the mammalian nervous system , a defining hallmark of their lifecycle and potential pathogenesis . Neurons are polarized cells , and the movement of certain cellular proteins is highly restricted to the cell body , to dendrites , or to axons . Indeed , the axon harbors only a small subset of neuronal proteins . Thus , it is remarkable that these viruses efficiently gather and move their structural components from the cell body to the axon after infection of neurons . Previously , we identified a small viral membrane protein ( known as Us9 ) that mediates the efficient targeting of virus particles to axons of infected neurons . We now report that Us9 must localize to “lipid raft” domains , specialized regions within cellular membranes to promote axonal targeting . Reducing the affinity of Us9 for lipid rafts dramatically reduces sorting of structural proteins to axons . This is the first report , to our knowledge , to implicate lipid rafts in targeting alpha herpesvirus structural proteins to axons , an essential step for spread of infection in the mammalian nervous system .
Nongenetic heterogeneity exists when a trait differs among individuals that have identical genotypes and environments . A clonal population can maximize its long-term success in an uncertain environment by diversifying its phenotypes via nongenetic heterogeneity: the currently unfavored ones may become the favored ones when conditions change . Nongenetic heterogeneity has clinical relevance . For example , populations of tumor cells or infectious microbes show cell-to-cell differences in growth and in drug or stress tolerance . This heterogeneity hampers efficient treatment and can potentiate harmful evolution of a tumor or pathogen . We show that in budding yeast , heterogeneity in intracellular cyclic AMP levels acting through the conserved Ras/cAMP/protein kinase A ( PKA ) pathway and its target transcription factors , Msn2 and Msn4 , underlies the nongenetic heterogeneity of both single-cell growth rate and acute heat-stress tolerance . Perturbations of this pathway significantly affect population survival upon acute heat stress . These results illuminate a mechanism of nongenetic heterogeneity and suggest the potential value of antitumor or antifungal treatment strategies that target nongenetic heterogeneity to render the tumor or pathogen population more uniformly susceptible to a second drug that aims to kill .
Chikungunya virus is a re-emerging and rapidly spreading arbovirus that has caused several outbreaks in the last decade with the most recent in the Caribbean islands and the Americas beginning in 2013 infecting over 1 million individuals . The ability to monitor such epidemics would be enhanced by characterizing the viral populations that circulate within infected individuals . To do this , we deep-sequenced viral populations from infected individuals and identified minority variants present at high frequencies , as well as the presence of a novel 3’ untranslated genome region ( UTR ) structure , a key determinant of chikungunya virus infectivity and evolution never before described in nature . Finally , we genetically engineered an infectious clone from this outbreak strain and established that the novel 3’UTR structure increases viral replication in mosquito cells . Taken together these studies highlight the vast diversity of viral populations in infected individuals , reveal potential novel determinants of chikungunya virus biology , and provide an indispensable tool for future studies involved in viral evolution and adaptation .
Cell growth is a fundamental aspect of cell behavior in all organisms . The mTOR signaling pathways are essential for cell growth and clinically mis-regulation of the mTOR pathways are implicated in human diseases including tumor formation , obesity , epilepsy , autism and neurodegeneration . Here , we identify a novel gene , Ubtor as a functional player in regulating cell growth and mTOR signaling . Inhibiting Ubtor function promotes cell growth in neurons and cancer cells . Increasing Ubtor function reduces cancer cell growth . Functional analyses in human cells and the zebrafish model indicate Ubtor inhibits mTOR signaling by stabilizing the mTOR complex component DEPTOR , and ubtor gene disruption resulted in higher mTOR activity and aggravated cancer formation in the zebrafish . UBTOR depletion promotes tumor growth and mTOR signaling in xenograft-bearing mice . Thus our study provide evidence that Ubtor constitutes a novel negative feedback mechanism to control mTOR signaling and cell growth , and manipulations of Ubtor function may potentially be utilized to optimize mTOR signaling activities for treatments of cancers and other diseases .
Due to high evolutionary divergence of trypanosomatid pathogens from other eukaryotes , accurate prediction of functional roles for most of their proteins is not feasible based on homology-based approaches . Although protein co-complex maps provide a compelling tool for the functional annotation of proteins , as subunits of a complex are expected to be involved in similar biological processes , the current knowledge about these maps is still rudimentary . Here , we systematically examined the protein co-complex membership of more than one third of T . brucei proteome using two orthogonal fractionation approaches . A high-confidence network of co-complex relationships predicts the network context of 866 proteins , including many hypothetical and experimentally unannotated proteins . To our knowledge , this study presents the largest proteomics-based interaction map of trypanosomatid parasites to date , providing a useful resource for formulating new biological hypothesises and further experimental leads .
Since tuberculosis is commonly considered a chronic lung disease , most studies in tuberculosis focus on the lungs while lymph nodes are almost always depicted only as sites of antigen presentation and immune activation . However , lymph nodes are among the most frequently infected sites of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) aside from the lungs . The effect of Mtb infection and how lymph nodes respond to Mtb infection is currently unknown . To investigate this , we examined the lymph nodes of two macaque species , cynomolgus and rhesus macaques , at different time points after Mtb infection . We found that overall lymph nodes are not effective killers of Mtb; the lymph nodes of rhesus macaques being less effective at killing Mtb than cynomolgus macaques . Mtb infection also resulted in the destruction of the lymph node structure and this was associated with increased bacterial burden . After a short course of anti-TB drug therapy , the reduction in bacterial burden was lower in lymph nodes compared to lung granulomas . Our data show that aside from being sites of antigen presentation and immune activation , lymph nodes are also niches of Mtb growth and persistence .
Microsporidia are microbial parasites that live inside their host cells and can cause disease in humans and many other animals . The small nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a convenient model host for studying microsporidian infections . In this work , we sample Caenorhabditis and other small nematodes and 47 associated microsporidian strains from the wild . We characterize the parasites for their position in the evolutionary tree of microsporidia and for their lifecycle and morphology . We find several new species and genera , especially some that are distantly related to the previously known Nematocida parisii and instead closely related to human pathogens . We find that some of these species have a narrow host range . We studied two species in detail using electron microscopy and uncover a new likely mode of exit from the host cell , by budding off the host cell plasma membrane rather than by fusion of a vesicle to the plasma membrane as in N . parisii . We also find a new species that infects the epidermis and muscles of Caenorhabditis rather than the host intestinal cells and is closely related to human pathogens . Finally , we find that one Nematocida species fails to elicit the same host response that other Nematocida species do . These new microsporidia open up many windows into microsporidia biology and opportunities to investigate host-parasite coevolution in the C . elegans system .
G protein coupled chemokine receptors are proteins embedded in the cell membrane . They play essential roles in the human immune system . Moreover , chemokine receptors are also involved in various diseases including cancer metastasis and HIV infection leading to AIDS . In case of the chemokine receptors CXCR4 , CCR5 , and CCR2 , recent studies revealed that the proteins associate to so-called dimers , consisting of two receptors . This dimerization was shown to regulate protein function . Consequently , the association of chemokine receptors increasingly gained attention for modern drug design . However , structural information about chemokine receptor dimers is scarce due to experimental limitations . Here , we present first atomistic insight into chemokine receptor dimer structures consisting of either two equal receptors ( homodimers ) or of two different receptors ( heterodimers ) . To this end , we employed thousands of molecular dynamics simulations of the receptor association process . The simulations revealed similar homodimerization patterns for the closely related receptors CCR5 and CCR2 , and pinpointed the dimerization hotspots on both proteins . Cholesterol was found to differentiate the association patterns between CXCR4 and the related CC chemokine receptors , indicating that both heterodimerization and the interplay with cholesterol play important roles in fine-tuning chemokine-related signaling pathways .
Systemic leishmaniasis is known to have in general two types of clinical presentations . The classical form is a full fledged disease characterized by fever , severe weight loss , enlargement of lymph organs and anemia . It renders patients very sick and is sometimes fatal . The second form , known as sub-clinical leishmaniasis , is a milder disorder . Although it presents with symptoms analogous to the ones classically associated with this infection , they are far less severe and certainly fewer in number . In this report , we are describing a third type of presentation , which is distinct from the above described . The hallmark of this third type of clinical form is depressed immunity . A number of patients suffering from repeated infections affecting various body organs and systems ( skin , respiratory , and alimentary ) were referred to us for advanced immune function testing . We were able to identify in a fraction of these patients Leishmania parasites . Upon appropriate treatment , these patients recovered . Systemic leishmaniasis was thus the culprit of their repeated episodes of falling ill . Hence our recommendation in this report is to consider the diagnosis of systemic leishmaniasis in patients suffering from signs and symptoms indicating depressed immunity ( repeated episodes of fever or infections ) .
There exists a superabundance of human sequence variations . Testing every sequence variant for association with human disease is often infeasible , as studies must be very large—and hence expensive—to overcome the statistical penalties used to control for multiple tests . A common alternative is to assay only a subset of sequence variants for which there are prior reasons to believe they may be disease-causing . Sequence variants that change conserved amino acids , for example , are often disease-causing . As an adjunct to this approach , we have explored the potential of variants that occur at homologous positions within paralogous human proteins as a means of identifying disease-causing DNA sequence variations . We find that DNA sequence variants co-occur at aligned amino acid pairs more frequently than expected by chance , suggesting that similar functional constraints on paralogous proteins result in coordinated distributions of variants along their lengths . Moreover , if one member of a variant-pair is disease-causing , its partner is likely to be disease-causing as well . These facts provide new avenues for the identification of disease-causing sequence variations .
Infection by Plasmodium falciparum—the parasite responsible for malaria in humans—can result in a severe disease that can be fatal or in an uncomplicated disease that can be resolved by the host immune system . However , whether the parasites causing severe disease differ from those causing uncomplicated disease is unknown . Several strands of evidence have suggested that parasites causing severe disease may express a restricted set of the Plasmodium falciparum Erythrocyte Membrane Protein 1 ( PfEMP1 ) proteins . PfEMP1 proteins are expressed on the surface of the infected red blood cells and elicit protective immunity . We compared the transcriptomes of parasites causing severe and uncomplicated malaria to determine whether these parasites differed in the genes they expressed . We found that the parasites causing severe malaria had altered expression of genes involved in basic metabolism , nuclear processes , and surface expression of PfEMP1 . The parasites causing severe malaria had up-regulated expression of a set of PfEMP1 proteins . Some of these PfEMP1s had been previously implicated in severe malaria , lending support to our data . Multiple associations identified between severe malaria and expressed PfEMP1 sequences were novel . These novel , severe disease–associated PfEMP1 sequences could be useful for informing design of vaccines targeting severe malaria disease .
AAV-mediated antibody delivery represents a promising alternative to classical vaccine approaches for the prevention of HIV/AIDS in humans . We used recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors ( rAAV ) as gene carrier to deliver anti-SIV ( simian immunodeficiency virus ) antibodies to monkeys . This non-classical immunization approach is independent of the host immune system and the AAV-transferred gene into muscle cells produces antibodies with known specificities . Our goal was to determine what serum levels of delivered antibodies can be achieved by using two different vector strategies , whether the delivered antibodies provoke an immune response , and to what degree the delivered non-neutralizing antibodies have the ability to protect against SIV virus challenge . This approach allowed for sustained levels of delivered antibodies in serum and exhibited significant protective effects against highly pathogenic SIVmac239 challenge . However , immune responses limited the concentration of circulating antibodies that could be achieved . This problem will need to be understood and overcome for the promise of this approach to be effectively realized .
Biological cells use a variety of molecular machines representing enzymes , ion channels or pumps , and motors . Motor proteins are nanometer-size devices generating forces and actively moving or rotating under the supply of chemical energy through ATP hydrolysis . They are crucial for many cell functions and promising for nanotechnology of the future . Although such motors represent single molecules , their operation cycles cannot be followed in detail in simulations even on the best modern supercomputers and some approximations need to be employed . It is often assumed that conformational dynamics of motor proteins is well described within a linear response approximation and corresponds to excitation of normal modes . We have checked this assumption for two motor proteins , myosin V and kinesin KIF1A . Our results show that , while both these biomolecules respond by well-defined motions to energetic excitations , these motions are essentially nonlinear . The effect is particularly pronounced in KIF1A where relaxation proceeds through a sequence of qualitatively different conformational changes , which may facilitate complex functional motions without additional control mechanisms .
Endocytosis is the process that allows cells to take up molecules from the environment . Several endocytic pathways exist in mammalian cells . While the best understood endocytic pathway uses clathrin , recent years have seen a great increase in our understanding of clathrin-independent endocytic pathways . Here we characterize the crosstalk between caveolae , flask-shaped specialized microdomains present at the plasma membrane , and a second clathrin-independent pathway , the CLIC/GEEC Cdc42-regulated endocytic pathway . These pathways are segregated in migrating cells with caveolae at the rear and CLIC/GEEC endocytosis at the leading edge . Here we find that specific caveolar proteins , caveolins and cavins , can also negatively regulate the CLIC/GEEC pathway . With the help of several techniques , including quantitative electron microscopy analysis and real-time live-cell imaging , we demonstrate that expression of caveolar proteins affects early carrier formation , causes cellular lipid changes , and changes the activity of the key regulator of the CLIC/GEEC pathway , Cdc42 . The functional consequences of loss of caveolar proteins on the CLIC/GEEC pathway included inhibition of polarized cell migration and increased endocytosis in tissue explants .
Two-Component Signaling ( TCS ) systems are a primary means by which bacteria sense their constantly changing external environment . For pathogens , these relays are key to their host survival . A typical TCS pair consists of a sensor protein , which upon an environmental stimulation will initiate a cellular response by transferring a phosphate group onto a crucial aspartate amino acid within a secondary receiver ( REC ) protein . However , more recently it has come to light that some REC proteins are missing key amino acids involved in this signaling relay process , including the aspartate residue required for the signaling relay , hinting that a subset of REC proteins might function in different ways . Here we use custom programing to extract all deposited Aspartate-Less Receivers ( ALRs ) for further examination . Surprisingly , we found that on average there are two ALRs present in every microbial species , making them a significant portion of the bacterial signaling family . Combining computational data with structural , biochemical and genetic examination of a founding member of the ALR family , Repressor of Iron Transport Regulator ( RitR ) from the human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae , we demonstrate that ALRs might have evolved to accommodate more diverse environmental signals , while largely retaining their time-tested ancestral post-input signaling mechanisms .
There is increasing interest in oncolytic viruses ( OVs ) , following the approval of OncovexGM-CSF , and the success of a number of them in clinical trials . Most OVs , particularly the oHSVs , are attenuated to varying degree . In contrast , the tropism-retargeted oHSVs are fully-virulent , highly effective oncolytic agents , and appear to be highly safe in mice . Up to now , it was unknown how efficacious the retargeted oHSVs are as immunotherapeutic agents . Here , the demonstration that they elicit local immune response and systemic therapy vaccine effects opens the possibility that the fully-virulent retargeted oHSVs may be highly efficacious oncolytic-immunotherapeutic agents .
Development of a safe and efficacious HIV vaccine is a critical global health priority . Recombinant viral vectors are an important platform for HIV vaccine delivery . Recent clinical trials testing candidate HIV vaccines based on Ad5 vectors failed and reported excess HIV infections in some vaccine recipients , underscoring the necessity to investigate HIV susceptibility of viral vector-specific CD4 T cells in HIV vaccination . By using PBMC samples from clinical trials that examined two important HIV vaccine vectors ( canarypox viral vector ALVAC and human Ad5 vector ) , we here report that compared to Ad5 vector , the ALVAC-specific CD4 T cells are more resistant to HIV infection , providing evidence for distinct HIV susceptibility of CD4 T-cell populations induced by different HIV vaccine vectors . Our findings present new insights into our understanding of HIV vaccine-induced immunity and help improve the design and immune assessment of viral vectors for the development of HIV vaccines .
With the exception of its most primitive members , mammal species practice X inactivation , where one copy of each X chromosome pair is silenced in each cell of the female body . The particular copy of the X that is silenced nevertheless shows considerable variability among species , and the evolutionary causes for this variability remain unclear . Here , we show that X inactivation strategies are likely to evolve in response to the sex-differential fitness properties of X-linked genetic variation . Genetic variation with similar effects on male and female fitness will generally favor the evolution of random X inactivation , potentially including preferential inactivation of the maternally inherited X chromosome . Variation with opposing fitness effects in each sex ( “sexually antagonistic” variation , which includes mutations that both decrease female fitness and enhance male fitness ) selects for preferential or complete inactivation of the paternally inherited X . Paternally biased X inactivation patterns appear to be common in nature , which suggests that sexually antagonistic genetic variation might be an important factor underlying the evolution of X inactivation . The theory provides a conceptual framework for understanding the evolution of X inactivation strategies and generates several novel predictions that may soon be tested with modern genome sequencing technologies .
In addition to innate and adaptive immunities , many cellular proteins also exert antiviral activity against viral invasion . Human zinc-finger antiviral protein ( ZAP ) is a cellular restriction factor against many viruses but its role with regard to the flavivirus family is largely unknown . We tested the antiviral potential of ZAP against three flaviviruses and found that Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) was ZAP-sensitive , while dengue virus and Zika virus were ZAP-resistant . ZAP specifically targets JEV viral RNA and induces translation repression and RNA degradation . Our findings highlight the ZAP-mediated anti-JEV mechanisms and extend the antiviral spectrum of ZAP to include a member of the Flavivirus genus .
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a deadly virus that is found primarily in sub-Saharan Africa . However , mosquitoes that are capable of transmitting RVFV have a worldwide distribution . RVF affects a broad range of animal species and is known to cause encephalitis or hemorrhagic fever in humans with survivors having long-term health effects such as a loss of vision . There is no vaccine currently approved for use in humans . In this study we evaluated the host response to infection with either a RVFV vaccine strain or a wild-type strain to identify similarities or differences that could be exploited for development of therapeutics or improved vaccines . While mice infected with the vaccine strain did not develop disease and survived , infection with the wild-type strain caused severe disease with a fatal outcome . Analyzing multiple clinical factors and the host immune response over the course of infection allowed us to identify potential host factors associated with disease progression during wild-type virus infection . This work also provides support for a current vaccine candidate , MP-12 , in demonstrating a limited and protective host response to infection .
Breast cancers are divided into several different subtypes according to the expression of three receptors: estrogen receptor ( ER ) , progesterone receptor ( PR ) , and human epidermal receptor 2 ( HER2 ) . One subtype of breast cancer is known as triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) because of lack of expression of all three receptors . TNBC is highly malignant and susceptible to developing drug resistance during chemotherapy . However , the reasons for resistance have not been well explained . We found that a secretory protein called C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 ( CCL20 ) responds to taxane chemotherapy in TNBC and promotes the expression of a drug efflux pump through a specific signaling pathway ( CCL20-protein kinase Cζ [PKCζ]/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase [MAPK]-nuclear factor kappa B [NF-κB]-ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1 [ABCB1] ) . Increasing levels of CCL20 result in expanding breast cancer stem-like cell population and chemotherapeutic resistance in breast cancer cells . Breast cancer stem-like cells are a special population of cells with self-renewal and differentiation potential within the tumor , which are often the culprit of tumor reoccurrence , drug resistance , and metastasis . Our results suggest that blocking CCL20 or its downstream signal can significantly improve the therapeutic efficacy of TNBC .
Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite capable of infecting virtually all warm-blooded animals , including humans . Toxoplasma’s ability to manipulate and persist in the host is due in part to its secretion of effector proteins into the host cell . Some of these effector proteins , such as GRA16 and GRA24 , must cross the vacuolar membrane that the parasite replicates within during intracellular infection to reach the host cell cytosol; however , the proteins that mediate this effector transport are largely unknown . We previously identified a cleaved protein , MYR1 , that is essential for effector transport . To identify other proteins that are involved in this process , we screened Toxoplasma mutants that are unable to induce c-Myc up-regulation in the host for their ability to transport GRA16 and GRA24 across the vacuolar membrane . Here we identify two novel proteins , MYR2 and MYR3 , that are essential for effector transport . These proteins co-localize with MYR1 in the PV space and membrane and are membrane-associated . Furthermore , MYR3 stably associates with MYR1 . These results indicate that MYR1 and MYR3 form a complex involved in the transport of key effectors .
Papillomavirus genome replication occurs during three distinct stages that are linked to the differentiation state of the infected epithelium . The viral proteins E1 and E2 recognize the viral origin and initiate a process that attracts host DNA replication factors . The origin recognition complex ( ORC ) coordinates initiation of chromosome duplication . While ORC2 binds to the E2 protein , its depletion does not impair PV genome replication . Instead , depletion of ORC2 stimulates viral replication , while over-expression of E2 protein decreases ORC2 occupancy at mammalian origins . We propose that the relative abundance of E2 and ORC2 in complex regulates viral and cellular origin licensing .
Central Asia continues to be a hotspot for brucellosis among humans and livestock . The WHO classifies brucellosis as a neglected zoonosis that is rarely in the spotlight for research and mainly affects poor , marginalized people . One of the most powerful megatrends of our time is urbanization , and an often forgotten consequence of human urbanization is the urbanization of their livestock . When large concentrations of humans and livestock build up in urban areas , there is a concern that the transmission of zoonoses like brucellosis will increase . Our results indicate that Brucella DNA is widespread in dairy milk in the urban and peri-urban area of Dushanbe , the capital of Tajikistan . This could constitute a public health risk because consumption of raw dairy products is common in the region . Furthermore , a discrepancy between the results of serology and PCR suggests that implementing complementary diagnostic strategies to detect false serological negative individuals might be warranted in Brucella control programmes .
Genome and chromosome stability are essential to maintain normal cell function and viability . However , differences in genome and chromosome structure are frequently found in organisms that undergo rapid adaptation to changing environmental conditions , and in humans are often found in cancer cells . We study genome instability in a fungal pathogen that exhibits a high degree of genetic diversity . Regions that show extraordinary diversity in this pathogen are the transposon-rich accessory chromosomes , which contain few genes that are of unknown benefit to the organism but maintained in the population and thus considered “quasi-essential” . Accessory chromosomes in all fungi studied so far are enriched with markers for heterochromatin , namely trimethylation of H3 lysine 9 and 27 ( H3K9me3 , H3K27me3 ) . We show that loss of these heterochromatin marks has strong but opposing effects on genome stability . While loss of the transposon-associated mark H3K9me3 destabilizes the entire genome , presence of H3K27me3 favors instability of accessory chromosomes . Our study provides insight into the relationship between chromatin and genome stability and why some regions are more susceptible to genetic diversity than others .
Rapid delivery of post-exposure vaccination is essential for preventing the fatal onset of rabies in persons bitten by rabid animals . But for communities most at risk of exposure to rabies ( in resource poor countries where domestic dog rabies is still common ) , post-exposure vaccines are often not affordable and are only available in limited quantities . Several safe and effective regimens for delivery of these vaccines are recommended by WHO , but these are inconsistently implemented and there are no clear recommendations as to which is the best regimen for specific settings . We developed a framework for comparing the cost-effectiveness of different vaccination regimens , including existing approved regimens and new candidates subject to approval , in terms of costs per death averted . We demonstrate that post-exposure vaccination is an extremely cost-effective public health intervention and that changing delivery from intramuscular to intradermal vaccination has considerable benefits . Large savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients could potentially both mitigate vaccine shortages and reduce delays in delivery , enabling wider vaccine distribution , and thus improving the accessibility and affordability of these life-saving vaccines . We also present financing mechanisms that could help subsidize the cost for those most in need , and even support new and existing rabies control and prevention programs , without compromising existing healthcare budgets .
Toxoplasma is an obligate intracellular pathogen that multiplies in mammalian cells within a specialized compartment , named the parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) . While the vacuole does not fuse with host organelles , the parasite scavenges nutrients , including lipids , from these compartments . Present in all mammalian cells , lipid droplets ( LD ) are dynamic structures that store neutral lipids . Whether Toxoplasma targets host LD for their nutritional content remains to be investigated . We demonstrate that the parasite relies on host LD lipids and their lipolytic enzymatic activities to grow . Toxoplasma salvages lipids from host LD , which surround the PV and , at least partially , accesses these lipids by intercepting and engulfing within the PV host Rab7-associated LD . In the PV lumen , a parasite lipase releases lipids from host LD , thus making them available to the parasite . Exogenous addition of fatty acids stimulates host LD biogenesis and results in the accumulation of enlarged LD containing neutral lipids in Toxoplasma . This study highlights the ability of Toxoplasma to scavenge and store lipids from host LD . Interestingly , exposure of Toxoplasma to excess lipids reveals , for the first time , coated invaginations of the parasite’s plasma membrane and cytoplasmic vesicles containing lipids originating from the PV lumen , potentially involved in endocytosis .
Despite the widespread prevalence of liver fluke infections and many efforts aimed at developing a preventive vaccine just one drug , triclabendazole , is effective in killing all parasite stages . This is aggravated by the increasing number of countries reporting parasite isolates resistant to triclabendazole treatment , highlighting the urgent need to develop new agents to control fluke infections . Here , we report the discovery of chalcones that effectively inhibits key cysteine proteases essential for parasite development and survival within the host . We further characterized the mode of inhibition of the most active compound against cathepsins secreted by both adult and larval stages of the parasite . This class of compounds is generally considered safe for clinical use and we showed that the most effective derivative is not cytotoxic to bovine sperm cells . Importantly , in vitro approaches showed that it reduces host penetration and larvae viability , finally leading to parasite death . These findings point at this derivative as a good starting point for the development of novel agents to control fluke infection and possibly other helminthic diseases .
The process of neurotransmission involves the conversion of electrical signals into the release of a chemical neurotransmitter from the neurons synaptic terminal , and the key trigger for this release is a rise in calcium concentration . Accordingly , the amplitude and speed of this calcium signal controls the amplitude and time-course of synaptic communication . Working on the synaptic terminals of fish retinal bipolar cells , we show that the presynaptic calcium signal and the subsequent neurotransmitter release are shaped by the basic property of synapse volume . Using a combination of experimental approaches and computational models , we found that large synapses are slow and adapt little during ongoing stimulation , while small synapses are fast and show more profound adaptation . This observation leads to a second key concept: since neurons usually have several presynaptic terminals that may vary in volume , a single neuron can , in principle , forward different synaptic signals to different postsynaptic partners . We provide direct evidence that this is the case for bipolar cells of the fish retina .
Brain function results from communication between neurons connected by complex synaptic networks . Synapses are themselves highly complex and diverse signaling machines , containing protein products of hundreds of different genes , some in hundreds of copies , precisely arranged at each individual synapse . Synapses are fundamental not only to synaptic network function but also to network development , adaptation , and memory . In addition , abnormalities of synapse numbers or their molecular components have been implicated in a variety of mental and neurological disorders . Despite their obvious importance , mammalian synapse populations have so far resisted detailed quantitative study . In human brains and most animal nervous systems , synapses are very small and very densely packed: there are approximately 1 billion synapses per cubic millimeter of human cortex . This volumetric density poses very substantial challenges to proteometric analysis at the critical level of the individual synapse . The present work describes new probabilistic image analysis methods suitable for single-synapse analysis of synapse populations in both animal and human brains , in health and disorder .
Herein we explored the mechanism of action of the human ZnT2 zinc transporter . ZnT2 is essential for zinc accumulation in breast milk and is therefore of paramount medical significance . Expanding on our previous study , we herein present energy calculations suggesting that ZnT2 functions as a proton/zinc antiporter . Our calculations consist of electrostatic and pKa calculations as well as zinc binding free-energy curves . Upon integration of our calculation results , we conclude that ZnT2 functions as an antiporter with a 2H+/Zn2+ stoichiometry , construct a Monte Carlo model to test this mode of ZnT2 transport activity , and validate our computational results experimentally using live human breast epithelial cells . These functional experiments reveal that ZnT2 cannot function in the absence of protons suggesting that it operates as a substrate-induced alternating-access transporter , displaying an apparent 2H+/Zn2+ stoichiometry .
Stalling and collapse of DNA replication forks is an important source of genome instability and has been implicated in early steps of carcinogenesis . The maintenance of stable intermediates upon stalled replication requires the coordinated action of a number of proteins and proper inhibitory control of dangerous enzymatic activities . In this study , we uncover an evolutionarily conserved mechanism through which 14-3-3 proteins modulate the checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation of , and in turn limit the activity of , an exonuclease ( Exo1 ) previously implicated in pathological processing of stalled replication forks and other sensitive DNA intermediates . This represents an unprecedented link in the field of DNA repair and genome stability , providing a molecular rationale to the yet undefined role of 14-3-3 proteins in the maintenance of genome integrity after replication stress . In analogy to Exo1 , our data suggest that additional factors at replication forks may be subjected to similar regulation , pointing to the 14-3-3 proteins as central components of the checkpoint triggered in response to replication stress .
Persistent expression of IFN-I is correlated with disease progression in HIV-1 infected humans or SIV-infected monkeys . Thus , persistent pDC activation has been implicated in contributing to AIDS pathogenesis . To define the role of pDC in HIV-1 infection and immunopathogenesis in vivo , we developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically and efficiently depletes human pDC in all lymphoid organs in humanized mice . We discover that pDC are the critical IFN-I producer cells in response to acute HIV-1 infection , because depletion of pDC completely abolished induction of IFN-I or ISG by HIV-1 infection , correlated with elevated level of HIV-1 replication . When pDC were depleted during chronic HIV-1 infection in humanized mice , pDC were still the major IFN-I producing cells in vivo , which contributed to HIV-1 suppression . Despite of higher level of viral replication in pDC-depleted mice , we found that HIV-induced depletion of human T cells and leukocytes was significantly reduced in lymphoid organs , correlated with reduced cell death induction by HIV-1 infection . Our findings demonstrate that pDC play two opposing roles in HIV-1 pathogenesis: they produce IFN-I to suppress HIV-1 replication and induce death of human immune cells to contribute to HIV-induced T cell depletion and immunopathogenesis .
Nrf2 turns on anti-oxidant genes in response to pharmaceuticals like oltipratz , environmental agents like heavy metals and cigarette smoke , endogenous agents like nitrous oxide and nitro-fatty acids and even plant products like sulforaphane ( SFN ) and epigallocatechin gallate ( EGCG ) . An increasing body of work is showing that some viruses activate and benefit from Nrf2 . In this work we tested the impact of Nrf2 on HIV . We used SFN , abundant in cruciferous vegetables and often used as a dietary supplement , to activate Nrf2 . Here we show , for the first time , that in immune cells isolated from donor blood , SFN halts HIV infection in macrophages , but not in T cells . We further show that upon SFN treatment the virus is blocked after it has transcribed its RNA-encoded genome into DNA , but before this genetic material is inserted into host chromosomes . Importantly this block is indeed dependent on Nrf2 . Interestingly , Nrf2 does not activate recognized anti-viral genes . Thus , unlike viruses recently found to benefit from Nrf2 activation , HIV can be blocked by its activation . This highlights the opportunity to activate a heretofore unrecognized anti-viral function by triggering an antioxidant response with a common dietary component .
In rural western Kenya , both malaria and intestinal infections with worms are common . Pregnant women are particularly vulnerable to infection with malaria , but the effect on pregnancy of intestinal infections with worms is not clear and may depend both on how heavy the worm infection is and on the type of worm . Additionally , it is not clear whether infections with worms may affect malaria infections . In this article , we begin to disentangle some of these issues . Intestinal infections with worms were diagnosed in three-quarters of 390 pregnant women in western Kenya who provided a stool sample . In these women , intestinal worm infections caused a modest decrease both in haemoglobin levels and indicators of nutritional status . Women in their second and third pregnancies who were diagnosed with one particular type of worm infection ( Ascaris lumbricoides ) were less likely to have malaria than other women in their second or third pregnancies who did not have this type of worm infection . Although our results suggest that it would be good advice to treat women with drugs for intestinal worm infections during their pregnancy in this area , the effect on maternal and infant health and malaria infection needs further study .
Mycolactone is a complex macrolidic polyketide produced by the skin pathogen Mycobacterium ulcerans , with cytotoxic , analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties . Peripheral nerve destruction and activation of type 2 angiotensin II receptors on sensory neurons have been proposed to mediate bacteria-induced hypoesthesia in infected skin . In addition , mycolactone was recently shown to block the co-translational translocation of secretory proteins into the endoplasmic reticulum in host cells , leading to defective inflammatory responses . Here we examined if this last mechanism may also contribute to inhibit neuro-inflammation and particularly in the context of neuropathic pain . Using a representative panel of primary cells from the central and peripheral nervous systems , we found that indeed , mycolactone potently inhibits the production of pro-inflammatory mediators at non-cytotoxic concentrations . Notably , mycolactone prevented the polarization and pro-inflammatory functions of cortical microglia , which are critical inducers of neuroinflammation . Consistent with our in vitro findings , mycolactone had potent anti-inflammatory effects on the spinal cord of rats injected in the spinal canal , with no apparent side effects . Our data show that mycolactone suppresses inflammatory responses in the nervous system similarly as in the immune system , suggesting that mycolactone-mediated analgesia may , at least partially , be explained by its anti-inflammatory properties .
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) known as sleeping sickness is a lethal neglected disease in West and Central Africa , caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei gambiense that is transmitted by tsetse flies Glossina palpalis gambiensis . The disease has long been considered to be invariably fatal , but field studies show that T . b . gambiense infection leads to a wide diversity of clinical outcomes . An acute form progressing rapidly to second stage; spontaneous self-cure and individuals able to control parasitaemia at very low levels ( latent infections ) . In the present study , we test for associations between candidate gene polymorphisms and different HAT phenotypes ( HAT confirmed cases , latent infections ) and endemic controls , in order to identify relationships between the clinical diversity and host genetic determinants . Our results , based on clinical , serological and parasitological observations , combined with genotypes and association analysis form the most complete study of host genetic determinants and clinical diversity of HAT in Guinea to date . We show that host genes are involved in modulating responses in Trypanosoma brucei gambiense infected individuals . A new association was found between IL6 rs1818879 and a reduced risk of progressing from latent infection to active HAT . These results constitute an important stage toward the identification of the natural human mechanisms involved in T . b . gambiense infection regulation .
Indians of South Asia has long been a population of interest to a wide audience , due to its unique diversity . We have deep-sequenced 38 individuals of Indian descent residing in Singapore ( SSIP ) in an effort to illustrate their diversity from a whole-genome standpoint . Indeed , among Asians in our population panel , SSIP was most diverse , followed by the Malays in Singapore ( SSMP ) . Their diversity is further observed in the population's chromosome Y haplogroup and mitochondria haplogroup profiles; individuals with European-dominant haplogroups had greater proportion of European admixture . Among variants ( single nucleotide polymorphism and small insertions/deletions ) discovered in SSIP , 21 . 69% were novel with respect to previous sequencing projects . In addition , some 14 loss-of-function variants ( LOFs ) were associated to cancer , Type II diabetes , and cholesterol levels . Finally , D statistic test with ancient hominids concurred that there was gene flow to East Asians compared to South Asians .
Burkholderia pseudomallei is the etiologic agent of melioidosis , an emerging tropical disease . Because of low infectious dose , broad-host-range infectivity , intrinsic antibiotic resistance and historic precedent as a bioweapon , B . pseudomallei was listed in the United States as a Select Agent and Priority Pathogen of biodefense concern by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases . The mechanisms governing antibiotic resistance and/or susceptibility and virulence in this bacterium are not well understood . Most clinical and environmental B . pseudomallei isolates are highly resistant to aminoglycosides , but susceptible variants do exist . The results of our studies with three such variants from Thailand reveal that lack of expression or deletion of an efflux pump is responsible for this susceptibility . The large deletion present in one strain not only removes an efflux pump but also several putative virulence genes , including an entire siderophore gene cluster . Despite this deletion , the strain is fully virulent in an acute mouse melioidosis model . In summary , our findings shed light on mechanisms of antibiotic resistance and pathogenesis . They also validate the previously advocated use of laboratory-constructed , aminoglycoside susceptible efflux pump mutants in genetic manipulation experiments .
During the development of a multicellular organism , the progenitor cells , which have the potential to become any of several different cell lineages with specialized functions , commit and differentiate into one particular lineage . This differentiation of progenitors is driven by the induction of lineage-specific transcription factors , molecules that regulate gene expression . This process is often mediated by extracellular signaling molecules , including a class of molecules called cytokines that can bind to cell surface receptors , activating and/or repressing transcription factors . Here we explored the early differentiation of naive T helper ( Th ) cells , an important class of T lymphocytes that help effector immune cells to defend the body against various pathogens . We measured both mRNA and protein levels of cytokines and transcription factors in individual cells . In particular , mRNA levels were measured with single-molecule resolution . Contrary to the expression of only one set of lineage-specific transcription factors , we observed ubiquitous high-level co-expression of antagonistic transcription factors in individual cells . We found that cytokines are expressed only in a small subpopulation of cells , independent from the expression of transcription factors in individual cells . When cytokine signaling is inhibited , each cell expressed only one of the antagonistic transcription factors at high levels . This reveals a weak intracellular network that is otherwise overruled by the strong signals that emanate from extracellular cytokines . These results suggest that during the early differentiation process T helper cells acquire a mixed Th1/Th2 state , instructed by extracellular cytokines . The interplay between extracellular and intracellular signaling components unveiled in Th1/Th2 differentiation may be a common strategy for mammalian cells to buffer against noisy cytokine expression .
Cold-blooded organisms such as insects , fish or worms must make physiological adjustments when the temperature in their environment decreases . One essential adaptive measure is to increase the fluidity of the cellular membranes that are made of fatty molecules and would tend to harden at low temperatures , just as butter would . In our study we identify genes that are regulated by PAQR-2 , a membrane protein that we show to be essential for adjusting the membrane fluidity during cold adaptation in the nematode C . elegans . Interestingly , the genes influenced by PAQR-2 are all involved in fatty acid metabolism . We speculate that the human homologs of PAQR-2 , which are receptors for the hormone adiponectin , may have similar functions .
It is estimated that 90% of the world's adult population is infected with Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) , which is responsible for causing cold sores , blindness , encephalitis , even death . One problem faced by all viruses is how to ensure that their genetic material enters the host cell . In viruses that infect bacteria ( bacteriophage ) , genome transfer from the virus into the cell is carried out by a specialized structure known as the tail . Studies have shown that bacteriophage and herpesviruses share a common evolutionary origin . However , until now , no tail-like structure has been seen in herpes . We have used newly developed electron microscopy based techniques to identify a structure in HSV , which recapitulates features of the bacteriophage tail and may also be involved in release of DNA from the virus particle at the nuclear pore . Such advances in understanding the structures that drive virus replication may suggest new therapeutic targets to counter viral infection .
Parasitic helminths have developed a number of strategies to evade , skew and dampen human immune responses . Such effects will likely have consequences for HIV-1 transmission and disease progression . Here we analyzed the effect that soluble egg antigen ( SEA ) from Schistosoma mansoni had on HIV-1 infection in vitro . We determined that SEA , through kappa-5 , can potently block DC-SIGN mediated HIV-1 trans-infection of CD4+ T-lymphocytes , but not block cis-infection . Dendritic cells ( DC ) exposed to SEA during maturation under Th2 skewing conditions , induce T-cell populations that are less susceptible to HIV-1 R5 infection compared to cells induced by unexposed DCs . HIV-1 X4 infection was unaffected . This restricted infection profile was not associated with down-modulation of CCR5 surface expression or observed differences in cytokine/chemokine production . Using recombinant omega-1 , an abundant component of SEA , HIV-1 R5 infection was similarly inhibited with no effect on HIV-1 X4 infection levels . Hence SEA possesses antigens , namely omega-1 , that can modulate HIV-1 infection and potentially influence disease course in co-infected individuals .
A key experimental observation associated with the astroglia–neuron interaction is the shrinkage of the extracellular space ( ECS ) that occurs in response to enhanced neuronal activation . Although well documented to be present in mammalian brains , this phenomenon has resisted a proper explanation since it was first reported . We present here a mathematical conceptualization that may explain the main mechanisms behind ECS shrinkage and provide a framework for a theoretical-experimental research programme that may help to reach a consensus explanation . Effective clearance of K+ is essential for normal brain function because an inappropriate increase in extracellular K+ will enhance neuronal excitability and promote neuronal afterdischarges and increase the probability of epileptic episodes . The shrinkage of the ECS usually appears in conjunction with K+ clearance and must be taken into account in a model of how astrocytes clear excess K+ following trains of action potentials . The present model allows us to make several clear and testable predictions addressing the relationship among potassium clearance , water transport , and ECS shrinkage . Among these are predictions concerning water transport functions of aquaporins in astrocytes , involvement of cotransporters in potassium clearance , and effects of particular knockouts on ECS shrinkage and ion concentrations .
Transposons and other repetitive elements occupy vast areas of the eukaryotic genomes . They pose a threat to genome integrity but at the same time regulate expression of many genes and have been proposed to be a major factor contributing to genome evolution . One of the processes responsible for controlling activity of transposons and other repetitive elements is transcriptional gene silencing . This process uses small interfering RNA and long non-coding RNA to recruit enzymes that establish repressive chromatin modifications . Several proteins have been identified to be needed for siRNA–mediated transcriptional silencing in Arabidopsis thaliana , however for many of them their position in the silencing pathway is unknown . One of those proteins is SPT5L/KTF1 , a homolog of an elongation factor associated with RNA Polymerase II . Here we establish the position of SPT5L in the silencing pathway and propose the molecular mechanism of its function . This gives further knowledge of the mechanism of transcriptional gene silencing and is important to understand how transposons are controlled .
Lyme disease , caused by the spirochetal pathogen Borrelia burgdorferi , is the most prevalent arthropod-borne infection in the United States . In order to maintain itself in nature , B . burgdorferi must cycle between its arthropod vector , Ixodes ticks , and a mammalian reservoir , usually a small rodent . Previous studies have demonstrated that the alternative sigma factor RpoS is essential for B . burgdorferi to infect a mammalian host , whereas a role within the tick has never been examined . In this study , we determined that one or more RpoS-dependent genes are required for B . burgdorferi to disseminate through the tick . Using a combination of microscopy techniques , we show that RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the lumen of the tick midgut during nymphal feeding where they form round bodies , while wild-type spirochetes remain elongated and traverse the midgut to enter the hemolymph and salivary glands en route to the mammalian host .
Gibberellin and jasmonate are plant hormones that mediate diverse plant developmental processes and responses to the environment . Deficiency in either gibberellin or jasmonate causes male sterility , in part due to the short stamen filament conferred . In this report , we sought to study the interaction between gibberellin and jasmonate during stamen filament development . We focused on three MYB genes , namely MYB21 , MYB24 , and MYB57 , which have been proven to be essential for stamen filament development in Arabidopsis . These three MYB genes are regulated by both gibberellin and jasmonate . We performed various molecular analyses and found that GA activates the expression of DAD1 and LOX1 , two genes essential for jasmonate biosynthesis . The hypothesis of GA regulating JA biosynthesis is proved by the fact that the JA content in the young flower buds of the ga1-3 gai-t6 rga-t2 rgl1-1 quadruple mutant is much lower than that in the WT . This evidence demonstrates that GA promotes the production of jasmonate and high level of jasmonate will induce the expression of MYB21 , MYB24 , and MYB57 to promote stamen filament development . This is most likely the first molecular and genetic evidence to show how gibberellin and jasmonate interact to control stamen filament development .
Dietary restriction ( DR ) is one of the most robust environmental manipulations that extend lifespan in various species . DR has also been shown to slow the onset of a number of age-related diseases . Studies in model organisms like C . elegans can be used to uncover biological mechanisms that determine the beneficial effects of DR . Previous studies suggest that the nutrient-sensing target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is required for DR-mediated lifespan extension . However , the downstream mechanisms by which TOR modulates lifespan remain unclear . In mammalian cells , TOR and the downstream S6 kinase ( S6K ) activate expression of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( HIF-1 ) , which is frequently up-regulated in various tumors . Using C . elegans as a model system , we characterized novel functions of HIF-1 in aging . We find that inhibition of HIF-1 extends lifespan under rich nutrient conditions , whereas enhanced levels of HIF-1 only allow partial lifespan extension by DR . We also demonstrated that increased lifespan by hif-1 or DR depends on the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress regulator inositol-requiring protein-1 ( IRE-1 ) and is associated with lower levels of ER stress , which is caused by overloading of misfolded/unfolded proteins to ER . Thus , our results support the idea that HIF-1–mediated changes in protein homeostasis play a key role in the lifespan extension by DR .
The epidermis , a continuously renewing epithelium , balances proliferation and differentiation during development and homeostasis . During wound healing epidermal keratinocytes become migratory to close the wound . The transition of keratinocytes between these three different states—progenitor , differentiation and migration-requires the activation of distinct gene expression programs whose regulation is poorly understood . Our study demonstrates how regulatory chromatin domains like typical enhancers and super enhancers interact with transcription factors , resulting in complex layers of regulation with specific transcription factors regulating distinct stages of the epidermal differentiation process . Specifically , the epidermal transcription factor GRHL3 regulates both possible transitions of progenitor epidermal cell: differentiation and migration . We found that both GRHL3 chromatin binding and enhancers relocate as keratinocytes move between functional states . In addition , we show reciprocal regulation between GRHL3 and enhancers: chromatin domains , including a super enhancer , regulate GRHL3 expression , while GRHL3 regulates the formation of a subset of epidermal super enhancers and typical enhancers .
The genome of all vertebrates is heavily colonized by “endogenous” retroviruses ( ERVs ) . ERVs derive from retrovirus infections of the germ cells of the host during evolution , leading to permanent integration of the viral genome into the host DNA . Because ERVs are integrated in the host genome , they are transmitted to subsequent generations like any other host gene . The function of endogenous retroviruses is not completely clear , but some ERVs can block the replication cycle of horizontally transmitted “exogenous” pathogenic retroviruses . These observations lead to the hypothesis that ERVs have protected the host during evolution against incoming pathogenic retroviruses . Here , by characterizing the evolutionary history and molecular virology of a particular group of endogenous betaretroviruses of sheep ( enJSRVs ) we show a fascinating series of events unveiling the endless struggle between host and retroviruses . In particular , we discovered that: ( i ) two enJSRV loci that entered the host genome before speciation within the genus Ovis ( ∼ 3 million y ago ) acquired , after their integration , a mutated defective viral protein capable of blocking exogenous related retroviruses; ( ii ) both these transdominant enJSRV loci became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication ( ∼ 10 , 000 y ago ) ; ( iii ) the invasion of the sheep genome by ERVs of the JSRV/enJSRVs group is still in progress; and ( iv ) new viruses have recently emerged ( less than 200 y ago ) that can escape the transdominant enJSRV loci . This study strongly suggests that endogenization and selection of ERVs acting as restriction factors is a mechanism used by the host to fight retroviral infections .
Schistosomiasis is one of the most important human parasitic neglected tropical diseases . It is a major source of morbidity and mortality in Africa but also in South America , the Caribbean , the Middle East , and Asia . It is transmitted by skin penetration of schistosome cercariae via contact with freshwater . Schistosoma mansoni and S . haematobium are the most common species and are frequent causes of infection in travelers and migrants returning from endemic areas . Chronic infections with these two species can cause irreversible damage to the liver or genitourinary tract . Diagnosis mainly relies on serological screening and microscopic procedures from urine and stool specimens that can , however , fail to detect low parasite burden and depend on operator competence . So there is a need to improve the detection of this disease . With this retrospective study , we evaluate the accuracy of a specific Schistosoma PCR assay for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis on a large cohort of migrants and travelers returning from endemic areas . Our study showed that PCR , a technique allowing Schistosoma DNA amplification and detection , greatly improved the diagnosis of both parasite species in urine , feces and biopsies . We also demonstrate that the detection of circulating Schistosoma DNA in blood by PCR is useful to confirm schistosomiasis diagnosis , to provide a species identification when the microscopy research is negative and to monitor the treatment efficacy .
Molecular dynamics simulations provide insight into the dynamic behavior of molecules , e . g . , into the adopted spatial arrangements of its atoms over time . Methods differ in the approximations they employ , resulting in a trade-off between accuracy and speed that ranges from highly accurate but expensive quantum mechanical calculations to fast but more inaccurate molecular mechanics force fields . Machine learning , a sub-discipline of artificial intelligence , provides algorithms that learn from data , that is , make predictions based on previously seen examples . By starting with a few expensive quantum mechanical calculations , training a machine learning algorithm on them , and then using the resulting model to carry out the molecular dynamics simulation , one can improve the accuracy/speed trade-off . We have developed and applied such a hybrid quantum mechanics/machine learning approach to Archazolid A , a natural product from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra and a potent inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase . By dynamically refining our model over the course of the simulation , we achieve errors of less than 1 kcal/mol while saving over 40% of the quantum mechanical calculations . Our study demonstrates the feasibility of predictive machine learning models for the dynamics of structurally complex , pharmaceutically relevant compounds , potentially enabling considerable speed-ups in simulations of even larger biomolecular structures .
Ebolavirus causes deadly outbreaks in wild great apes , and has been reported as a significant threat to the survival of wild lowland gorillas in Central Africa . Improved knowledge of basic information regarding geographic distribution of ebolavirus in great ape populations , including the identification of immunologically naïve populations and the determination of whether apes survive virus exposure , will be needed in order for protective interventions such as immunization to be effective . However , monitoring ebolavirus infection in wild gorillas by current methods is challenging because of the difficulty in obtaining diagnostic samples from these elusive primates . Additionally , there are limitations associated with the available laboratory assays used to document ebolavirus infection . Here we report the first successful noninvasive detection of EBOV immunity in wild great apes , demonstrating survival in this species . This tool will be useful in a comprehensive strategy aimed at the protection of this endangered species and improved prevention of EVD outbreaks in human populations .
Numerous bacterial pathogens infecting plants , animals and humans use a common strategy of host colonization , which involves injection of specific proteins termed effectors into the host cell . Identification of effector proteins and elucidation of their individual functions is essential for our understanding of the pathogenesis process . Here , we identify a novel effector , XopL , from Xanthomonas campestris pv . vesicatoria , which causes disease in tomato and pepper plants . We show that XopL suppresses PAMP-related defense gene expression and further characterize XopL as an E3 ubiquitin ligase . This eukaryote-specific function involves attachment of ubiquitin molecule ( s ) to a particular protein targeted for degradation or localisation to specific cell compartments . Ubiquitination processes play a central role in cell-cycle regulation , DNA repair , cell growth and immune responses . In the case of XopL this activity triggers plant cell death . Through structural and functional analysis we demonstrate that XopL contains two distinct domains , one of which demonstrates a novel fold never previously observed in E3 ubiquitin ligases . This novel domain specifically interacts with plant ubiquitination system components . Our findings provide the first insights into the function of a previously unknown XopL effector and identify a new member of the growing family of bacterial pathogenic factors hijacking the host ubiquitination system .
The HIV-specific T cell memory response diminishes rapidly even after the initiation of anti-retroviral treatment ( ART ) , and there is no control of viral rebound if treatment is interrupted . Restoration or preservation of memory T cells or B cells with treatment , to allow for control of virus replication after ART is stopped , is therefore very important . CD4+ T cells , in particular T follicular helper ( Tfh ) cells , have a major role in mediating antiviral immunity by providing help to B cells , which is key to a strong and efficient anti-HIV antibody response . The unique RV254 cohort provided the best setting to analyze immune responses during very early acute HIV , as the study was able to enroll individuals that were infected for less than 2 weeks and initiated treatment approximately 1–2 days after recruitment . We aimed to study the capacity of memory circulating Tfh ( cTfh ) cells to promote B cell help in acute HIV infection , and found the interaction to be dysfunctional in the later stage compared to the very early stages , accompanied by increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines and a reduction in regulatory cytokines . High levels of plasma viremia correlated with low cTfh-mediated B cell antibody production in later stage acute individuals; and memory B cells were significantly decreased but could be restored with ART , compared to chronically infected individuals , who could not normalize this compartment compared to healthy individuals . Overall , we show that the cTfh- B cell interaction and B cell memory compartment is altered in late stage acute infection , mainly attributed to an increase in inflammation and skewing of the response away from helper to proinflammatory . Identifying individuals for treatment in the earliest stages of acute infection , prior to immune damage , could preserve cTfh function and the anti-HIV B cell response , therefore reducing the chances of viral rebound upon the cessation of ART .
Parasitic flatworms express a diverse array of G protein coupled receptors , but our knowledge of their pharmacological profile is limited . No high throughput screen of a flatworm GPCR has been reported , even though these targets have precedent for high druggability and functionality in the chemotherapeutically vulnerable excitable cell niche . The goal of this study was to establish a method for profiling flatworm G protein coupled receptors that can be scaled to high content screening . Using a cAMP biosensor , we have performed a proof of principle miniaturized screen on a schistosome serotonergic GPCR that resolves new ligands that potently and selectivity block 5-HT receptor activity in vitro , and 5-HT evoked responses in schistosomules and adult worms . This approach evidences the pharmacological divergence of a parasitic GPCR from the closest human homolog and a capacity for high content interrogation of flatworm GPCR properties and ligand specificities .
The formation and maintenance of tissue boundaries is an essential feature of multicellular animals , including humans . Using the frog embryo as a model system , we describe a mechanism of tissue separation that involves repeated cycles of cell attachment and detachment at the boundary between two adjacent tissues . Molecularly , this mechanism is based on a signal exchange across the boundary by a system of receptors and ligands—EphB receptors and ephrinB ligands—that are both integral cell membrane proteins , and thus require direct cell contact for signaling . In this way , cell attachment-dependent contact induces signaling which leads to a temporary detachment , followed by reattachment and a next round of signaling . Such an attachment-detachment mechanism allows for cell migration along the boundary , while at the same time preventing invasion of the stationary tissue by the migrating one .
Autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) encompasses a family of neurological disorders characterized by limited social interaction and restricted repetitive behaviors . The number of children diagnosed with ASD has grown exponentially over the last four decades and is now estimated to affect ∼1 . 5% of children . Although ASD is currently diagnosed and treated based solely on psychometric tools , a biochemical view applicable to at least a subset of ASD cases is emerging . Abnormalities in folate-dependent one carbon metabolism and transsulfuration pathways can summarize a large number of observations of genetic and environmental effects that increase ASD predisposition . However , these complex , highly interconnected pathways require more advanced statistical models than the typical univariate models presented in the literature . Therefore , we developed multivariate statistical models that classify participants based on their neurological status and predict adaptive behavior in ASD . We emphasize that these models are cross-validated , helping to ensure that the results will generalize to new samples . The models developed herein have much stronger predictability than any existing approaches from the scientific literature .
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that causes approximately 20 to 40 thousand deaths every year . In Brazil , more than 600 , 000 clinical cases of leishmaniasis have been reported since 1990 . Almost 90% of these cases are due to cutaneous leishmaniasis , whereas the remaining 10% are due to visceral leishmaniasis . Understanding of disease transmission , together with model-based incidence maps , will assist in designing and optimizing control efforts . We used reported leishmaniasis incidence data in Brazil covering the period between 2001 and 2010 to explore the association of the disease with climatic , environmental , and socioeconomic variables , and to predict its spatial distribution using Bayesian geostatistical models . We produced countrywide high spatial resolution maps for both forms of leishmaniasis and estimated the number of infected people , stratified by state . We believe that our incidence maps are useful to prioritize the spatial targeting of prevention and control .
Dengue is a common and potentially serious viral illness . Complications include plasma leakage from small blood vessels causing shock and dysfunction of the systems that control blood clotting , resulting in bleeding . The disease used to affect children predominantly , but in recent years , the number of adult patients has been increasing . As there is limited data describing the patterns of complications by age , we performed this study to compare clinical and laboratory features , management , and outcomes of the disease for over 1 , 500 children and adults with confirmed dengue recruited at the same time at a single hospital in the Southern Vietnam . We found that plasma leakage and shock were more common and severe in children than adults , while bleeding and organ dysfunction were more frequent in adults . Adults had lower platelet counts throughout the illness course as well as at a follow-up visit several weeks after recovery . Platelets are a crucial element in controlling bleeding , and the intrinsically lower counts in adults compared to children may contribute to the greater risk for bleeding in this patient group . Knowledge about differences in the patterns of dengue-related complications between children and adults should help clinicians to diagnose and treat patients more effectively .
SIV causes AIDS in macaques , like HIV-1 does in humans , but not in its natural host species such as sooty mangabeys ( SM ) . It is therefore important to understand infection in natural hosts , including the mechanisms and cellular targets of infection . SIV replication in SM is thought to exclusively use CCR5 as its entry coreceptor , which mediates viral entry in conjunction with CD4 and is the main determinant of target cell tropism . However , other molecules also function as SIV coreceptors in vitro . We discovered that inactivating mutations in the CCR5 gene are common among SM and , furthermore , homozygous mutant animals lacking functional CCR5 still become infected and have high viral loads . Ex vivo , SM lymphocytes can be infected independently of CCR5 , and several alternative entry coreceptors are used by SIV from both CCR5+ and CCR5-null animals . Thus , SIV infection in SM is mediated by other coreceptors in addition to CCR5 , suggesting that these molecules together may determine tropism and cell targeting in vivo . These results provide new insight into an important model of nonpathogenic natural host infection , and identify a novel role for alternative entry pathways suggesting a potentially broader range of target cells in vivo than currently recognized .
The tumorigenic process is characterized by profound alterations of the transcriptional landscape , aimed to sustain uncontrolled cell growth , resistance to apoptosis and metastasis . The contribution of MEF2 , a pleiotropic family of transcription factors , to these changes is controversial , since both pro-oncogenic and tumor-suppressive activities have been reported . To clarify this paradox , we studied the role of MEF2 in an aggressive type of soft-tissue sarcomas , the leiomyosarcomas ( LMS ) . We found that in LMS cells MEF2 become oncogenes when in complex with class IIa HDACs . We have identified different sub-classes of MEF2-target genes and observed that HDAC9 converts MEF2 into transcriptional repressors on some , but not all , MEF2-regulated loci . This conversion correlates with the acquisition by MEF2 of oncogenic properties . We have also elucidated some epigenetic re-arrangements supervised by MEF2 . In summary , our studies suggest that the paradoxical actions of MEF2 in cancer can be explained by their dual role as activators/repressors of transcription and open new possibilities for therapeutic interventions .
Filamentous fungi release a specific type of protein , belonging to a protein family known as “hydrophobins” into their environment to control interfaces in a fashion that promotes growth . Such protein coatings are the mechanism that allows for the mycelia to grow out of the water and into the air . When these hydrophobins form films at the air-water interface and on the surface of solid objects immersed in water , they impart properties to those surfaces that has led to their use in a wide range of industrial applications . Of particular interest is the properties they impart to air liquid interfaces , and as a mechanism to bring protective materials to coat nanoparticles in nanotechnology applications . A more detailed knowledge of the structure of these surfaces will allow for augmentation of their function that is possible through genetic engineering of the hydrophobins themselves . In this study we have combined computational and experimental methods to develop atomistic level insight into the structure of this surface for two important hydrophobins: HFBI and HFBII of Trichoderma reesei . In addition to insight into the surface structure , we have uncovered an intriguing possible new mechanism for film formation , which may explain some of the striking properties of hydrophobin films , and could be extended to a more general mechanism .
Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) are ubiquitous enzymes required for protein translation . They play a vital role in helping an organism's survival . Therefore , they have been suggested as favourable targets for the development of antileishmanial drugs . Leishmania , a protozoan parasite that causes leishmaniasis is known to encode 26 aaRSs . In the present study , we have worked on the functional characterization of L . donovani threonyl tRNA synthetase ( LdThrRS ) protein . We report that the L . donovani encodes a functional copy of ThrRS . The protein is localized in the cytosol and possibly also in mitochondria . The LdThrRS seems to be an essential gene for the parasite since null mutants did not survive . The deletion of one allele of the gene caused reduced growth and attenuated virulence in the heterozygous parasites . These parasites showed increased sensitivity to the known ThrRS inhibitor , borrelidin . Furthermore , borrelidin was found to inhibit the aminoacylation activity of LdThrRS thus , indicating that parasitic ThrRS can be exploited as a drug target for antileishmanial chemotherapy .
Pathogen recognition receptors ( PRRs ) are critical components of the innate immune response to viral pathogens , and function in the host to recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) in viral proteins or nucleic acids . Retinoic acid-inducible gene I ( RIG-I ) is a cytoplasmic PRR that senses viral RNA inside an infected cell . RIG-I recognizes hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) RNA as non-self through the presence of both a 5′-triphosphate ( 5′-ppp ) and a 3′ poly-U/UC tract within the viral RNA . Here we examined the RNA structure-function attributes that define the HCV poly-U/UC tract as non-self to RIG-I , including nucleotide composition . We found that the 34 nucleotide poly-uridine “core” ( U-core ) within the HCV poly-U/UC tract RNA was required for non-self recognition by RIG-I , and interspersed ribocytosine nucleotides were also important to induce optimal RIG-I signaling . RIG-I/RNA binding studies revealed that RIG-I formed weaker interactions with HCV RNAs lacking poly-U sequences , and RNA interaction with multiple domains of RIG-I was required to activate signaling . Finally , RIG-I recognition of the U-core within the poly-U/UC tract activated anti-HCV responses in vitro and hepatic innate immune responses in vivo . Our studies identify long poly-uridine sequences with interspersed ribocytosines as an HCV PAMP motif that drives optimal RIG-I signaling .
Eosinophilia is a central feature of Type 2 immunity induced by infection with parasitic worms . Although early work showed that eosinophils could adhere to and damage parasite larvae in vitro , a definitive role for eosinophils during worm infection remained elusive for many years . Recent studies uncovered novel roles of eosinophils in regulating metabolism and tissue remodeling , observations that suggest that eosinophils may function as regulatory cells and modulate such processes during helminth infections . We investigated the eosinophil-dependent mechanism that promotes growth of Trichinella spiralis larvae . We found that larval growth is independent of adaptive immunity and requires IL-4/STAT6 signaling in eosinophils . Gene transcription profiles in infected muscle suggested that eosinophils promote larval growth by suppressing local inflammation and enhancing nutrient uptake and metabolism . Our study provides new insights into the interactions between a parasitic worm and its host .
Eukaryotic chromosomes replicate from multiple replication origins that fire at different times in S phase . The mechanisms that specify origin position and firing time and coordinate origins to ensure complete genome duplication are unclear . Previous studies proposed either that origins are arranged in temporally coordinated groups or fire independently of each other in a stochastic manner . Here , we have performed a quantitative analysis of human genome replication kinetics using a combination of DNA combing , which reveals local patterns of origin firing and replication fork progression on single DNA molecules , and massive sequencing of newly replicated DNA , which reveals the population-averaged replication timing profile of the entire genome . We show that origins are activated synchronously in large regions of uniform replication timing but more gradually in temporal transition regions and that the rate of origin firing increases as replication progresses . Large regions of unidirectional fork progression are abundant in embryonic stem cells but rare in differentiated cells . We propose a model in which replication forks progressing from early origins stimulate initiation in nearby unreplicated DNA in a manner that explains the shape of the replication timing profile . These results provide a fundamental insight into the temporal regulation of mammalian genome replication .
Neurons interact by exchanging information via small connection sites , so-called synapses . Interestingly , the efficiency of synapses in transmitting neuronal signals is not static , but changes dynamically depending on the signals that the associated neurons emit . As neurons receive thousands of synaptic input signals , they can thus “choose” the input signals they are interested in by adjusting their synapses accordingly . This adaptation mechanism , known as synaptic plasticity , has long been hypothesized to form the neuronal correlate of learning . It raises a difficult question: what aspects of the input signals are the neurons interested in , given that the adaptation of the synapses follows a certain mechanistic rule ? We address this question for spike-timing–dependent plasticity , a type of synaptic plasticity that has raised a lot of interest in the last decade . We show that under certain assumptions regarding neuronal information transmission , spike-timing–dependent plasticity focuses on aspects of the input signals that vary slowly in time . This relates spike-timing–dependent plasticity to a class of abstract learning rules that were previously proposed as a means of learning to recognize objects in spite of contextual changes such as size or position . Based on this link , we propose a novel functional interpretation of spike-timing–dependent plasticity .
Here , we provide mathematical and empirical evidence to support a potentially new paradigm in drug resistance , which we have termed “cooperative adaptation to therapy” ( CAT ) . CAT is defined by a phenomenon wherein drug-sensitive cancer cells with different genetic and phenotypic features within a 3-dimensional heterogeneous tumor induce non-mutational resistance in their neighboring cells under pressure of cancer therapy . To develop this novel conclusion we deployed an interdisciplinary effort including an ex vivo human tumor model , a CRISPR/Cas9 platform with 3-dimensional in vitro experiments , and high throughput flow cytometry . Importantly , we wove these data together using a mathematical model of intra- and interspecies competition to understand how tumor heterogeneity influenced our observations . By estimating the model’s parameters , we determined that the combination of genetic clonal variants in co-cultures allowed for previously drug-sensitive cells to continue to grow despite drug pressure . We were thus able to characterize distinct growth regimens in mono- and co-cultures without and with drug pressure .
We report a high seroprevalence for antibodies against Spotted Fever Group ( SFG ) rickettsiae in Southwestern Tanzania , a group of bacteria that is mostly transmitted by ectoparasites such as fleas , lice , mites , and ticks . Serum samples from 1 . 228 persons were selected , and 67 . 9% were positive indicating past infection . Seropositivity was clearly associated with warmer temperature , low population density and elevations below 1 , 500 m . These infections may have been caused by Rickettsia africae , which is transmitted to humans by a cattle tick , and was found in similar settings in Africa . To investigate further on the significance of SFG rickettsioses on disease burden in the area , investigations in acutely febrile patients should be conducted .
The evolution of multicellular organisms has been shaped by their interactions with pathogenic microorganisms . The microscopic nematode C . elegans eats bacteria for food and has evolved inducible immune defenses toward ingested pathogens that are coordinated within intestinal epithelial cells . C . elegans , therefore , presents a genetic system to characterize the requirements for the activation of innate immune defenses . Here , we show that the monounsaturated fatty acid oleate is necessary for the induction of innate immune defenses and for protection against bacterial pathogens , which defines a new link between metabolism and the regulation of anti-pathogen responses in a metazoan host .
During the last 30 years , bacterial resistance to antibiotics has become a major problem . This situation is partly because today's antibiotics are mainly based on a limited selection of chemical scaffolds , which makes it easier for bacterial pathogens to quickly develop resistance against new drug derivatives . This recurrent problem of multiple drug resistance implies a constant need to search for novel microbial targets and to modulate their activity using artificial molecules . Riboswitches are newly discovered gene regulatory elements that represent attractive targets for antimicrobial drugs . Riboswitches are RNA structures located in untranslated regions of messenger RNAs that regulate the expression of genes involved in the transport and metabolism of small metabolites . We have identified a new antibiotic specifically targeting riboswitches found in a subgroup of bacteria including Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium difficile , which are nosocomial pathogens responsible for a significant mortality rate in hospitals , and increased health care costs . The riboswitch controls the expression of guaA that appears essential for virulence in the mammalian host . A murine model was used as a proof of principle to show that such an antibiotic could inhibit the growth of S . aureus in a mammal . Our work provides new insights into the discovery and design of novel antimicrobial agents against bacterial pathogens .
In the brain of mammalian species , the hippocampus is a key structure for episodic and spatial memory and is home to neurons coding a selective location in space ( “place cells” ) . These neurons have been mostly investigated in the rat . However , species such as rodents and primates have access to different olfactory and visual information , and it is still unclear how their hippocampal cells compare . By analyzing hippocampal activity of nonhuman primates ( rhesus macaques ) while they searched a virtual environment for a reward , we show that space coding is more complex than a mere position or orientation selectivity . Rather , space is represented as a combination of visually derived information and task-related knowledge . Here , we uncover how this multidimensional representation emerges from gazing at the environment at key moments of the animal’s exploration of space . We show that neurons are active for precise positions and actions related to the landmarks gazed at by the animals . Neurons were even found to anticipate the appearance of landmarks , sometimes responding to a landmark that was not yet visible . Overall , the place fields of primate hippocampal neurons appear as the projection of a multidimensional memory onto physical space .
Understanding brain formation during development is a tantalizing challenge . It is also essential for the fight against neurodegenerative diseases . In vertebrates , the central nervous system arises from a structure called the neural plate . This tissue is divided into four regions , which continue to develop into forebrain , midbrain , hindbrain and spinal cord . Interactions between locally expressed genes and signaling molecules are responsible for this patterning . Two key signaling molecules in this process are Fgf8 and Wnt1 proteins . They are secreted from a signaling center located at the boundary between prospective mid- and hindbrain ( mid-hindbrain boundary , MHB ) and mediate development of these two brain regions . Here , we logically analyze the spatial gene expression patterns at the MHB and predict interactions involved in the differentiation of mid- and hindbrain . In particular , our analysis indicates that Wnt1 depends on Fgf8 for stable maintenance . A time-course analysis of Wnt1 expression after implantation of Fgf8-coated beads in mouse neural plate/tube explants experimentally validates our prediction about the interactions between these two key patterning molecules . Subsequently , we demonstrate that available data allows construction of a mathematical model able to explain the maintenance of the signaling center at the MHB . We begin to understand this small aspect of brain formation on a systems level .
The apicomplexan parasite Theileria can reprogram the cell it infects , inducing uncontrolled proliferation and clonal expansion . This is brought about by the schizont , which resides free in the host cell cytoplasm . As the schizont never leaves the cell to infect other cells , it can only persist provided it is distributed over the two daughter cells each time the host cell divides . This is achieved by interacting dynamically with microtubules ( MTs ) that form part of the host cell mitotic apparatus . How MTs are recruited to the schizont surface is not known . MTs are highly dynamic , undergoing continuous cycles of growth and shrinkage that is regulated to a large extent by an array of proteins , called +TIPs , that associate with the free plus-ends of MTs . End-binding protein 1 ( EB1 ) is a master regulator and central adaptor that mediates MT plus-end tracking of potentially all other +TIPs . We established that a schizont surface protein , p104 , provides a docking site for EB1 , which critically depends on a consensus SxIP motif , present in p104 . These finding provides important new insight into the complex interaction of the transforming schizont with host cell MTs . To our knowledge , p104 is the first pathogen-derived protein identified so far to join the SxIP family of EB1-binding proteins .
Telomeres are the ends of linear eukaryotic chromosomes maintained by an enzyme called telomerase . Non-telomeric DNA ends are often generated as a result of broken replication forks and are usually repaired by break-induced replication ( BIR ) or homologous recombination to avoid genomic instability . However , telomerase can interfere with the repair by adding a new telomere to a broken DNA end , or the break can be ligated to a telomere , thereby inducing genome re-arrangements that are often found in human genetic disorders and cancer . To understand how cells avoid erroneous repair , we studied cdc9-1 yeast mutant cells that generate broken replication forks with high frequency . We discovered that , in cells with DNA damage , a helicase called Pif1 is phosphorylated and this phosphorylation enables Pif1 not only to inhibit telomerase at broken DNA ends but also stimulate the break repair by BIR , which in turn leads to additional telomere lengthening . Thus , a new regulatory pathway stimulates accurate break repair by BIR and at the same time promotes telomerase activity at telomeres .
Caused by the filarial parasite Onchocerca volvulus , onchocerciasis is a neglected tropical disease associated with blindness and severe dermatitis . Available diagnostic methods are either invasive , require hours or days to perform , and/or need sophisticated equipment to be conducted . Thus , there is an urgent need for simple and rapid technologies for the specific diagnosis of Onchocerca volvulus infection . Here we investigated whether luciferase immunoprecipitation systems ( LIPS ) can produce a more rapid and specific test for diagnosis of O . volvulus infection . Using modified versions of previously identified Onchocerca-specific antigens , LIPS tests detected antibodies to all four O . volvulus antigens and easily distinguished the O . volvulus-infected samples from uninfected samples . We also tested these four different antigens in a simpler format as a combined mixture and distinguished 100% of the confirmed cases from the uninfected controls . A rapid 15-minute version of this mixture test ( QLIPS ) also allowed distinction of 100% of the cases from those uninfected and performed even better in identifying Onchocerca from other cross-reactive parasitic infections . This study suggests that this rapid LIPS test ( QLIPS ) has the potential to be used in point-of-care detection of onchocerciasis and thereby may provide a new tool for diagnosis and the monitoring of transmission control measures .
Nutritional deficiencies are common in women in rural and disadvantaged regions , and , in particular , iron and folate deficiencies may impact their health and that of their offspring . Weekly iron-folic acid supplementation and regular deworming help to prevent these deficiencies , yet many women in developing countries do not have access to these interventions . Using the local health system , we implemented a weekly iron-folic acid supplementation program with regular deworming for approximately 250 , 000 women in a rural mountainous province of Viet Nam . We present the results of a survey of women's iron and worm infection status after the program has been running for 54 months . Overall , anemia prevalence fell from 38% to 18% , iron deficiency fell from 23% to 8% and the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia was reduced to 4% . The level of moderate or heavy infestation of any soil-transmitted worm infection was reduced to less than 1% . These results show that a health system-based program can reduce and maintain the prevalence of these diseases in the community at a level where they do not constitute a public health risk .
The human herpesvirus Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is an important human pathogen involved in infectious mononucleosis and several malignant tumors , including lymphomas in the immunosuppressed . Upon primary infection , a balance between virus and host is established , to which EBV’s capacity to dodge T cell-mediated attack contributes . Here we identify the late protein EBV gp150 as a novel immunoevasin , frustrating antigen presentation by HLA class I , class II , and CD1d molecules . EBV gp150’s many sialoglycans create a shield impeding surface detection of presented antigen . Interestingly , exploiting glycan shielding as a mechanism to mask surface exposed proteins on infected cells could permit EBV to additionally modulate other aspects of host antiviral defense . B cells producing wild-type EBV escaped immune recognition more efficiently than those infected with a gp150-null virus , pointing towards a role for gp150 in natural infection . Our results reveal a novel , broadly active strategy by which a herpesvirus glycoprotein , EBV gp150 , blocks antigen presentation to T cells through glycan shielding , a new paradigm in herpesvirus immune evasion .
Chlamydiae are bacterial obligate intracellular pathogens responsible for multiple human and veterinary diseases . The induction of cytoskeletal rearrangements to promote chlamydial internalization is partially mediated by a type III secreted effector protein called Tarp that is translocated upon contact with host cells and independently nucleates actin filament formation . Tarp from a C . trachomatis lymphogranuloma venereum ( LGV ) strain consists of a tyrosine-rich repeat domain , a proline-rich domain required for oligomerization , and a single actin binding domain . Oligomerization is required to bring multiple actin monomers together to initiate actin filament formation by a mechanism distinct from host actin nucleators . Here we have examined Tarp from several other strains of chlamydiae and find that certain of these contain up to four actin binding domains . Tarp fragments bearing multiple actin binding domains nucleate actin in in vitro assays even in the absence of the oligomerization domain . This suggests that Tarp from different chlamydial species may utilize hybrid mechanisms to induce actin nucleation . Determination of virulence determinants in chlamydiae is challenging due to the lack of tractable genetic systems . The direct introduction of anti-Tarp actin binding domain antibodies into the cytosol of host cells inhibited entry and thus demonstrates an essential role for Tarp in chlamydial pathogenesis .
Schistosomiasis japonica , a chronic human parasitic disease in the People's Republic of China , the Philippines and areas of Indonesia , is a zoonosis with over 40 different mammals , including a number of ruminants , that can act as reservoir hosts for the infection . Precise identification of the major infection reservoirs is important for the control of Schistosoma japonicum as their targeted treatment can prevent environmental contamination and transmission of the parasite , thus reducing the risk to humans . Current copro-parasitological techniques are generally unsatisfactory for identifying and quantifying S . japonicum eggs in ruminant feces due to the large volume of cellulosic debris present . The new approach we describe here , the FEA–SD technique , removes much of this material by sieving and centrifugation with ethyl actate and renders any remaining debris transparent by use of a potassium hydroxide ( KOH ) digestion , providing much improved visualization of eggs , enabling the collection of more accurate data on S . japonicum infection in ruminants . This new tool will be of particular value for monitoring schistosome prevalence and intensity in animal reservoirs in areas of the People's Republic of China that are heading toward schistosomiasis elimination .
The prolyl 3-hydroxylase complex serves to hydroxylate a single residue in type I collagen and also serves as a collagen chaperone . The complex is comprised of prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 , cartilage associated protein , and cyclophilin B . Mutations have been identified in the genes encoding the complex members in patients with recessive Osteogenesis Imperfecta . Recent data suggest that prolyl 3-hydroxylation of collagen does not alter the stability of collagen but may rather mediate protein-protein interactions . Additionally , the collagen chaperoning function of the complex is an important rate limiting step in the modification of type I collagen . Irrespective of whether patients with mutations in the genes encoding the members of the prolyl 3-hydroxylase complex have hypomorphic or complete loss of function alleles , either circumstance leads to the loss of both functions of the prolyl 3-hydroxylase complex . Thus , it is unknown how collagen chaperoning and/or hydroxylation affect bone and cartilage homeostasis . In this study , we generated a mouse model lacking the prolyl 3-hydroxylation activity of the complex while maintaining the chaperoning function . We found that the hydroxylase mutant mice have normal cartilage and normal cortical bone but decreased trabecular bone , suggesting that there is a differential requirement for hydroxylation in different tissues .
Some genes perform necessary organismal functions , others hijack the cellular machinery to replicate themselves , potentially harming the host in the process . These ‘selfish genes’ can spread through genomes and species; as a result , eukaryotic genomes are typically saddled with large amounts of parasitic DNA . Here , we chronicle the surprisingly rapid global spread of a selfish transposable element through a close relative of the genetic model , Drosophila melanogaster . We see that , as it spreads , the transposable element is associated with damaging effects , including sterility , but that the flies quickly adapt to the negative consequences of the transposable element .
The recent resurgence in male-based “rear and release” strategies ( release of radiation sterilised males or those harbouring Wolbachia ) to control diseases transmitted by urban Aedes mosquitoes , including dengue , chikungunya , and Zika , has revealed the need for an economical and rapid diagnostic tool to assess the mating competitiveness of released males against wild counterparts for receptive females . Our report details the optimisation of rhodamine B labelling of male seminal fluid and visible body staining via sugar-feeding with no significant impact on survival or mating competitiveness , as well as proof-of-principle field releases . These results reveal rhodamine B labelling to be an economical and rapid evaluation method for male-based control strategies as well as a viable body marking technique for male focused mark-release-recapture experiments without the negative side-effects of traditional marking methods . The use of this method has the potential to enable operators to determine the efficacy of their control method quickly and easily , allowing them to optimise releases to achieve optimal population suppression .
Induction of protective immunity involves the expression of inflammatory cytokines , proteins that mediate and respond to immune signals . However , excessive cytokine induction can lead to disease , including , at very high levels , lethal toxic shock . Staphylococcal and streptococcal superantigens are a broad family of bacterial protein toxins that induce such a lethal cytokine storm , orders of magnitude higher in intensity than that elicited during normal immune responses . A key participant in every immune response is the costimulatory receptor CD28 , which forms a protein dimer to mediate the immune response . Hitherto , CD28 was not known to bind microbial components . Here , we show that superantigens co-opt CD28 as their receptor and that to induce a cytokine storm , superantigens must bind directly into the dimer interface of CD28 . The interaction between CD28 and the bacterial superantigen can be blocked with peptides—short protein fragments that mimic the contact domains in the intact superantigen or in CD28 . These peptides attenuate inflammatory cytokine gene induction and thus protect animals from lethal toxic shock . Our finding that CD28 is a receptor for the superantigen toxins broadens the scope of microbial pathogen recognition mechanisms and provides a novel approach for designing therapeutics that protect against toxic shock .
Studying how to safely expand stem cells in culture is essential for regenerative medicine applications . Hence there is a clear need to decode how the cell cycle of mouse embryonic stem cells ( mESCs ) is regulated . Tcf3 and Tcf1 belong to the Tcf family of proteins . Tcf/Lef are effectors of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway and Tcf3 controls mESC pluripotency . Here we identified a recruitment site for Tcf1 embedded into a number of cell cycle repressor genes such as p15Ink4b , p16Ink4a and p19Arf . Tcf1-mediated activation of these genes drastically slows down proliferation of mESCs . In conclusion , here we showed that the Wnt pathway , besides controlling mESC pluripotency via Tcf3 , also regulates mESC cell cycle through the recruitment of Tcf1 to the regulatory sites of key cell cycle genes .
Dengue is an important endemic tropical disease to which there are no specific therapeutics or approved vaccines . Currently several aspects of pathophysiology remain incompletely understood . A crucial cellular population for viral infections , the plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ) was analyzed in this study . The authors found an in vivo association between the activation state of pDCs and the disease outcome . Membrane TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) expressing pDCs , representing activated pDCs , were found in higher frequency in milder cases of dengue than severe cases or healthy individuals . Detection of antiviral cytokine interferon-alpha ( IFN-α ) and soluble TRAIL positively correlated with pDC activation . Dengue virus ( DENV ) serotype-2 was able to directly activate pDCs in vitro . Under DENV stimulation TRAIL was relocalized from intracellular to pDC plasma membrane and IFN-α was highly produced . The authors suggest an endocytosis-dependent pathway for DENV-induced pDC activation . It is also highlighted here a role for exogenous IFN-α and pDCs in reducing viral replication in monocytes , one of DENV main target cells . These findings may contribute in the future to the establishment of good prognostic immune responses together with clinical manifestations/warning signs .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) is the leading cause of death due to infectious disease in the world today . It is estimated that 2 billion people are currently infected , and although most people have latent infection , reactivation occurs due to factors such as HIV-1 and aging . Antibiotic treatments exist; however , there is still no cure and the current vaccine has proven to be unreliable . Experimental science has uncovered a plethora of immune factors that help the host control infection and maintain latency . One such factor , tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) , is a protein that facilitates cell–cell communication during an inflammatory immune response . Animal models have shown that TNF is necessary for control of TB infection . Different types of anti-TNF drugs were developed for patients with non-TB related inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease . Some of these patients who had latent TB suffered reactivation , especially with one drug type . Because these studies cannot be performed in the mouse , and nonhuman primates are expensive , we developed a computational model to perform virtual clinical trials ( VCTs ) that predicted why reactivation occurs and why it happens differentially between the two classes of drugs tested . We make recommendations on how this issue can be combated .
Many retrogenes , long considered to be genomic “junk” , were recently revealed as vitally important . Retroposition plays an important role in shaping differences between species , populations and individuals . Variation may result either from new retroposition events and/or retrocopy loss , as well as from differences in retrocopy expression . Genome analysis of 1092 individuals from various populations and transcriptomes from 50 individuals , revealed differences between populations in the frequency of transcriptionally active ancient retrocopy loss , as well as differences in retrocopy expression levels . Overall , these results provide new insights into the genomic events of inter-population variation , which has not been evaluated much with respect to gene loss .
The cystic larvae of the pork tapeworm Taenia solium may affect the human brain causing neurocysticercosis ( NCC ) , a very frequent cause of neurological symptoms in developing countries . The clinical expression and response to treatment of human NCC are related to the location of cysticerci inside ( intraparenchymal ) or outside the brain parenchyma ( extraparenchymal NCC ) . We used a naturally infected pig model to assess the characteristics of inflammation around brain cysticerci of parenchymal , meningeal and mixed locations . There were no major differences in inflammation without treatment . After antiparasitic treatment with praziquantel , inflammation around parenchymal brain cysticerci increased in comparison to meningeal located cysticerci . Cysticerci partially surrounded by both brain parenchyma and meninges showed increased inflammation in relation to the extent of the cysticercus in the brain parenchyma . The location of cysticerci within the brain is a factor that determines the extent and degree of the immune response following anticysticidal treatment . Similar changes may occur in treated human infections . Our work could contribute to explain the differences in response to antiparasitic treatment in different forms of human neurocysticercosis .
Yaws is a chronic bacterial infection of the skin and bones that is endemic in Ghana . Since 2012 , mass distribution of the antibiotic azithromycin has become the cornerstone of the WHO yaws eradication campaign . Accurate surveillance data are necessary to guide decisions about where MDA is required . Many national surveillance systems report only clinical cases without laboratory confirmation , which may lead to misdiagnosis . Mass distribution of azithromycin , at a lower dose than is used for yaws , is also used in the control of the eye disease trachoma . Between 2001 and 2008 , two regions of Ghana undertook distribution of azithromycin to eliminate trachoma . These regions still report cases of yaws , and it is unclear if these are due to drug resistant yaws or other causes . We conducted a survey of patients with skin ulcers that looked like yaws in one of these regions of Ghana . Blood tests for yaws were negative in all the individuals examined and molecular testing of the ulcers did not show evidence of yaws caused by drug resistant Treponema pallidum ssp . pertenue . Our data suggest that previous treatment for trachoma may have also treated yaws in these districts . These findings highlight the need for yaws control programmes to integrate diagnostic testing into surveillance .
HIV persists in infected hosts in a small number of CD4 + memory T cells as latently infected proviruses . Homeostatic cytokines , which play a major role in the maintenance of T cell memory , also enable the persistence of latently infected cells . The pathways downstream of these homeostatic cytokines are well known and drugs that target these pathways have been developed and have been safely used in inflammatory diseases and in myelofibrosis . We have used these drugs to inhibit the maintenance and the spread of HIV infected cells carrying latent forms of the virus . We show that ruxolitinib and tofacitinib will inhibit the expansion of these cells and their capacity to infect other cells upon reactivation . This class of drugs is currently being tested in clinical trials .
Baculoviruses are large DNA viruses that infect invertebrates , mainly insects from the order Lepidoptera . They were first discovered to cause insects' epizootics and are now used worldwide as biocontrol agents . Extensive studies on baculovirus biology led to the discovery that they can serve as expression vectors in insect cells; recently they have also been considered as vectors for gene therapy . Baculovirus infection , like many other oral infections , starts with the invasion of the gut by viruses; the gut is a compartment colonized by a community of resident microbiota . In this study , we observed that baculovirus infection leads to the decreased expression of immune-related genes in a Spodoptera exigua cell culture as well as in the larval gut . Gut microbial loads were found to increase after baculovirus infection . A series of bioassays showed that the baculovirus performs better in the presence of microbiota in the gut . Our study shows that baculovirus infection leads to increase of microbiota loads in the gut and that the gut microbiota play a significant role in insect immunity and susceptibility to viral infections . These findings suggest that gut microbiota can be manipulated to improve biocontrol strategies that employ baculoviruses .
In the life cycle of sexual organisms , a specialized cell division—meiosis—reduces the number of chromosomes from two sets ( 2n , diploid ) to one set ( n , haploid ) , while fertilization restores the original chromosome number . In contrast , mitosis produces two identical daughter cells . Basically , three features distinguish meiosis from mitosis . Meiosis has: ( i ) a succession of two rounds of division following a single replication , ( ii ) recombination , and ( iii ) co-segregation of sister chromatids at the first division . In this study , we identified a gene that controls one of these three features— entry into the second meiotic division—in the sexual plant Arabidopsis thaliana . By combining a mutation in this gene with two other mutations—one that eliminates recombination and another that modifies chromatid segregation—we created a genotype ( called MiMe for mitosis instead of meiosis ) in which meiosis is totally replaced by mitosis . As a consequence , MiMe plants produced diploid male and female gametes that are genetically identical to their parent , and ploidy doubles at each generation . The replacement of meiosis by mitosis is a key component of apomixis , or clonal reproduction through seeds , which has potential revolutionary application in crop improvement .
Identifying the genes causing genetic disease is a key challenge in human health , and a crucial step on the road for developing novel diagnostics and treatments . Modern discovery methods involve genome-wide association studies that reveal regions of the genome where the causal gene is likely to reside , and then prioritizing the candidate genes within these regions and experimentally examining the most promising candidates' potential influence on the disease . Many computational methods were developed to automatically prioritize candidate genes . Some of the most successful methods use a biological network of interacting genes or proteins as an input . However , these networks – and subsequently , these methods – do not take into account the differences between tissues . In other words , a heart disease is analyzed using the same network as a skin disease . We constructed tissue-specific protein interaction networks and explored their effect on an existing prioritization algorithm by comparing the algorithm's performance on the tissue-specific networks and the generic network . We find that integrating tissue-specific data indeed leads to better prioritization . We also used the prioritization results of different tissues in order to suggest new disease-tissue associations .
Malaria results in hundreds of thousands of deaths annually . The two most effective malaria control interventions have been insecticide treated bed nets and indoor residual spraying of insecticides but their successes are now threatened by insecticide resistance in mosquitoes . Insecticide deployment strategies can be designed to try to minimise the spread of insecticide resistance . We develop a highly flexible model of the evolution of insecticide resistance which we use to assess the relative performance of two insecticide deployment strategies: two insecticides used in sequence ( where one is replaced by the other once a resistance threshold is reached ) or as a mixture ( where they are applied together ) . The relative performance of the strategies depended on the input parameter values that are likely to depend on the insecticide properties and local malaria transmission patterns . In the parameter space we explored , mixtures were favoured when insecticide effectiveness ( ability to kill wildtype susceptible mosquitoes ) was high and exposure ( the proportion of mosquitoes that encounter the insecticide ) was low . If insecticides do not reliably kill susceptible mosquitoes , it is likely that sequential deployment will be better . This flexible model is designed to enable detailed exploration of deployment issues and their influence on the strategies most likely to minimise the evolution of insecticide resistance .
Chagas disease is caused by the Trypanosoma cruzi protozoan , which is transmitted to vertebrates through the feces of infected triatomines during blood sucking . The vascular injury caused by the bite triggers mechanisms capable of preventing the association with hosts , such as immune response , inflammation and haemostasis . However , hematophagous insects are able to counteract these defenses through a complex repertoire of salivary molecules that have specific targets in the host . Our results show that R . neglectus salivary glands express different protein gene families , possessing multi-functional features directly related to different anti-haemostatic activities . For instance , lipocalins are proteins possessing anti-coagulant and vasodilator functions . Saliva contents have evolved to adapt to blood-feeding habit , ensuring the maintenance of blood flow , the success of the meal , and transmission of diseases .
Transcriptional profiling is often used to identify genes that are differentially regulated in response to different environments . These experiments assume that genes differentially expressed in response to different environments are functionally important and , furthermore , that the degree of differential gene expression is predictive of the magnitude of functional importance . In genetic experiments , function is inferred from analyzing the phenotypes of removing , reducing or altering gene function . However , to date , there has not been a specific test of how well the degree of differential gene expression between two ( or more ) environments is predictive of gene function . Here we identified C . elegans genes that were differentially expressed in response to different bacterial environments and determined the phenotypic differences of life history traits between these environments using mutant strains that compromised gene function . We found that differential gene expression is indeed predictive of functional importance of the identified genes in different environments . This observation has important implications for interpreting the results of transcriptional profiling experiments of populations of organisms in their native environments , where in many cases the genetic tools to disrupt gene function have not yet been fully developed or interfering with gene functions in nature may not be feasible .
A critical event in mammalian embryo development is construction of a mass of embryonic stem cells surrounded by a distinct shell that later forms the placenta along with other structures . Despite sustained investigation , multiple hypotheses for what is responsible for this organization persist and it remains unclear what is responsible for the robust organization ( remarkable ability for embryos to pattern correctly ) of these structures . Here , we utilize multi-scale , stochastic modeling along with fluorescence imaging to investigate the factors that contribute to the incredible robustness of this organizational process . Results point to two factors that contribute to this robustness: 1 ) the timing and pace of cell fate specification and 2 ) stochastic gene regulatory effects . The former creates a window of time during which each cell can continually read their environment and adjust their gene expressions ( and consequently fate ) in response to dynamic rearrangements of cells arising from cell divisions and motions . The latter improves cell plasticity , providing the capability for cells to adjust to changes in their local environment . Fluorescence imaging results demonstrate that the magnitude and structure of gene expression variations match those predicted to promote organizational robustness .
Human antibodies are critical for eradication of viral and bacterial infections , while providing the basis for immunological memory . Antibody protein molecules are encoded by several recombined germline gene segments prior to antigen exposure . The initial set of antibodies that are generated by recombination in the bone marrow is the antigen-naïve antibody repertoire . It is of great interest to know how a finite set of such germline gene-encoded antibodies can recognize the large number of possible foreign antigens . A current hypothesis in the field suggests that antibodies encoded by germline gene segments are structurally flexible and able to accommodate binding to many antigens , much like one glove fitting the shape of many hands . The phenomenon of one structure binding to many targets is known as polyspecificity . Here we further support this hypothesis by showing that entire antibody protein variable regions encoded by germline gene segments are close to ideal for polyspecificity . We used computational design algorithms to explore antibody sequence space rapidly and predict optimal sequences to achieve polyspecificity . The resulting designed sequences recapitulated the germline gene segment sequences and highlighted residues critical for achieving polyspecificity . These results suggest how a finite set of antibody germline gene segments can encode antibodies that can engage a large number of antigens .
Locusts such as Schistocerca gregaria , Locusta migratoria , and Chortoceites terminifera periodically form highly destructive plagues responsible for billions of dollars in crop losses in Africa , the Middle East , Asia , and Australia . These locusts usually exist in the so-called solitarious behavioral phase and seek isolation; gregarious individuals , however , are attracted to conspecifics . Previous experimental work has uncovered the causes of phase change in individual insects: principally , sustained exposure to sparse or crowded conditions . An open problem is to understand the intrinsic roles that phase change and social interaction play in the transition from an initially disperse , solitarious population to an aggregated , destructive marching hopper band of gregarious individuals . To this end , we construct a mathematical model that describes the interplay of phase change and spatial dynamics . Through analysis and numerical simulations , we determine a critical density threshold for gregarious band formation and quantify the collective phase change over time . We also discuss implications of our work for preventative management strategies and for possible future biological experiments .
The fusion of cellular lipid membranes is an essential process in all forms of life . Such membranes are also part of a specific structural class of viruses—so-called enveloped viruses—that include influenza virus , HIV , severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus , Ebola virus , yellow fever virus , and many others . The fusion of the viral with a cellular membrane is a key step in the life cycle of these viruses and allows the delivery of their genetic information into cells . This entry step is controlled by specific proteins at the viral surface that are primed to undergo dramatic structural changes and thus drive membrane fusion . An interference with this process can be a powerful means for inhibiting virus replication and fusion inhibitors have recently become a valuable addition to the armamentarium of anti-HIV treatments . In the present study , we identified an intermediate of the fusion pathway of flaviviruses , which comprise mosquito- and tick-transmitted viruses such as yellow fever , dengue , West Nile , Japanese encephalitis , and tick-borne encephalitis viruses . This work has generated further insights into the mechanism of flavivirus membrane fusion and can thus provide new leads for the development of antiviral agents against these important human pathogens .
The rapid loss of biodiversity is the most significant ecological challenge we face today . Over the past few years , the International Union for Conservation of Nature has published Red Lists documenting the inexorable slide towards extinction of species; recent losses include the Hawaiian crow , golden toad , Baiji dolphin , and the West African black rhino . In groups we know well , such as mammals , the risk of extinction has been related to biology , with the most vulnerable species tending to be large , slow breeding , and narrowly distributed . Although plants are the basis for life on Earth , our knowledge of the drivers of plant extinctions is poor . Here , we disentangle the causes of plant extinctions . We show that the processes linked with extinction risks in plants of the Cape , South Africa differ from those for vertebrates more generally . The most vulnerable species are found within young and fast-evolving plant lineages , opposite to patterns in vertebrates . Our results illustrate the intricate link between the processes of speciation and extinction . We also show that the most threatened species are marching towards extinction at faster rates , but surprisingly , the risk appears independent of human effects .
The opportunistic yeast Candida albicans is a commensal organism of the human digestive tract , but also the most common cause of human fungal infections . Phagocytosis , the process by which innate immune cells engulf pathogens , is vital to prevent C . albicans infections . The major phagocytic receptor involved in anti-fungal immunity is Dectin-1 . We identify two new interacting proteins of Dectin-1 in macrophages: Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase ( BTK ) and Vav1 . In the course of phagocytosis , different phosphoinositides ( PIs ) are formed in the phagosomal membrane to allow the recruitment of proteins equipped with specialized lipid-interaction domains . We show that BTK and Vav1 colocalize with the lipid PI ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P3 at the phagocytic cup , but not with diacylglycerol ( DAG ) , which marks more mature phagosomal membranes . Inhibition of BTK affects the production of DAG and the recruitment of DAG-interacting proteins . BTK and Vav1 are essential for C . albicans immune responses , as BTK- or Vav1-deficient macrophages show reduced uptake of C . albicans and BTK- or Vav1-deficient deficient mice are more susceptible to systemic C . albicans infection . This work identifies an important role for BTK and Vav1 in immune responses against C . albicans .
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a pathogen that causes a vector-borne tropical disease . The disease affects ruminants and humans and severely impacts the health and economy of affected countries . Madagascar was heavily affected by Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) in 2008–2009 , with evidence of a large and heterogeneous spread of the disease . Our study aims at identifying environmental and human-related risk factors for RVFV transmission . First , we characterized Malagasy environments according to their putative influence on RVFV mosquito density and population dynamics . Then we statistically analyzed cattle and human serological data collected at a national level with the individual serological status as response , and Malagasy environments previously characterized by climatic and landscape variables as well as other potential risk factors as explanatory variables . Our results identified humid environments of the western , north-western and eastern parts of the island as risky areas . The identification of at-risk environments is essential to focus veterinary surveillance and control of RVFV .
Prions , self-propagating protein conformations and causative agents of lethal neurodegenerative diseases , present a serious public health threat: they can arise sporadically and then spread by transmission to the same , as well as other , species . The risk of infecting humans with prions originating in wild and domestic animals is determined by the so-called transmission barriers . These barriers are attributed to differences in prion proteins from different species , but their underlying mechanisms are not clear . Recent findings that the prion state is transmitted through the interaction between short transmitting regions within prion domains revealed one type of transmission barrier , where productive templating is impeded by non-matching amino acids within transmitting regions . Here we present studies of the prion domain of the [PIN+]-forming protein , Rnq1 , and describe a distinct type of transmission barrier not involving individual amino acid mismatches in the transmitting regions . Rnq1's prion domain is complex and encompasses four regions that can independently transmit the prion state . Our data suggest that multiple prion determinants of a complex prion domain act cooperatively to attain the prion conformation , and transmission barriers occur between protein variants that cannot form the same higher order structure , despite the identity of the region ( s ) driving the transmission .
Deep learning is an active area of research in machine learning which has been applied to various challenging problems in computer science over the past several years , breaking long-standing records of classification accuracy . Here , we apply deep learning to develop a novel likelihood-free inference framework to estimate population genetic parameters and learn informative features of DNA sequence data . As a concrete example , we focus on the challenging problem of jointly inferring natural selection and demographic history .
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HPV ) causes nearly all cervical and many other anogenital cancers , and oropharyngeal cancers . As cisplatin is the most commonly used drug for cervical and HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancers , it is important to understand how HPV oncogenes disrupt the Fanconi anemia ( FA ) pathway involved primarily in the repair of cisplatin-induced DNA crosslinks . However , the mechanism by which HPV E6 and E7 attenuate the FA pathway is poorly understood . We demonstrate that E6/E7 expression disrupts crosslink repair and increase cisplatin sensitivity , and attenuate the FA pathway through multiple unique mechanisms . First , E6/E7 causes accumulation of FancD2 , a central component of the FA pathway , at the sites away from DNA damage . This results in reduced recruitment of Rad51 , another repair protein involved in the pathway . Second , E6 causes delayed FancD2 de-ubiquitination , an important process for effective repair . Third , E6 expressing cells decreases the expression and foci formation of Palb2 repair protein . Together , this work elucidates the mechanisms by which HPV attenuates the repair of DNA crosslinks increasing cisplatin cytotoxicity and efficacy in treating HPV-positive cancers .
The absence of infective larvae of Onchocerca volvulus in the black fly vector of this parasite and reduction of exposure to and new infections with O . volvulus are the criteria currently used to certify focal interruption of parasite transmission . In the present study , we report entomological and epidemiological assessments in the Southern Chiapas focus of Mexico that together indicates that transmission of O . volvulus has been interrupted in this focus . None of the Simulium ochraceum s . l . vector black flies collected from sentinel and extra-sentinel communities in this focus during the 2011 transmission season was found to contain parasite DNA when tested by PCR-ELISA , suggesting vector parasite contact was nearly nonexistent . In addition , there was a minimal exposure to the parasite in children 5 years of age and under , as measured by circulating antibody to a parasite-specific antigen . The Southern Chiapas focus was the major focus in Mexico and one of the largest in Latin America , with well-documented history of active transmission prior to the commencement of Mectizan mass distribution . This study demonstrates the interruption of transmission in geographically large focus in Latin America with a historically high intensity of transmission .
Experimental evidence has established that bacteria do not always exist as isolated single celled organisms , but instead communicate with each other through the secretion of small molecules that enable individual cells to coordinate complex traits and behaviors . Gram-positive bacteria rely on the secretion of small peptide pheromones to coordinate activities that include biofilm formation , exogenous DNA uptake via competence mechanisms , conjugal transfer of plasmid DNA , and expression of gene products that promote bacterial virulence . Here we provide evidence of a novel use of bacterial peptide pheromone signaling , that being the use of the pPplA peptide by L . monocytogenes to detect the confines of host cell vacuoles . Secretion and import of pPplA is required for efficient escape of L . monocytogenes from its initial membrane-bound host cell compartment , and bacteria lacking the peptide pheromone are severely attenuated for virulence in mice . The pPplA peptide pheromone is thus used by individual bacteria within a confined membrane bound space to coordinate the expression of gene products required by L . monocytogenes for intracellular growth and survival .
Cholera is a devastating diarrheal disease that is still endemic to many developing nations , with the worst outbreak in history having occurred recently in Yemen . Vibrio cholerae , the causative agent of cholera , transitions from aquatic reservoirs to the human gastrointestinal tract , where it expresses virulence factors to facilitate colonization of the small intestines and to combat host innate immune effectors , such as reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . We applied a genome-wide transposon screen ( Tn-seq ) and identified that deletion of mutS , which is part of DNA mismatch repair system , drastically increased colonization in ROS-rich mice . The deletion of mutS led to the accumulation of catalase-overproducing mutants and a high frequency rugose phenotype when exposed to ROS selective pressures in vivo . Additionally , ROS elevated mutation frequency in wildtype , both in vitro and in vivo . Our data imply that V . cholerae may modulate mutation frequency as a temporal adaptive strategy to overcome oxidative stress and to enhance infectivity .
During meiosis , diploid germ cells that become eggs or sperm undergo a single round of DNA replication followed by two consecutive chromosomal divisions . The segregation of chromosomes at the first meiotic division is dependent in most organisms on at least one genetic exchange , or crossover event , between chromosome homologs . Homologs that do not receive a crossover frequently undergo nondisjunction at the first meiotic division , yielding gametes that lack chromosomes or contain additional copies . Such events have been linked to human disease and infertility . Recent studies suggest that the Mlh1-Mlh3 complex is an endonuclease that resolves recombination intermediates into crossovers . Interestingly , this complex also acts as a matchmaker in DNA mismatch repair ( MMR ) to remove DNA replication errors . How does one complex act in two different processes ? We investigated this question by performing a mutational analysis of the baker’s yeast Mlh3 protein . Five mutations were identified that disrupted MMR but not crossing over , and one mutation disrupted crossing over while maintaining MMR . Using a combination of biochemical and genetic analyses to further characterize these mutants we illustrate the importance of protein-protein interactions for Mlh1-Mlh3’s activity . Importantly , our data illustrate how defective meiotic components can alter the outcome of meiotic recombination events . They also provide new insights for the basis of infertility syndromes .
The rising levels of drug resistance in many human infections are cause of great concern for public health . There is a repeating pattern of introduction of new drugs , rise of resistance to these drugs , and phasing out ineffective drugs once resistance has become common . With a decreasing rate of drug discovery it is important to study the dynamics of reversion back to sensitivity for drugs that are no longer in use in the host population . While it is known that fitness cost of resistance plays an important role in this reversion process , this study is the first to show that structure in the host population also heavily impacts the reversion dynamics .
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) , which are characterised by poor social interaction and repetitive behaviours , are in part caused by genetic variation . A number of genes that vary in copy number in ASD patients have been identified , many of which were known to function at the neuronal synapse . We theorised that in some cases the dosage change of multiple genes simultaneously , rather than singularly , may lead to faulty neuronal development , and contribute to ASD . To test this , we asked whether alterations in these candidate genes would cause neuronal synapse and sleep/rest changes using the fruit fly Drosophila , and validated this model using single-gene models . We considered the simultaneous change of pairs of genes that were jointly affected by a large human copy number variant ( CNVs ) , which are structural changes in the genome . In three of four CNVs , mutations in subsets of genes synergistically interacted to cause neuronal changes comparable to the single gene candidates . We also observed that the changes in synapse size followed the direction of the human gene copy number change . Finally , we show that different interactions affect the development of the synapse through different mechanisms , allowing us to identify distinct molecular alterations that illuminate the etiological heterogeneity of ASD .
Cerebral malaria is the most severe complication of Plasmodium falciparum infection . Utilizing the murine experimental model of cerebral malaria ( ECM ) , it has been found that CD8+ T cells are a key immune cell type responsible for development of cerebral pathology during malaria infection . To identify how CD8+ T cells cause cerebral pathology during malaria infection , in this study we have performed detailed in vivo analysis ( two photon imaging ) of CD8+ T cells within the brains of mice infected with strains of malaria parasites that cause or do not cause ECM . We found that CD8+ T cells appear to accumulate in similar numbers and in comparable locations within the brains of mice infected with parasites that do or do not cause ECM . Importantly , however , brain accumulating CD8+ T cells displayed significantly different movement characteristics during the different infections . CD8+ T cells interacted with myeloid cells within the brain during infection with parasites causing ECM , but this association was not required for development of cerebral complications . Furthermore , our results suggest that CD8+ T cells do not cause ECM through the widespread killing of brain microvessel cells . The results in this study significantly improve our understanding of the ways through which CD8+ T cells can mediate cerebral pathology during malaria infection .
Tungiasis even though curable , continues to cause a lot of morbidity and in some cases death to millions of people living in tropical and subtropical countries . The global burden of tungiaisis is not known unlike for most diseases which attract a lot of attention and funding . There are also gaps on the exact geographical distribution of this disease and the communities affected , hence it is largely ignored and neglected by the scientific community , the health sector , pharmaceutical industries and policy makers . As a consequence , there are no universally accepted methods to treat and control tungiasis . The study attempted to close this gap by combining geographic information system and questionnaire data to visualize the burden and risk factors of tungiasis in Vihiga County , Kenya . The researchers found that tungiasis is an important health burden in Vihiga County , Kenya and that its occurrence was associated with factors that point to poverty . These findings suggest a need to design control strategies for tungiasis that are cost effective and easily accessible by the communities affected .
After moving onto land , plants developed vascular tissues to support their weight and transport water and nutrients . Vascular tissue consists of xylem , which makes up wood , and phloem , which gives rise to the innermost bark . In the model species Arabidopsis thaliana , these tissues form in the growing root tip in a radial pattern consisting of a xylem axis and two phloem poles . Xylem is thought to be positioned by negative interactions between two plant hormones , auxin and cytokinins . Cytokinins activate exporters which pump auxin out of cells , while auxin activates a gene which blocks cytokinin response . This leads auxin to accumulate in some cells which become xylem cells . We developed a computational model which includes only the essential processes but allows them to interact in a realistic spatial context . Using this model we show that these interactions can produce the expected auxin pattern even without a pattern in cytokinin distribution , contrary to expectations based on observed patterns in cytokinin signalling . Furthermore , we learned that hormonal regulation fine-tunes the exporters’ activity , and auxin importers play an important role . The regulatory network not only ensures correct formation of the vasculature but may also position root branches on alternating sides of the xylem .
The migratory locust , Locusta migratoria , is a worldwide agricultural pest that displays a remarkable density-dependent phase polyphenism , where being kept in a crowd triggers individuals to transit from the sedentary solitarious phase into the high-active gregarious phase . So , the migratory locust has been regarded as an excellent study model for environment-induced behavioral plasticity . Our previous finding shows that NPF2-regulated NOS transcription plays important roles in phase-related locomotor plasticity in the locust . Here , we further demonstrate that phosphorylated CREB-B directly activates NOS transcription in the pars intercerebralis , thus mediates phase-related locomotor plasticity . Further studies show that the levels of CREB-B phosphorylation is positively correlated with the crowding treatment and suppressed by NPF2 . Among several candidate kinases , protein kinase A is demonstrated to transmit the inhibitory effects of NPF2 on CREB-B phosphorylation and NOS transcription . Our study provides deep insight into the precise regulatory mechanisms underlying environment-induced behavioral plasticity .
The newly fertilized eggs of most animal species begin development with a series of rapid cell divisions . During this time of rapid DNA replication , there is little or no transcription of the embryo's genome , with the synthesis of new proteins being directed by a store of maternally deposited mRNAs . Several hours after fertilization , at a period known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition ( MZT ) , transcription of the embryo's genome begins in earnest , but little is known about how this process is initiated . In this paper we investigate the role of a protein known as Zelda ( or ZLD ) at the MZT in the laboratory model insect Drosophila melanogaster . ZLD had been previously shown to control the activation of a small number of genes expressed prior to the MZT . Here , using an experimental technique ( ChIP-Seq ) that allowed us to visualize where on the genome a protein is bound , we show that , approximately an hour prior to the MZT , ZLD is bound to most of the genomic regions active at the MZT . This suggests that ZLD may act as a kind of an “on switch” for the zygotic genome , poising regions where it binds for activation at the MZT , and this raises the possibility that similar master regulators of the MZT exist in other species .
Circadian clocks are endogenous oscillators that drive daily rhythms in physiology , metabolism , and behavior . In mammals , circadian rhythms are generated within nearly every cell; and , although dysfunction of circadian clocks is associated with various diseases ( including diabetes and cancer ) , the molecular mechanisms linking the clock machinery with output pathways are little understood . Since essentially all biological processes depend on protein–protein interactions , we investigated here on a systems-wide level how time-of-day-specific protein–protein interactions contribute to the temporal organization of cellular physiology . We constructed a circadian interactome using experimentally generated protein–protein interaction data and made this network dynamic by the incorporation of time-of-day-dependent expression data . Interestingly , systematic genetic network perturbation ( RNAi and overexpression ) suggests a crucial role for circadian components involved in dynamic interactions . Systems analysis of a global network revealed that interacting proteins are in the liver significantly more expressed at similar daytimes likely to restrict regulatory interactions to specific circadian phases within cells . Overall , circadian protein–protein interactions are predicted to dynamically connect important cellular processes ( signal transduction , cell cycle , etc . ) using—very often—protein modules with components co-expressed in time , shedding new light on the daily organization of cellular physiology .
Parasitic nematode worms cause serious health problems in humans and other animals . They can induce allergic-type immune responses , which can be harmful but may at the same time protect against the infections . Allergens are proteins that trigger allergic reactions and these parasites produce a type that is confined to nematodes , the nematode polyprotein allergens ( NPAs ) . These are synthesized as large precursor proteins comprising repeating units of similar amino acid sequence that are subsequently cleaved into multiple copies of the allergen protein . NPAs bind small lipids such as fatty acids and retinol ( Vitamin A ) and probably transport these sensitive and insoluble compounds between the tissues of the worms . Nematodes cannot synthesize these lipids , so NPAs may also be crucial for extracting nutrients from their hosts . They may also be involved in altering immune responses by controlling the lipids by which the immune and inflammatory cells communicate . We describe the molecular structure of one unit of an NPA , the well-known ABA-1 allergen of Ascaris , and find its structure to be of a type not previously found for lipid-binding proteins , and we describe the unusual sites where lipids bind within this structure .
Ciguatera fish poisoning occurs throughout the tropics . After consuming contaminated coral reef fish , people report a range of acute neurologic , gastrointestinal , and cardiac symptoms , with some experiencing chronic neurologic symptoms lasting weeks to months . Ciguatera is largely caused by toxins from benthic microalgae of the genera Gambierdiscus that are bioaccumulated in reef fish through the marine food chain . Unfortunately , the true extent of illness and its impact on human communities and ecosystems are still not well understood . Using data gathered from Health and Fisheries Authorities of the Pacific Island Countries and Territories we identified a 60% increase in the annual incidence of ciguatera from 1988–2008 to 1973–1983 and estimate over 500 , 000 Pacific islanders might have suffered from ciguatera in their lifetime . The incidence of ciguatera is expected to continue to rise in conjunction with continued reef degradation and global warming , with greatest impact likely to be experienced in the developing PICTs and potentially the archipelagoes of southeast Asia . Despite this threat , little funding is available for research that might lead to better management of the problem either locally , regionally or globally .
Chagas disease is a neglected tropical disease caused by the intracellular parasite Trypanosoma cruzi . The persistence of the parasite leads to deterioration of the host immune response , which is known as an exhaustion process . This process affects T cell populations , leading to increased expression of inhibitory receptors that leads to a dysfunctional ability to respond to the parasite . CD4+CD8+ T cells form a poorly studied population of T cells in the context of Chagas disease . In this study , as in others previously reported , an increase in the frequency of these cells was observed in chronic Chagas disease patients . In addition , CD4+CD8+ T cells from chronic Chagas disease patients underwent stronger exhaustion processes with more severe disease pathology . A higher level of expression and co-expression of inhibitory receptors was observed in these cells in symptomatic compared with asymptomatic patients . Furthermore , we evaluated whether antiparasitic treatment affected the population of CD4+CD8+ T cells . Our results showed that after treatment , the functional capacity of these cells against the parasite improved . Concomitantly , a partial reversion of this exhaustion process occurred since the co-expression of inhibitory receptors decreased in CD4+CD8+ T cells from chronic patients after treatment .
Plant growth requires continuous signal transduction in response to ever-changing environment . Phosphoinositides represent primary lipid-derived signals that are involved in various plant responses to surrounding environment . However , enzymes that determine the complex phosphoinositide molecular profiles remained elusive due to the existence of a number of candidate genes for each step . Here , in Arabidopsis thaliana , we found AtPLC2 as the enzyme that is decisive in phosphoinositide metabolism by analytical lipidomics of the gene knockout study . Functional characterization of AtPLC2 knockout plant enabled us to find two novel roles of phosphoinositides: requirement in seedling growth and ER stress tolerance . Because economically important environmental stresses such as salinity and temperature upshift cause ER stress , our findings may open up a new avenue in addressing ER stress responses via phosphoinositide signaling .
We challenge the reductionist assumption by studying causal properties of physical systems across different spatiotemporal scales . The result is that–contrary to reductionist views–causal power can emerge at macro scales . Rather than relying on the traditional notion of coarse-grains ( averages ) , we introduce the notion of functional black boxes that are defined based on their input-output relationship . Using a sequence of examples , our work demonstrates that black boxes are particularly well suited to capture the heterogeneous and specialized nature of components in biological systems . While the emergence of coarse-grained systems relies on increased specificity , black-boxing reveals the importance of structure and integration . Our framework is mathematically rigorous and fully general , hence applicable across many disciplines; it is particularly useful in objectively identifying informative perspectives on complex systems in the physical sciences .
Respiration at the level of mitochondria is considered as delivery of electrons and protons from NADH or succinate to oxygen through a set of transporters constituting the respiratory chain ( RC ) . Mitochondrial respiration , dealing with transfer of unpaired electrons , may produce reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) such as O2− and subsequently H2O2 as side products . ROS are chemically very active and can cause oxidative damage to cellular components . The production of ROS , normally low , can increase under stress to the levels incompatible with cell survival; thus , understanding the ways of ROS production in the RC represents a vital task in research . We used mathematical modeling to analyze experiments with isolated brain mitochondria aimed to study relations between electron transport and ROS production . Elsewhere we reported that mitochondrial complex III can operate in two distinct steady states at the same microenvironmental conditions , producing either low or high levels of ROS . Here , this property of bistability was confirmed for the whole RC . The associations between measured ROS production and computed individual free radical levels in complexes I and III were established . The discovered phenomenon of bistability is important as a basis for new strategies in organ transplantation and therapy .
Molecular motors such as kinesin and dynein facilitate directed transport of intracellular cargo over tracks called microtubules . Inside cells , multiple motor proteins are known to bind and move cargoes . These teams of motors enable the transport of cargoes over longer distances , extending beyond the processive runlengths of a single motor . Impaired transport , possibly due to mutations that affect single motor parameters , is known to cause neurodegenerative diseases . A recent study reported that phosphorylation of a kinesin motor implicated in Huntington’s disease , leads to a reduction in the single motor stalling force . In this work , we investigate how heterogeneity in motor stall forces can affect the coordinated transport properties of multi-motor ensembles . Our model predicts that motors with reduced stall force , even when in the minority , can determine emergent transport properties of average velocity and run-length . Under appropriate external loads , our analysis predicts that motor ensembles containing mutant motors travel longer distances , potentially contributing to the dysregulation of coordinated cargo transport , impairment of neuronal function and the onset of neurodegeneration . These results are enabled by development of a novel semi-analytic methodology to study cargo transport by multiple motors with distinct transport properties . This method is computationally less extensive than existing Monte-Carlo based approaches , easy to implement , and holds potential for understanding how individual motor proteins and properties contribute to the coordination of transport by motor ensembles .
To deal with an uncertain and complex world , animals have developed a large repertoire of behavioral heuristics and default strategies that spring into action in unknown situations . Building on this a priori repertoire , animals may find various ways to succeed on a given behavioral task . Therefore , determining the exact behavioral strategy followed during a task may be essential for understanding the cognitive processes involved . Using computational models to analyze behavior , we examined how a genetic variation in a gene that encodes a calcium channel and has been associated with learning deficits influences the way in which animals acted on a task in which a reward was associated with a specific behavior . We found that a knockout of the relevant gene does not lead to a general learning impairment but rather led animals to adopt a behavioral strategy different from the one employed by the control animals . Specifically , knockout animals managed to increase their reward returns by basing their responses more on the previous reward location rather than on reward-indicating stimuli , like the controls did . These findings may prove useful for behavioral therapy in the context of psychiatric disorders associated with this specific gene variation .
There is currently great interest in using the bacterium Wolbachia to reduce the burden of dengue and Zika; viruses which infect millions of people globally each year . Aedes aegypti mosquitoes with Wolbachia infections can invade natural populations and interfere with the transmission of these viruses . However , we find that the wMel strain of Wolbachia which is currently being used for dengue and Zika control in several countries may have reduced effectiveness at invading populations when mosquitoes experience heat stress . Since mosquito larvae experience extreme temperatures in their natural habitat , our results have implications for current and future releases of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes and highlight the need for further investigation into alternative strains of Wolbachia .
Adenoviruses were originally discovered as a causative agent for upper respiratory infections , especially in children . They are now recognized as being responsible for disease in several other settings , e . g . , as the cause of infectious diarrheas or of kerato-conjunctivitis . In the 1960s , chimpanzees were found to shed adenoviruses in their stools . We now find that normal great apes ( chimpanzees , gorillas , and orangutans ) and monkeys frequently shed adenoviruses in their stools , corroborating the older finding . In contrast , data from humans have showed that adenoviral shedding in stools is fairly uncommon , being restricted to patients recovering from adenoviral infections , although adenoviruses can frequently be recovered from lymphoid tissue such as the adenoids from normal people . In the course of these investigations we have purified and characterized 30 different adenoviruses from great apes by genomic sequencing . We have compared the gene sequences of these adenoviruses to 22 human adenoviruses whose complete genome sequences are available . Even though human adenoviruses are not found in apes and vice versa , based on these sequence data we propose that it is possible that cross-species transmission events may have contributed to the natural evolution of adenoviruses found to infect humans today .
The eukaryotic genome is compactly packaged into the cell nucleus . Within the nucleus , DNA forms protein-DNA complexes called nucleosomes . The nucleosome is the fundamental structural unit of chromatin . It is composed of a histone octamer around which DNA wraps about twice . During cellular processes such as DNA transcription , replication and repair , the DNA must be unwrapped from the structure . This unwrapping has been investigated experimentally , but details of the process at the atomic level are not yet well understood . We carried out molecular dynamics simulations using an enhanced sampling method to obtain free energy profiles for unwrapping the outer superhelical turn of the nucleosomal DNA . Our analysis shows that some energy cost is required to unwrap the first 5 bps at one end of the DNA , after which a second 5 bps unwrap with no increase in free energy . The unwrapping then proceeds at the other end of the DNA for up to 10 bps . In this way , DNA unwrapping occurs asymmetrically from one end . These findings provide insight into how DNA dynamics are related to gene regulation .
This work is the result of our search for the mechanism of action of Apolipoprotein D ( ApoD ) , a neuroprotective lipid-binding protein that confers cell resistance to oxidative stress . ApoD is one of the few genes consistently over-expressed in the aging brain of all vertebrate species , and no nervous system disease has been found concurring without ApoD over-expression . All evidence supports ApoD as an endogenous mechanism of protection . We demonstrate here that this extracellular lipid binding protein is endocytosed and targeted in a finely controlled way to subsets of lysosomes in need of protection , those most sensitive to oxidative stress . ApoD reveals the existence of biologically relevant lysosomal heterogeneity that conditions the oxidation state of cells , their phagocytic or autophagic capacity , and the final output in neurodegenerative conditions . The stable presence of ApoD in lysosomes is sufficient and necessary for lysosomes to recover from oxidation-induced membrane permeabilization and loss of proton gradients . ApoD-mediated control of lysosomal membrane integrity represents a new cell-protection mechanism at the hub of many cellular functions , and is critical for the outcome of a wide variety of neurodegenerative diseases . Therapeutic opportunities open , by providing a route of entry and a repair mechanism for lysosomes in pathological situations .
Phlebotomus orientalis is the main vector of Leishmania donovani in East Africa and is , therefore , a sand fly species of high importance . We studied various properties of P . orientalis populations from both endemic ( Addis Zemen ) and non-endemic ( Melka Werer ) areas in Ethiopia . We successfully demonstrated the ability of laboratory colonies arising from these populations to crossbreed by obtaining 1st and 2nd generation hybrid progeny . Hybrids had similar or even higher fecundity than parental colonies . Comparison of the populations by sequencing of two genes ( cytB and COI ) and by RAPD ( a multilocus method ) revealed no genetic differences . We demonstrated that both populations are highly susceptible to experimental infection with L . donovani and even small numbers of parasites are able to initiate heavy infections in P . orientalis females . As the development pattern of L . donovani was similar for females from both colonies , we deduce that the absence of visceral leishmaniasis in the non-endemic area of Melka Werer cannot be attributed to different susceptibility of local P . orientalis populations to L . donovani .
Advanced schistosomiasis japonica , an extreme form of chronic schistosomiasis that occurs in Asia , is more serious than the advanced hepatosplenic disease of schistosomiasis encountered in Africa and the Americas . The advanced schistosomiasis japonica is a chronic disabling condition associated with portal hypertension , splenomegaly , ascites , and gastro-oesophageal variceal bleeding , or with severe growth retardation or granulomatous disease of the large intestine . However , the actual disability caused by advanced schistosomiasis japonica is unknown . We carried out a patient-based quality-of-life evaluation employing a standardized and widely used questionnaire ( known as “EQ-5D plus” ) , coupled with ultrasonography and laboratory tests on advanced schistosomiasis japonica cases in a hyperendemic area of China . Among 215 confirmed cases of advanced schistosomiasis japonica , we found an overall disability weight of 0 . 447 with age-specific weights ranging from 0 . 378 to 0 . 510 . Importantly , advanced schistosomiasis japonica is not only associated with heavy disability weights , but also with high morbidity and poor self-reported quality of life . Our results provide valuable data for the current revision of the Global Burden of Disease ( GBD ) study , as well as for evidence-based decision-making in China's national schistosomiasis control program .
The tsetse fly's influence on human health occurs through direct and indirect exposure pathways . Directly , the fly is a vector for the disease human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) , which it spreads to nearly 18 , 000 new victims each year . Indirectly , the fly is a vector for African Animal Trypanosomaisis ( AAT ) also known as nagana , which restricts agricultural production , limiting the availability of food and contributing to impoverished conditions across rural sub-Saharan Africa . This historical study used 1999 census data to determine the prevalence of disability among residents and migrants living within Kenya's 7 tsetse fly belts . The results showed that the HAT transmission cycle may differ for residents and migrants with mechanisms leading to exposures that are environmentally driven for residents and economically driven for migrants . The combined burdens of HAT and AAT and the opportunity costs of agricultural production in AAT areas are potential contributors to disability within these tsetse-infested areas . Incorporating reports on disability from the national census appears to be an important surveillance tool that would enhance future HAT surveillance programs in sub-Saharan Africa .
The reservoir of HIV in infected people remains an insurmountable problem in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy . Thus , the virus persists despite the best possible treatment . HIV hides in many cells and tissues , where its genome is not expressed . Thus , neither drugs nor the immune system can eradicate it from the body . One hope is to activate the production of HIV in these reservoirs in the presence of optimal treatment . Strategies aimed at activating hematopoetic cells and thus viral replication have been tried and failed . In this report , we targeted a specific host transcriptional complex that is essential for the transcription of HIV genome . Its activation should not lead to generalized stimulation of the immune system . Indeed , paradoxically , hexamethylene bisacetamide ( HMBA ) and related compounds lead to cellular differentiation and apoptosis . By studying properties of these differentiation agents , we discovered that they activate transiently transcription of HIV , be it in stable cell lines or in primary infected cells . Thus , compounds related to HMBA , some of which have now been approved for clinical use , could be tried to diminish or eliminate the reservoir of HIV in optimally treated infected individuals .
The endosymbiosis of viruses in microbes is a well-described and prevalent environmental partnership , where viruses offer their cellular host incentives of fitness in exchange for the use of their metabolic machinery . We have recently exposed this as an important factor in certain metastatic leishmaniases of South America , where the nucleic acid of a virus residing within some Leishmania parasites acts as a potent innate immunogen causing a destructive inflammatory response , which worsens disease . Leishmania RNA Virus ( LRV ) exists within many species of Leishmania as a stable infection; these LRV positive strains have been found throughout South America in cutaneous leishmaniases that are often complicated by the occurrence of infectious metastasis with an underlying hyperinflammatory response . In this report , we describe the use of an anti-dsRNA monoclonal antibody ( J2 ) , which specifically recognizes dsRNA in a quantitative and sequence-independent fashion . Refined versions of these methods could be transferred to the field as diagnostic tools for detecting the presence of LRV ( or other dsRNA viruses ) , and potentially assessing the LRV-related risk of complicated cutaneous leishmaniasis .
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) and enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) are closely-related bacterial pathogens . EHEC infection causes bloody diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome in developed nations , while EPEC is responsible for pediatric diarrhea in developing countries . Upon entry into the intestine , these pathogens form tight attachments to host cells and manipulate the cytoskeleton to create protrusions called actin pedestals . EHEC and EPEC use different mechanisms to generate actin pedestals , which are important for colonization in animal models , but it is unknown how these structures confer a colonization advantage . Our study focused on determining how hijacking the host actin cytoskeleton to form a pedestal promotes infection . We found that the EHEC pathway of pedestal formation allows for more efficient colonization of intestinal epithelial cells than the EPEC pathway . Additionally , we directly show how actin pedestals allow the bacteria to spread from one infected cell to a neighboring healthy cell . These findings advance our understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of EPEC and EHEC colonization , which is important for developing new ways to combat infections with these bacteria .
Recent pathogen research has identified extracellular vesicle ( EV ) release from many organisms . EVs are small membrane bound organelles , which have different origins , sizes and composition . It is important that the optimal EV purification method is realised in order to obtain high quality EVs to have confidence in understanding EV biology and function . In this study , the zoonotic parasite , Fasciola hepatica , was cultured as a case study to investigate the importance of EV purification from helminth culture media . Investigating two purification methods , it was found that size exclusion chromatography EV isolation led to a reduction of contaminating excretory-secretory and tegumental proteins . This research highlighted that purification methods do not isolate equivalent EV population profiles with similar EV purities and that size exclusion chromatography methods are likely better suited for downstream helminth EV studies and application development , compared to a differential centrifugation method .
The analysis of pattern-forming gene networks is largely focussed on transcriptional regulation . However , post-transcriptional events , such as translation and regulation of protein stability also play important roles in the establishment of protein expression patterns and levels . In this study , we use a reverse-engineering approach—fitting mathematical models to quantitative expression data—to analyse post-transcriptional regulation of the Drosophila gap genes Krüppel , knirps and giant , involved in segment determination during early embryogenesis . Rigorous fitting requires us to establish whether our models provide a robust and unique solution . We demonstrate , for the first time , that this can be done in the context of a complex spatio-temporal regulatory system . This is an important methodological advance for reverse-engineering developmental processes . Our results indicate that post-transcriptional regulation is not required for pattern formation , but is necessary for proper regulation of gap protein levels . Specifically , we predict that translation rates must be tuned for rapid early accumulation , and protein stability must be increased for persistence of high protein levels at late stages of gap gene expression .
Intestinal epithelial cells line the mucosal surface of the gut . They are therefore the first to encounter orally ingested pathogenic microorganisms such as rotavirus , a frequent cause of diarrhea both in humans and other mammals . Recognition of structural components of microbial pathogens is facilitated by specialized immune receptors that allow cells to mount an early host defense and restrict infection . Since rotavirus-induced disease is largely restricted to human infants and mice during the postnatal period we studied the age-dependent epithelial expression of immune receptors involved in rotavirus recognition . Strikingly , expression of one such immune receptor , Toll-like receptor 3 ( Tlr3 ) , precisely correlated with the establishment of resistance against rotavirus infection in mice . Using an oral rotavirus infection model , we confirmed that Tlr3-induced immune responses contributed to restrict rotavirus replication in adult but not neonate animals . Expression of the same innate immune receptor was also increased with age in human gut biopsies . We thus conclude that the low intestinal epithelial Tlr3 expression contributes to the age-dependent susceptibility towards rotavirus infection .
This study evaluates association of rare variants and autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) in case and control samples sequenced by two centers . Before doing association analyses , we studied how to combine information across studies . We first harmonized the whole-exome sequence ( WES ) data , across centers , in terms of the distribution of rare variation . Key features included filtering called variants by fraction of missing data , read depth , and balance of alternative to reference reads . After filtering , the vast majority of variants calls from seven samples sequenced at both centers matched . We also evaluated whether one should combine summary statistics from data from each center ( meta-analysis ) or combine data and analyze it together ( mega-analysis ) . For many gene-based tests , we showed that mega-analysis yields more power . After quality control of data from 1 , 039 ASD cases and 870 controls and a range of analyses , no gene showed exome-wide evidence of significant association . Our results comport with recent results demonstrating that hundreds of genes affect risk for ASD; they suggest that rare risk variants are scattered across these many genes , and thus larger samples will be required to identify those genes .
Madurella mycetomatis mycetoma is a chronic fungal infection , resulting frequently in mutilating lesions . The causative agents are found in soil , however , many people are exposed but most do not develop mycetoma . Characteristic for mycetoma is that the fungus organizes itself in a grain once inside the body . Here we showed that this grain contains chitin . The immune system of the host will try to eliminate the grains by producing cytokines and enzymes , including the chitin-degrading chitinases . We showed that both human chitinases AMCase and chitotriosidase bind to fungal chitin in the grain . We also investigated 4 polymorphisms in the genes for these chitinases , and we found that a polymorphism in the gene for chitotriosidase , resulting in enzyme inactivity , was associated with increased risk for mycetoma . Based on these findings , we hypothesized that chitotriosidase is important in the pathogen-eliminating immune response , resulting in clearance of the infection . We assumed that absence of chitotriosidase results in increased AMCase production and thus in grain formation . In this study we identified a risk factor for the development of M . mycetomatis mycetoma , however the disease is multifactorial and other factors also play a role .
Herpes simplex virus , which causes cold sores and genital herpes , has active and inactive ( or latent ) phases of infection that have been considered to be distinct . In this study we found that the active phase of infection , including spread in the nervous system , continues longer than has been previously appreciated . We also show evidence that virus genes previously only associated with active infection are turned on during latency . These genes are of particular interest because other work has found that they are targets of the immune response to HSV . The extent and nature of residual viral activity during latency is important to understand because it may suggest therapeutic targets to reduce recurrent HSV disease .
Accumulation of aggregates of misfolded protein in brain is a common feature of the damage seen in several neurodegenerative diseases including prion disease , Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease . In the present work three strains of prion disease differed in accumulation of the disease-associated prion protein ( PrPSc ) on neurons and astroglial cells . These patterns were first detectable in the thalamus at 40–60 days after inoculation . This coincided with initial detection of gliosis and PrPSc deposition , but was far in advance of clinical signs or spongiform pathology . In spite of the different patterns of cellular PrPSc deposition , these three strains had similar patterns of expression of a large number of genes known to be active during neuroinflammatory responses and gliosis . However , the gene upregulation in scrapie differed markedly from that seen in two neurovirulent viral diseases , which also had abundant glial responses similar to those observed with prion infection .
The chromosome architecture inside cell nuclei plays important roles in regulating cell functions . Many experimental and modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanisms controlling such organization . There are proliferations of experimental studies which report the hierarchical structure of chromosomes but how exactly they physically organize in 3D is not fully understood . In modeling , the main challenges are to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate correctly these highly dense long polymer chains . Taken into consideration the fundamental physical characteristics of chromosomes , we developed robust and numerically efficient polymer models that enabled us to explore the dynamics of long chromosomes over long time periods with good statistics . We applied this framework to investigate the dynamical folding of chromosome in drosophila . Accounting for the local biochemical information , we were able to reproduce the experimentally-measured contact frequencies between any pairs of genomic loci quantitatively and to track the hierarchical chromosome structure throughout the cell cycle . Our results further support the picture of a very dynamic chromosome organization driven by weak short-range interactions .
When interpreting genome-wide association studies showing that specific genetic variants are associated with disease risk , scientists look for a link between the genetic variant and a biological mechanism behind that disease . One functional mechanism is that the genetic variant may influence gene transcription via a co-localized genomic regulatory element , such as a transcription factor binding site within an open chromatin region . Often this type of regulation occurs in some cell types but not others . In this study , we look across eleven gene expression studies with seven cell types and consider how genetic transcription regulators , or eQTLs , replicate within and between cell types . We identify pervasive allelic heterogeneity , or transcriptional control of a single gene by multiple , independent eQTLs . We integrate extensive data on cell type specific regulatory elements from ENCODE to identify general methods of transcription regulation through enrichment of eQTLs within regulatory elements . We also build a classifier to predict eQTL replication across cell types . The results in this paper present a path to an integrative , predictive approach to improve our ability to understand the mechanistic basis of human phenotypic variation .
Though there is no HIV-1 vaccine available yet , significant progress has been made in understanding the envelope protein structure and the antibodies that bind to it . While most secreted or cell surface eukaryotic proteins contain several large , complex sugar groups , the HIV-1 envelope protein is covered in dense groups of polysaccharides . These sugars are of an intermediate , “high-mannose” form not typically found on eukaryotic proteins . A number of potent antibodies against HIV-1 have been discovered that specifically require these intermediate sugars to bind . This presents a challenge for vaccine production , as the cells used to produce most biopharmaceutical proteins , including previous HIV-1 vaccine candidates , have been selected to incorporate fully processed sugar groups , beyond the intermediate form found on the envelope protein . To address this problem , we used the clustered regularly interspaced palindromic repeat ( CRISPR ) /CRISPR-associated protein 9 ( Cas9 ) gene editing system to create a Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line that limits the sugar processing to the intermediate , high-mannose form . This paper describes the gene editing process , cell line selection , and antibody binding to the HIV-1 envelope produced . This line is capable of producing envelope proteins that bind the sugar-dependent antibodies , while possessing acceptable growth and production volume characteristics for large-scale manufacturing .
Here , we describe the structure of trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase ( T6PP ) from Brugia malayi . This enzyme is essential to the organism; deletion of the gene encoding T6PP results in toxic accumulation of trehalose 6-phosphate . Structure-guided mutagenesis coupled with kinetic analyses revealed residues important for binding and catalysis . The model for substrate binding suggests a binding mode in which shape complementarity plays a major role . Conservation of binding residues among T6PP orthologs present in pathogenic nematodes and bacteria favors T6PP as a suitable target for broad-range anthelmintic and antibacterial drug design .
The structure of tumours varies widely , with dense and chaotically-formed networks of blood vessels that differ between each individual tumour and even between different regions of the same tumour . This atypical environment can inhibit the delivery of anti-cancer therapies . Computational tools are urgently required which facilitate a deeper understanding of the relationship between blood vessel architectures and therapeutic response . We have developed a computational framework which integrates the complex tumour vascular architecture to predict fluid transport across all lengths scales in whole tumours . We apply our model to two tumour cell-lines and show that differences in their inherent vascular structures influence flow through cancerous tissue . We also use our platform to predict the fluid dynamic response following vascular normalization therapy in realistic , static tumour networks and show that the response is dependent on tumour vascular architecture . We hypothesise that therapy may alter the permeability of interstitial tissue to fluid transport and show that lowering interstitial fluid pressure is not a necessary therapeutic outcome to increase tumour perfusion .
HIV is known to spread both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell , however the relative importance of the cell-cell transmission mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved . Design of vaccines attempt to inhibit HIV entry into target cells as do engineered entry inhibitors used as therapeutics . While these agents are known to block the entry of cell-free HIV particles into cells , to what extent cell-cell transmission is vulnerable to such inhibition is unclear . Here we report that the activity of neutralizing antibodies and inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action . A prominent class of neutralizing antibodies directed to the CD4 binding site on the virus envelope very efficiently blocks binding of the virus to its primary receptor on target cells , the CD4 molecule . These types of antibodies are elicited in natural infection and once isolated from infected individuals have shown to be highly potent . Why HIV still replicates in the presence of such potent antibodies remains unclear . Here we show that these CD4 binding site antibodies are dramatically less potent inhibitors of cell-cell transmission , and therefore act preferentially by blocking free virus transmission while allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contact .
Exerting visual attention results in profound changes in the activity of neurons in visual areas of the brain . Attention increases the firing of some neurons , decreases that of others , moves and resizes the receptive fields of individual neurons , and changes their preferred features according to what is being attended . How are these complex , subtle effects generated ? While several models explain various subsets of these effects , a consistent explanation compatible with anatomical and physiological observations remains elusive . Here we show that the apparently complex and multifaceted effects of attention on neural responses can be explained as the automatic consequence of a top-down modulation , falling on higher visual areas ( as suggested by anatomical observations ) , and interacting with short-range inhibition and feedback connections between areas . Our model only assumes the existence of well-known features of brain organization ( reciprocal inter-area connections , mutual inhibition between neighboring neurons ) to explain a wide range of attentional effects , including apparently finely-tuned effects ( complex shifts in feature preferences , automatic scaling of competitive effects to receptive field size , resizing or shifting of receptive fields , etc ) . Our model also makes novel , testable predictions about the effect of certain attentional manipulations on neural responses .
A specific microenvironment termed the “niche” supports long term maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells in vertebrates . A small group of specialised cells called the posterior signalling center ( PSC ) controls hemocyte ( blood cell ) homeostasis in the Drosophila larval hematopoietic tissue and thus fulfills a similar function to the vertebrate niche . The PSC acts at a distance to maintain JAK/STAT signalling in hematopoietic progenitors ( prohemocytes ) , thereby ensuring their multipotent character . We report here that a short cytokine receptor encoded by CG14225/latran is required to extinguish JAK/STAT signalling in prohemocytes and thereby ensures their mass differentiation into lamellocytes , an immune cell type required to fight specific threats such as wasp parasitism . Domeless , a related receptor in Drosophila , was previously the only known cytokine receptor that signals through the JAK/STAT pathway . We show that Latran lacks the intracellular domains required for signal transduction and acts instead by antagonizing the function of Domeless in a dose-dependent manner . The role of Drosophila Latran in the repression of JAK/STAT signalling under specific immune conditions raises the question of whether short , nonsignalling receptors that antagonize full-length receptors could also control specific aspects of vertebrate immunity .
Genetic recombination between viruses is a form of parasexual reproduction during which two parental viruses each contribute genetic information to an offspring , or recombinant , virus . Unlike with sexual reproduction , however , recombination in viruses can even involve the transfer of sequences between the members of distantly related species . When parental genomes are very distantly related , it is anticipated that recombination between them runs the risk of producing defective offspring . The reason for this is that the interactions between different parts of genomes and the proteins they encode ( such as between different viral proteins or between viral proteins and the virus genomic DNA or RNA ) often depend on particular co-evolved binding sites that recognize one another . When in a recombinant genome the partners in a binding site pair are each inherited from different parents there is a possibility that they will not interact with one another properly . Here we examine recombinant genomes arising during experimental mixed infections of two distantly related viruses to detect evidence that intra-genome interaction networks are broadly preserved in these genomes . We show this preservation is so strict that patterns of recombination in these viruses can even be used to identify the interacting regions within their genomes .
Genome sequences as well as epigenetic states , such as DNA methylation or nucleosome binding patterns , change during evolution . But what is the causal relationship between the two ? We already know that nucleotide variation within and between species is distributed unevenly around nucleosome footprints , but does this mean that sequence evolution follows a biased course because the presence of nucleosomes affects mutation and DNA repair dynamics ? Or is it , in fact , the other way around , i . e . changes happen at the DNA level and prompt shifts in nucleosome positioning ? To investigate the direction of causality in genetic versus epigenetic evolution , we analyze substitutions patterns in eukaryotes as well as the archaeon Haloferax volcanii in the context of genome-wide nucleosome binding maps . We demonstrate that the relationship between nucleosome positions and between-species divergence patterns , strikingly similar in eukaryotes and archaea , can be explained in large parts by nucleosomes shifting positions in response to substitution , although both mutation and selection biases might still exist . Our results illustrate that it is important to consider the direction of causality between epigenetic and genetic change when analyzing patterns of sequence divergence and using sequence conservation to infer selection on epigenetic states .
Conformational diversity of proteins can be associated to different aspects related to biological function . In particular , ligand binding can be analyzed in terms of the so-called ligand-free and ligand-bound conformations of a protein . These conformations co-exist as local minima within the energy landscape of proteins . The conformational change between them is achieved by their intramolecular vibrational dynamics . Therefore , it is expected that vibrational motions involved in the unbound-to-bound conformational change are evolutionary preserved . Herein , we present a novel procedure to identify key positions whose mutations have a significant effect on these particular vibrational motions . These key positions represent dynamically important sites that mediate the ligand-binding conformational change . They are shown to be evolutionary conserved , mostly buried aliphatic residues localized in regular structural regions of the protein like β-sheets and α-helix . These results contribute to improve our understanding on structure-function relationship as well as functional diversification during evolution .
The development of new chemotherapies targeting Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) will benefit from genetic evaluation of potential drug targets and a better understanding of the pathways required by Mtb to establish and maintain chronic infections . We employed a genetic approach to investigate the essentiality of fructose-1 , 6-bisphosphate aldolase ( FBA ) for growth and survival of Mtb in vitro and in mice . A conditional fba mutant revealed that Mtb requires FBA for growth in the acute phase and for survival in the chronic phase of mouse infections . In vitro essentiality of fba was strictly condition-dependent . An FBA deletion mutant ( Δfba ) required a balanced combination of carbon substrates entering metabolism above and below the FBA-catalyzed reaction for growth and died in media with single carbon sources and in mouse lungs . Death of Δfba in vitro was associated with the perturbation of intracellular metabolites . These studies highlight how a conditional fba mutant helped identify conditions in which FBA is dispensable for growth of Mtb , evaluate FBA as a potential target for eliminating persistent bacilli and offer insight into metabolic regulation of carbon co-catabolism in Mtb .
Leishmania are insect-borne protozoan parasites that cause leishmaniasis , a spectrum of diseases with relevance in men and dogs and for which there are no adequate means of control . In order to successfully infect their mammalian hosts , Leishmania requires the expression of a set of key proteins . Here , we identify one mitochondrial protein of the parasite as one of such molecules . Interestingly , however , we also discovered that the reason why this enzyme is essential is not due to its well characterized peroxidase activity , which defines it as a member of the peroxiredoxin family . Instead , the importance of this protein during infection may derive from its ability to function as a chaperone , as implied here . In short , by proposing a novel , peroxidase-unrelated role for the Leishmania mitochondrial peroxiredoxin during mammals' infection , this work opens new perspectives regarding the physiologic function of this enzyme .
Histoplasmosis is an endemic mycosis in many regions of Latin America . In the HIV population it manifests as progressive disseminated histoplasmosis ( PDH ) , an entity hard to diagnose since the causative fungi—Histoplasma capsulatum—is slow growing and requires advance biosafety for its handling . As an alternative , the diagnosis can be made by detecting the histoplasma urinary antigen , but only one kit is commercially available outside the US . We evaluated this kit ( IMMY ALPHA Histoplasma EIA ) among HIV patients with suspected and found a high specificity but low sensitivity ( i . e . , a positive histoplasma urine antigen is almost unequivocal , but a negative result does not rule out the PDH ) . However , we believe the test is useful since the positive likelihood rates show that a patient with PDH is 27 times more likely to have an IMMY-HUAg positive result; this may allow early targeted treatment .
Diarrhea is one of the leading infectious causes of death worldwide with an estimated 1 . 8 million deaths annually , primarily in young children in developing countries . There are many known causes of diarrhea; however , the causes of ∼40% of the cases are still unknown . One possibility is that viruses that we currently do not know about are responsible for these cases . Thus , we used an experimental strategy termed “micro-mass sequencing” to systematically identify viruses present in stool from a number of patients suffering from diarrhea . Sequences from a number of novel viruses were detected , some which differed quite significantly from any previously described virus . These new viruses may or may not be responsible for causing diarrhea . Future studies will specifically address the potential of these viruses to cause human disease . One implication of this study is that there are likely to be many more unknown viruses that can be identified in this fashion . Furthermore , by studying these viruses , we will come to a more complete understanding of the role viruses play in diarrhea . Ultimately , this may lead to the development of therapeutics and/or vaccines that decrease the disease burden of diarrhea .
During the years 2013–2016 , worldwide Zika epidemics spread quickly throughout immune-naïve human populations . In 2015–2016 , the Dominican Republic was struck by an epidemic of dengue followed by an outbreak of Zika . The Zika epidemic closely followed the tail of the dengue epidemic and provided an opportunity to study the dynamics of Zika and dengue transmission at the population level over a similar timeframe . The findings showed that while dengue cases were marginally higher among males , Zika cases were much higher among females and in particular among sexually active age groups . This might indicate that 1 ) prior dengue infections ( and hence antibody cross-reactivity ) in these populations had no material impact on the likelihood of reporting Zika illness 2 ) over-reporting in females was due to health campaigning that targeted females or 3 ) there was a biological cause for increased susceptibility among women . These possible causes are not mutually exclusive but it is most likely that the clustering of cases among women was the result of health-seeking behaviour caused by health campaigns and media coverage of Zika at the time . If so , media campaigns can be an effective strategy for encouraging health-seeking behaviour among target demographics .
All living organisms face constant challenges from environmental factors . Appropriate and rapid responses to external stimuli are crucial for maintenance of genome integrity and cell survival . Poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation is a post-translational modification and contributes to multiple molecular and cellular processes including a prominent role in DNA damage repair . Human PARP1 , the founding and most characterized member of the PARP family , accounts for more than 90% of overall molecular and cellular PARP activity in response to DNA damage while PARP2 supplies a minor portion of this PARP activity . Here we show that Arabidopsis PARP2 rather than PARP1 plays the predominant role in poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation and organismal resilience in response to either chemically-induced DNA damage or pathogen infections . We show that the activity and abundance of PARP2 is regulated by both PARP1 and PARG1 . We also show that Arabidopsis PARG1 rather than PARG2 is the major contributor to removal poly ( ADP-ribose ) from acceptor proteins . Core aspects of plant poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation are mediated by substantially different enzymes than in animals , suggesting the likelihood of substantial differences in regulation .
We explored the molecular mechanisms that govern synapse formation in vivo using the nematode C . elegans . Our results have identified a conserved MIG-15/JNK-1 MAPK pathway that restricts formation of glutamatergic , neuron-neuron synapses in the mechanosensory neurons , but does not restrict synapse formation in motor neurons . This could have important implications because synapses made by the mechanosensory neurons are reminiscent of synapses in the mammalian central nervous system , and relatively little is known about the signals that specifically influence central synapse formation in vivo . Interestingly , our results are consistent with the MIG-15/JNK-1 pathway opposing RPM-1 , a signaling hub and ubiquitin ligase that inhibits different JNK and p38 signaling pathways . This suggests RPM-1 might inhibit specific MAPK pathways , such as the DLK-1 pathway , rather than simply acting as a general inhibitor of JNK and p38 signaling in neurons . Our results are particularly interesting given emerging links between JNK MAPK signaling and neurodegenerative diseases , such as Alzheimer’s disease .
In roundworms , the transcription factor TRA-1 controls sexual development . We show that TRR-1 is part of a complex of proteins that adds acetyl groups to its targets , and that this complex works with TRA-1 to initiate spermatogenesis . By contrast , a truncated form of TRA-1 blocks spermatogenesis . Because two different forms of this transcription factor oppose each other , TRA-1 is bipotential . To see if the interdependent relationship between these two forms has affected evolutionary change , we compared related species of roundworms . In one species , mutations that affect TRR-1 cause all germ cells to become oocytes , but mutations that affect three FEM proteins , which also regulate TRA-1 , do not . In the other species , the roles of these regulatory genes are reversed . Thus , the relative importance of the two halves of this bipotential switch has changed during recent evolution .
A key feature of the human brain is its ability to represent a vast amount of information , and to integrate this information in order to produce specific and selective behaviour , as well as a stream of unified conscious scenes . Attempts have been made to quantify so-called ‘integrated information’ by formalizing in mathematics the extent to which a system as a whole generates more information than the sum of its parts . However , so far , the resulting measures have turned out to be inapplicable to real neural systems . In this paper we introduce two new measures that can be applied to both realistic neural models and to time-series data garnered from a broad range of neuroimaging and electrophysiological methods . Our work provides new opportunities for examining the role of integrated information in cognition and consciousness , and indeed in the function of any complex biological system . However , our results also pose challenges for theories that ascribe a direct physical meaning to any version of integrated information so far described .
The tsetse transmitted parasites , Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense and Trypanosoma brucei gambiense , cause the fatal disease human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) ; the clinical progression , as well as the preferred diagnostic and treatment methods differ between the two types . Currently , the two do not overlap , although recent spread of Rhodesian HAT in Uganda has raised concerns over a potential future overlap . A recent study using geo-referenced HAT case records suggested that the most recent spread of Rhodesian HAT may have been due to movements of infected , untreated livestock ( the main reservoir of the parasite ) . Here , the initial analysis has been extended by explicitly accounting for spatial locations and their proximity to one another , providing improved accuracy . The results provide strengthened evidence of the significance of livestock movements for the continued spread of Rhodesian HAT within Uganda , despite the introduction of cattle treatment regulations which were implemented in an effort to curb the disease's spread . The application of predictive mapping indicates an increased risk of HAT in areas surrounding livestock markets , demonstrating the importance of livestock trading for continuing disease spread . This robust evidence can be used for the targeting of disease control efforts within Uganda to prevent further spread of Rhodesian HAT .
Finding conditions leading to stable equilibria , i . e . equilibria robust to small perturbations , is a key feature in understanding how persistent are ecological systems . The number of species involved in the ecosystem as well as the number of relations between them has historically been pointed out to be the prominent ingredients determining stability . The latter is however always computed for a particular equilibrium , which needs and is usually assumed to contain only positive abundances . This assumption has until now only barely been tested in relation to system size . We provide here analytical results complemented by numerical simulations which show that it is almost impossible to find equilibria containing only positive abundances in species rich systems or , if so , the parameters are constrained to lead to ecologically-nonsensical abundances in unstructured systems . Interestingly , only ecologically-inspired architectures permit one to obtain feasible equilibria with a rich and sensible dynamical behavior .
The bacteria Coxiella burnetii has a widespread distribution and causes illness in both humans and livestock ( Q Fever ) , including long-term effects in a proportion of cases . Despite a recent resurgence in interest in a European context , there is a significant lack of understanding of the prevalence of exposure , burden of disease , or epidemiological risk factors in low-income settings . Our study provides much needed new evidence , reporting seroprevalence in a linked human and cattle population in western Kenya and identifying factors associated with increased seroprevalence in humans and cattle within this setting . Our results indicate that environmental factors may play a role in patterns of exposure in cattle populations in western Kenya , where cattle in areas with less rainfall were more likely to have evidence of previous exposure to the bacteria . However , human exposure is more likely to be influenced by livestock contact patterns . In addition , cattle brought onto a homestead following purchase at a market or another homestead had higher seroprevalence than those bred on the homestead . Further research on the role of livestock markets in disease spread is required and may form the basis for the future development of Q Fever control measures .
Schistosomes , the blood flukes , are responsible for the major neglected tropical diseases termed schistosomiasis , which afflicts >200 million people in impoverished regions of the developing world . The genome sequence of these parasites has been decoded recently . The DEAD-box family is the largest of RNA helicase families . These enzymes play roles in RNA metabolic processes—transcription , pre-mRNA splicing , ribosome biogenesis , transport , initiation of translation , organelle gene expression , and RNA decay . Database searches indicated that S . mansoni has at least 33 DEAD-box helicases . A DEAD-box helicase known as Vasa is a determinant in germ line segregation and maintenance . Three schistosome DEAD-box RNA helicases exhibited Vasa-like sequences , and phylogenetic analysis confirmed they were members of the Vasa/PL10 DEAD-box subfamily . Quantitative real time PCR revealed that all three , termed Smvlg1 , Smvlg2 , and Smvlg3 , were expressed in developmental stages of S . mansoni , with elevated expression in adult females , eggs , miracidia and sporocysts . Moreover , whole mount in situ hybridization analysis confirmed that these vasa-like genes were expressed in the schistosome ovary . These findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying development of germ cell lines and gonads in schistosomes and have implications for understanding the role of RNA helicases , germ and stem cell biology .
VGLL4 , a new member of the Hippo pathway , is intensively investigated in inhibition of tumor progression via competing with YAP to bind TEADs , but its role in cardiovascular field remains unclear . Here we generated VGLL4 knockout mouse line and VGLL4-eGFP reporter mouse line . VGLL4-eGFP reporter mouse line showed VGLL4 was mainly expressed in valve interstitial cells from post-EMT stage to adult stage . Genetic loss of function and lineage tracing data demonstrated only endothelial loss of VGLL4 led to valve malformation with up-regulation of YAP targets . Of note , semi-knockout YAP could rescue this phenotype of VGLL4 knockouts . This is the first study to show the Hippo pathway plays a critical role in valve remodeling , maturation and homeostasis . Our findings suggest that mutations in VGLL4 may underlie human congenital heart valve dysplasia .
A long-standing debate in evolutionary biology revolves around the role of selective vs . stochastic processes in driving molecular evolution and shaping genetic variation . With the advent of genomics , genome-wide polymorphism data have been utilized to characterize these processes , with a major interest in describing the fraction of genomic variation shaped by positive selection . These genomic scans were initially focused around a hard sweep model , in which selection acts upon rare , newly arising beneficial mutations . Recent years have seen the description of sweeps occurring from both standing and rapidly recurring beneficial mutations , collectively known as soft sweeps . However , common to both hard and soft sweeps is the difficulty in distinguishing these effects from neutral demographic patterns , and disentangling these processes has remained an important field of study within population genetics . Despite this , there is a recent and troubling tendency to neglect these demographic considerations , and to naively fit sweep models to genomic data . Recent realizations of such efforts have resulted in the claim that soft sweeps play a dominant role in shaping genomic variation and in driving adaptation across diverse branches of the tree of life . Here , we reanalyze these findings and demonstrate that a more careful consideration of neutral processes results in highly differing conclusions .
Female mosquitoes are responsible for spreading many deadly infectious diseases including malaria , dengue fever , and yellow fever . These mosquitoes require a blood meal to produce eggs and preferentially feed on humans , thereby spreading disease as they feed . Females of the dengue vector mosquito Aedes aegypti undergo a natural change in behavior after a blood meal in which they lose attraction to humans for over three days . We are interested in understanding this natural behavioral inhibition because it may provide an opportunity to control mosquito blood-feeding behavior . Previous work showed that a small protein called Head Peptide-I could mimic this behavioral inhibition when injected into non-blood-fed females , which normally show very high attraction to humans . In this work , we set out to find the Head Peptide-I receptor and ask if it causes this behavioral inhibition . By testing eight different candidate receptors , we found one called NPYLR1 that responds to Head-Peptide I but is much more sensitive to another peptide called sNPF-3 . We made mutant mosquitoes that lack the npylr1 gene and found that the mutants showed normal sugar- and blood-feeding behavior . We conclude that there must be additional receptors and/or peptides that together cause this long-lasting inhibition of female mosquito attraction to humans .
Urogenital schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease whose transmission depends on environmental factors . The disease is one of the risk factors of bladder cancer , the second most common urogenital cancer after prostate cancer in Nigeria . This study aims to identify area suitable for the transmission of the disease through the use of environmental factors . This was achieved by using spatial analysis and multicriteria evaluation for Akure North Local Government Area ( LGA ) of Ondo State , Nigeria . The results showed that a large portion of the study area was highly favourable for the transmission of the disease . Of the five communities in the study area , only one had a low risk of transmission of the disease while the risk of transmission increased in the remaining four communities . The predictions made by the model was comparable to observations from field study . This study confirmed that analysis of environmental factors using relevant techniques can be applied in the study of transmission of parasitic diseases .
Bacterial meningitis is one of the most devastating brain diseases . Among the bacteria that cause meningitis , Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common . Meningitis predominantly affects children , especially in the Third World , and most of them do not survive . Those that do survive often suffer permanent brain damage and hearing problems . The exact morphological substrates of brain damage in Streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis remain largely unknown . In our experiments , we found that the brain cortex of patients with meningitis demonstrated a loss of synapses ( the contact points among neurons , responsible for the processes of learning and memory ) , and we identified the major pneumococcal neurotoxin pneumolysin as a sufficient cause of this loss . The effect was not direct but was mediated by the brain neurotransmitter glutamate , which was released upon toxin binding by one of the non-neuronal cell types of the brain – the astrocytes . Pneumolysin initiated calcium influx in astrocytes and subsequent glutamate release . Glutamate damaged the synapses via NMDA-receptors – a mechanism similar to the damage occurring in brain ischemia . Thus , we show that synaptic loss is present in pneumococcal meningitis , and we identify the toxic bacterial protein pneumolysin as the major factor in this process . These findings alter our understanding of bacterial meningitis and establish new therapeutic strategies for this fatal disease .
Human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) , which comprise more than 100 genotypes , are the most prevalent sexually transmitted infection and are associated with multiple human cancers including all cervical cancers , many other anogenital cancers , and 25% of head and neck cancers . The HPV life cycle is closely linked to epithelial differentiation of skin keratinocytes , with initial infection occurring only in the undifferentiated proliferating basal compartment of the epithelium and progeny virus production only in the terminally differentiated suprabasal compartment . So far , little is known about how host cells restrict the HPV life cycle to specific stages of skin cell development . Here , by identifying small molecule inhibitors of HPV infection , we discovered that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for the establishment of HPV infection . In addition , our further chemical genetic dissection of this process showed that early steps of mitosis are required for HPV infection and early gene expression . Our findings provide one reason why HPV only infects undifferentiated proliferating cells and provide new leads for the development of preventive and therapeutic strategies against HPV infection .
Penicillium marneffei is the most important thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungus in Southeast Asia . Despite findings on diverse genes and mechanisms involved in dimorphic switching , the key to signally pathways governing the switch is still unknown . Since miRNAs are important regulatory molecules in eukaryotes , we attempt to define if miRNAs are expressed in different growth phases of P . marneffei . Using high-throughput sequencing , we identified 24 potential milRNA candidates in P . marneffei , which were more abundantly expressed in mycelial than yeast phase . Two genes , dcl-1 and dcl-2 , encoding Dicer-like proteins and the gene , qde-2 , encoding Argonaute-like protein , were also identified . Phylogenetic analysis showed that dcl-2 of P . marneffei was more closely related to the homologues in other thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungi than to Penicillium chrysogenum and Aspergillus spp . . dcl-2 demonstrated higher mRNA levels in mycelial than yeast phase . Northern blot analysis confirmed expression of two milRNAs , PM-milR-M1 and PM-milR-M2 , only in mycelial phase , whose expression was dependent on dcl-2 but not dcl-1 or qde-2 . The mRNA levels of three predicted targets of PM-milR-M1 were upregulated in knockdown strain PM-milR-M1KD , supporting its regulatory function . This study represents the first discovery of milRNAs in thermal dimorphic fungi , with differential expression in different growth phases .
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) was isolated for the first time in Uganda in 1947 . The virus was sporadically detected in Africa and Asia during few decades . The first human outbreak was declared in Yap Island in Micronesia in 2007 . The virus reemerged in 2013 in French Polynesia and circulated throughout the Pacific region and in Americas between 2013 and 2017 . ZIKV is transmitted to human by the bite of an infected mosquito . Aedes mosquitoes were particularly incriminated in the ZIKV outbreak . In this study , we showed for the first time the results of vector competence study of wild Aedes aegypti and Aedes polynesiensis from different islands of the Pacific region . Our results demonstrated an unexpected homogenous and low ZIKV vector competence for the different populations of these two vectors . These findings seemed to indicate that other factors have contributed to the rapid spread of ZIKV in the Pacific region .
To do their jobs , many RNAs need to fold into structures ( through base-paring ) . We were interested in the conformation of a specific mammalian RNA , Xist , when it is inside a cell . Xist is a very large non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) , that is >17 , 000 nt long . Xist is particularly important because it is one of the first lncRNAs to be discovered , and turns genes off across an entire chromosome . To figure out how Xist RNA is folded in mouse cells , we developed a new approach , Targeted Structure-Seq , to examine the conformation of large RNAs like Xist . Using computer modeling , we identified parts of Xist that are base paired into RNA duplexes . We also determined which parts of the Xist RNA are likely to be structured . This work provides a new tool for studying the secondary structure of any large RNA , and helps us understand what the important pieces of Xist look like while Xist does its work in the cell .
Recently many genetic variants have been established for diseases , and the findings have raised hope for risk prediction based on genomic profiles . However , we need to have proper statistical measures to assess the usefulness of such tests . In this study , we developed a statistical framework which enables us to evaluate many predictive indices analytically . It is based on the liability threshold model , which postulates a latent liability that is normally distributed . Affected individuals are assumed to have a liability exceeding a certain threshold . We demonstrated that , given the overall disease probability and variance in liability explained by the genetic markers , we can compute a variety of predictive indices . An example is the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , or AUC , which is very commonly employed . However , the limitations of AUC are often ignored , and we proposed complementing it with other indices . We have therefore also computed other metrics like the average difference in risks between cases and non-cases , the ability of reclassification into high- and low-risk categories , and the proportion of cases accounted for by a certain percentile of population at the highest risk . We also derived how to construct graphs showing the risk distribution in population .
Sleeping sickness , or human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) , is a neglected tropical disease that represents a risk to more than seventy million people in Sub-Saharan Africa . Most cases are caused by infection with Trypanosoma brucei gambiense . Diagnosis of HAT relies on the identification of suspected cases by serological methods , which include recently developed rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) . Current RDTs are produced using native antigens that are purified from live parasites in a laborious and dangerous process . The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance of a new RDT made using recombinant antigens , by screening people in fifteen endemic sites in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The new RDT was found to be more sensitive than , and as specific as , the reference RDT made using native antigens . It was also more sensitive than CATT , a serological test that has been widely used for decades . While one third of HAT cases were correctly diagnosed by all tests , the other cases were only identified by one or two of the tests . In order to enhance case detection and accelerate elimination of HAT , there may be a need to explore diagnostic strategies that combine two or more screening tests .
Despite the success of the Chagas disease vector control program in Guatemala , there are still regions with persistent T . dimidiata infestation . The municipality of Comapa , Jutiapa , is one of such areas . After several rounds of residual insecticide sprayings , infestation of some communities remained >15% . We evaluated the impact of a decade of vector control activities through three cross-sectional seroprevalence and entomological surveys ( 1999 through 2015 ) . We found that transmission to children has decreased ten-fold . However , new infections persist in women and children . To reach the Chagas disease elimination goal , integrated vector control strategies should include community-wide insecticide applications , education to change exposure to risk factors and increased access to diagnostics and treatment for women and children .
The pathogenic bacterium Citrobacter rodentium naturally infects mice using a mechanism similar to those employed by certain strains of E . coli that cause severe gastro-intestinal infections in humans . As such it is an important model organism for human disease research . We previously sequenced the genome of C . rodentium strain ICC168 and found that it had many features in common with other bacterial pathogens that have recently adapted to live in a new environment and colonise new hosts . In this study , we sequenced the genome of an additional strain of C . rodentium that was independently isolated on a different continent , and found that the two strains were remarkably similar . In addition , we investigated several C . rodentium isolates and showed that the genome is unstable , existing in multiple conformations within a single population due to genomic inversions , recombination between repetitive sequences , and horizontally acquired DNA that is mobile within the genome . We conclude that C . rodentium recently evolved to become a pathogen of mice , possibly concurrently with the development of mouse models for human diseases , and that it is still adapting to its new environment .
Proteins , the molecular machines encoded by our genes , serve essential roles in every living cell . Investigators were therefore surprised to find widely variable levels of a particular protein within populations of genetically identical cells . This variation in protein level , called stochasticity , arises from the chemical nature of the processes that underlie protein production . The “central dogma” of biology dictates that the DNA encoding a particular gene transmits information via RNA to molecular factories called ribosomes in order to create proteins . Each step in transcription and translation introduces some variation , or stochasticity , into the production of the protein . In the current work , we tackled how one might learn more about the machinery responsible for creating proteins by the character of the stochasticity in the central dogma process . We find that many different mechanisms can explain any given stochastic protein signature . Even though there were many explanations for any particular pattern of stochasticity , the set of explanations still inform on how a given gene creates its protein . Our mathematical and computational framework will permit others to better understand how the machinery that expresses genes works . This , in turn , will enable investigators to better predict how a given mutation is likely to affect gene expression .
Human Monkeypox is a zoonotic neglected tropical disease , and the majority of human infections occur in the poor rural areas of central Africa . Human Monkeypox was discovered when the Smallpox vaccination campaign stopped , exposing the immunologically unprotected population to the risk of Monkeypoxvirus infection . Currently , no safe and efficacious vaccines for prevention of Monkeypox are available for an epidemic setting , and further studies are needed for the development of a safe and efficacious vaccine . In this study , safety and protection of three recombinant Bovine Herpesvirus 4-based vectors , each delivering a Monkeypox glycoprotein , was evaluated in a suitable mouse model . All three recombinants appeared safe , and one of them , delivering a single dose of Monkeypox M1R glycoprotein , protected 60% of mice against a lethal dose of Monkeypoxvirus; when given as a prime/boost , it afforded 100% protection . Although further investigation into other Monkeypox models , including non-human primate , is needed to assess bovine herpesvirus 4-based vector delivering M1R safety and protection , the findings of this work pave the way for the potential use of Bovine Herpesvirus 4-based vectors for other category A agents .
Eukaryotic mRNAs are stabilised by a 5’ cap and one important step in mRNA decay is the removal of this cap by the nudix domain protein Dcp2 of the decapping complex . The decapping complex is highly conserved throughout eukaryotes , with the exception of trypanosomes that lack the entire complex . Here , I show that trypanosomes have evolved to use an ApaH-like phosphatase instead of a nudix domain protein as their major decapping enzyme . This work closes an important gap in the knowledge of trypanosome mRNA metabolism . Moreover , this is the first reported function of an ApaH-like phosphatase , a bacterial derived class of enzymes that are widespread throughout eukaryotes .
Type 1 diabetes is a condition that results from the loss of insulin-producing β-cells . Despite current therapies , diabetic patients are prone to vascular complications . Using the mouse as a model , we previously found that pancreatic glucagon-expressing cells can be regenerated and converted into β-like cells by the forced expression of a single gene , Pax4 . Here , we generated transgenic mice allowing both the permanent labeling of α-cells and the inactivation of Arx solely in this cell subtype . Our results indicate that , upon Arx inactivation , α-cells can be continuously regenerated from duct-lining precursors and converted into β-like cells . Importantly , the additional loss of Pax4 does not impact these processes , suggesting that Arx is the main trigger of α-cell-mediated β-like cell neogenesis . Most interestingly , upon chemical induction of diabetes/β-cell loss , while control animals die or remain severely hyperglycemic , a normalization of the glycemia , a clear regeneration of the β-like cell mass , and an extended lifespan are noted in animals with the conditional inactivation of Arx . Our data therefore suggest that strategies aiming at inhibiting the expression of Arx , or its molecular targets/co-factors , may pave new avenues for the treatment of diabetes .
Eukaryotic organisms have hundreds to thousands of DNA replication origins distributed throughout their genomes . Faithful duplication of these genomes requires a multitude of global controls that ensure that every replication origin initiates at most once per cell cycle . Disruptions in these controls can result in re-initiation of origins and localized re-replication of the surrounding genome . Such re-replicated genomic segments are converted to stable chromosomal alterations with extraordinarily efficiency and could provide a potential source of genomic alterations associated with cancer cells . This publication establishes the existence of a local layer of replication control by identifying new genetic elements , termed re-initiation promoters ( RIPs ) that can locally override some of the global mechanisms preventing re-initiation . Origins adjacent to RIP elements are not as tightly controlled and thus more susceptible to re-initiation , especially when these global controls are compromised . We speculate that RIP elements contribute to genomic variability in origin control and make some regions of the genome more susceptible to re-replication induced genomic instability .
Amebiasis is usually transmitted by ingestion of contaminated food or water in developing countries . Recently , however , increased risk for amebiasis among men who have sex with men ( MSM ) due to oral-anal sexual contact was reported in developed countries , resulting in growing concern on amebiasis in HIV-1-infected MSM . The recommended treatment of amebiasis is metronidazole or tinidazole , followed by a luminal agent to eliminate intestinal cyst colonization . However , the efficacy of luminal treatment in preventing recurrence has not been assessed yet . In this study , we analyzed the medical records of 170 patients with amebiasis and HIV-1 co-infection . Treatment with metronidazole or tinidazole was excellent whereas luminal treatment did not reduce the frequency of recurrence of amebiasis . Recurrence was more frequent in those MSM with signs of sexual activity such as syphilis infection . Luminal treatment following metronidazole or tinidazole treatment does not reduce recurrence of amebiasis in high risk populations .
A global programme aims to eliminate Gambian sleeping sickness ( Human African Trypanosomiasis , HAT ) as a public health problem by 2020 . Gambian HAT is a neglected tropical disease caused by trypanosomes spread by tsetse flies and its control has relied largely on detection and treatment of human cases . In the Mandoul focus of southern Chad , regular screening of the human population ( ~39000 people ) between 2002 and 2013 resulted in the detection and treatment of ~100 cases/year . We examined whether even better control might be achieved through the addition of vector control to medical screening . In February 2014 , 2600 insecticide-treated targets ( ‘Tiny Targets’ ) were deployed in areas where tsetse were present; tsetse are attracted to the targets and on contacting it they pick up a lethal dose of insecticide . Monitoring of the tsetse population , using a network of 44 traps operated regularly between November 2013 and October 2016 , showed that the mean daily catch of tsetse declined by 99 . 99% , from 0 . 7 tsetse/trap before targets were deployed to 0 . 005 tsetse/trap . The number of HAT cases detected by a programme of active screening also declined during this period . Mathematical modelling of the number of HAT cases reported during the period 2000–2015 suggests that 70% of the decline in cases during 2014–2015 was due to vector control . The model also suggests that the combination of these interventions may have interrupted transmission and may to lead to the elimination of sleeping sickness in the Mandoul focus by 2020 . The results from Mandoul provide further empirical and theoretical evidence that the global elimination of Gambian HAT can be achieved through the integrated use of ( i ) case detection and treatment and ( ii ) vector control .
Strongyloidiasis , the parasitic disease caused by the nematode Strongyloides stercoralis , is being increasingly diagnosed in immigrant population in Spain . In the present study we describe de clinical , epidemiological and microbiological profile of 1245 cases of imported strongyloidiasis registered in the +REDIVI Spanish Collaborative Network . Patients were mostly immigrants , and the majority of them were coming from South America . Serological tests allowed the diagnosis in most of the cases , and detection of larvae in stool samples was associated with male gender and presence of eosinophilia . Ivermectin was associated with higher probability of cure compared with albendazole . Given the risk of developing a severe presentation , screening of S . stercoralis infection should be mandatory in patients coming from or had traveling to endemic areas , especially in those with immunosuppressant conditions .
An important component of vaccines is the amount of pathogen inoculum , dead or alive , that is included in the vaccine . This inoculum dose , sometimes also referred to as antigen dose , needs to be large enough to induce good protective immunity . However , one usually also wants to keep the dose low to reduce costs , maximize the number of vaccine doses available , and minimize potential vaccine side effects . The inoculum dose is currently chosen based on limited data from clinical trials . In this study , we set up a framework that combines data with mathematical models to illustrate how such a combination could lead to better and more efficient determination of an optimal inoculum dose for vaccines .
Under prolonged nitrogen deprivation , one-dimensional filaments of the multicellular cyanobacterium Anabaena undergo a process of development , forming a pattern consisting of cells specialized for nitrogen fixation-heterocysts- , separated by a chain of about ten photosynthetic vegetative cells . The developmental program uses activation , inhibition , and transport to create spatial and temporal patterns of gene expression , in the presence of unavoidable stochastic fluctuations in gene expression among cells . Using a chromosomally-encoded fluorescent marker , we followed the expression of the important regulator HetR in individual cells along filaments , both under abundant nitrogen conditions as well as at different times after nitrogen deprivation . The results of our statistical analysis of these fluctuations illuminate the fundamental role that positive feedback , lateral inhibition and cell-cell communication play in the developmental program , not only after exposure to the external cue that triggers differentiation but also under non-inducing conditions . Furthermore our results establish the spatial extent to which gene expression is correlated along filaments .
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) causes encephalitis in humans and reproductive disorder in pigs . The enzootic transmission cycle of JEV is maintained in nature by several species of mosquitoes and vertebrates including birds and pigs . In recent years , JEV genotype I ( GI ) replaced genotype IIII ( GIII ) as the dominant genotype in Asian countries . Genotype shift has an impact on disease control , and understanding the reasons for this shift will offer valuable insight into avenues for future disease control . Therefore , we compared the replication efficiencies of GI and GIII viruses in vitro and in vivo . We observed that GI viruses show higher replication titers in avian cells and higher viremia levels in young domestic ducklings than GIII viruses , suggesting an enhanced replication efficiency of GI viruses in birds . Based on these findings , we speculated that the enhanced replication of GI viruses in birds could provide increased mosquito infection , leading to an increase in the birds-mosquitoes-birds transmission cycle , thereby contributing to JEV genotype shift .
Biofilm formation is part and parcel of the ability of Candida albicans , a normal component of the human gastrointestinal microbial community , to cause disease . Recent work by many investigators has provided detailed information regarding how C . albicans converts to the biofilm stage of growth . The vast majority of these studies have involved the study of strains lacking a single gene that affects biofilm formation . Using this genetic approach in combination with other genome-wide techniques , a network of transcription factors was identified that play a crucial role in regulating biofilm-related processes . Here , we have systematically generated and characterized strains with mutations in two biofilm network transcription factors in order to determine how these genes interact . This represents the first systematic quantitative genetic interaction study in C . albicans and , by combining our results with that of previous labs , provides a new level of detail regarding the integrated functions of these transcription factors . In addition , our data indicate that the biofilm transcription factor network is very sensitive to genetic perturbation and propose that this fragility is a function of its small-world topography which , in turn , promotes network efficiency at the expense of robustness .
It was recently described that asparagine synthetase A ( AS-A ) of trypanosomatids uses not only ammonia but also glutamine for asparagine formation , which was a surprising feature for a type A AS . Interestingly , Leishmania donovani AS-A was reported to be essential for parasite survival , and once a human homologue was absent , this enzyme emerged as a novel drug target candidate . Leishmania infantum encodes for a functional AS-A enzyme , which also uses either ammonia or glutamine as nitrogen donor for asparagine synthesis . In L . infantum , ASA ablation drives parasites auxotrophic to asparagine , however , LiAS-A is not detrimental for parasite survival , growth or infectivity . AS-A is therefore unlikely to be a suitable drug target against Leishmania parasites .
Human toxocariasis is a parasitic zoonosis caused by the larval stages of Toxocara canis ( T . canis ) , the common roundworm of dogs , and by the roundworm of cats , Toxocara cati ( T . cati ) . Toxocariasis is one of the most prevalent helminthiasis worldwide . Humans become infected by the ingestion of contaminated food or soil or by direct contact with dogs and cats . Epilepsy is the most common chronic neurological disorder worldwide with a global estimate of about 70 million cases of lifetime epilepsy . Early studies suggested high rate of toxocara exposure ( toxocara seropositivity ) among people with epilepsy . Despite several studies support the possible role of toxocariasis in the incidence of epilepsy , this association is still debated . We updated our previous research to gain further insight on the association . This study provides new evidence of a positive association between the two diseases . On this basis , health strategies to reduce the impact of Toxocara spp are strongly advised . Further studies are necessary to clarify the role of certain parasites in epilepsy .
ATM ( Ataxia-Telangiectasia Mutated ) serine/threonine kinase plays a critical role in coordinating the cellular response to DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) , such as cell cycle checkpoint , DNA repair , and apoptosis . miRNAs have been reported to be involved in many cellular processes , and their role in DSB–triggered DNA damage response ( DDR ) is just being elucidated . Here we describe a novel DSB response mechanism whereby ATM–dependent miR-335 downregulates CtIP . CtIP is a multifunctional protein that is crucial for DNA homologous recombination repair; and we show , for the first time , that this protein is subject to miRNA downregulation . CtIP downregulation was verified in cell lines from radiosensitive patients , and we demonstrate that this pathway contributes to radiosensitization and DNA repair defects in BRCA1 foci formation and cell cycle checkpoint . Given that miR-335 is also a tumor metastasis suppressor , our finding suggests that miR-335 overexpression could not only increase tumor sensitivity to radiation or chemical therapy but also inhibit tumor metastasis or re-initiation of tumor growth .
A defining feature of human social cognition is our insight that others' behaviour is driven by their beliefs and preferences , rather than by what is objectively true or good for them . In fact , a great deal of our social interactions are concerned with guessing others' mental states . But is such "mentalizing" of any help for predicting others' behaviour ? After all , most animal species seem to cope with this problem without appealing to any form of sophisticated "Theory of Mind" . Here , sophistication refers to the depth of recursive beliefs , as in "I think that you think that I think…" Although we are likely to engage in such recursive beliefs whenever our interests are tied up with others' ( e . g . in the aim of deceiving them ) , it is unclear how these beliefs are updated and whether this gives us any advantage when we learn . These are the questions we address in this work , by combining computational and experimental approaches .
Gaussian graphical model ( GGM ) , a probability model for characterizing conditional dependence among a set of random variables , has been widely used in studying biological networks . It is important and practical to make inference with rigorous statistical properties and high efficiency under a high-dimensional setting , which is common in biological systems that usually contain tens of thousands of molecular elements , such as genes and proteins . This work proposes a novel efficient algorithm , FastGGM , to implement asymptotically normal estimation of large GGM established by Ren et al [1] . It quickly estimates the precision matrix , partial correlations , as well as p-values and confidence intervals for the graph . Simulation studies demonstrate our algorithm outperforms the current algorithm for Ren et al . and algorithms for some other estimation methods , and real data analyses further prove its efficiency in studying biological networks . In conclusion , FastGGM is a statistically sound and computationally fast algorithm for constructing GGM with high-dimensional data . An R package for implementation can be downloaded from http://www . pitt . edu/~wec47/FastGGM . html .
The striatum forms the main input to the Basal Ganglia ( BG ) , a subcortical structure involved in reinforcement learning and action selection . It is composed of medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) which inhibit each other through a network of collaterals , receive excitatory projections from the cerebral cortex , and are the only cells which project outside the striatum . Because of its inhibitory structure , the MSN network is often thought to act selectively , transmitting the most active cortical inputs downstream in the BG while suppressing others . However , studies show that local MSN network connections are too sparse and weak to perform global selection and their function remains puzzling . Here we investigate a different hypothesis . Rather than generating a static stimulus dependent activity pattern , we suggest the MSN network is optimized to generate stimulus dependent dynamical activity patterns for long time periods after variations in cortical excitation . We demonstrate , using simulations , that the MSN network has special characteristics . It is neither too stable to respond in a dynamically complex temporally extended way to cortical variations , nor is it too unstable to respond in a consistent repeatable way . We discuss how these properties may be utilized in temporally delayed reinforcement learning tasks strongly recruiting the striatum .
Cells maintain a constant size by keeping a balance between the intracellular transport pathways that take membrane material to and from the cell surface . How that balance in membrane trafficking is attained , and by what mechanism ( s ) , is poorly understood . Here , we analyzed these potential mechanisms and found that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p , a protein that regulates transport to the cell surface ( polarized exocytosis ) , coordinates this function with the assembly of cortical actin patches , which initiate endocytosis and the compensatory recycling of membrane back into the cell . We tracked Sec4p on the plasma membrane and showed that it associates with actin patches at a specific time during their maturation . Mutations in SEC4 or its regulatory genes disrupted actin patches and inhibited endocytosis . In addition , we showed that Sec4p directly binds and regulates the activity of the yeast WASp homolog Las17p , which , together with the Arp2/3 complex , regulates actin polymerization and actin patch assembly . Based on these results , we propose that Sec4p overrides an inhibitory step during actin patch assembly to spur on endocytosis . Sec4p thereby balances the delivery of material to the cell surface with the induction of compensatory endocytic recycling to maintain a constant cell size .
Acetaminophen-induced liver injury in mice is a model for drug-induced liver injury in humans . Challenging an explanatory mechanism in mice is problematic because variables determining causes and effects cannot be controlled adequately . We circumvent that impediment by performing virtual experiments that challenge the prevailing scientific explanation for the characteristic spatiotemporal pattern of early acetaminophen-induced hepatic necrosis . Virtual mice utilize a biomimetic software liver . Results of virtual experiments provide compelling evidence that the prevailing explanation is insufficient . Without further studies in mice , we discovered a new , marginally more complex explanatory mechanism that met stringent tests of sufficiency . We argue that this virtual causal mechanism and the actual mechanism in mice are strongly analogous within and across multiple biological levels . Variants of the virtual mechanism provide possible explanations for the considerable variation in 24-hour necrosis scores among 37 genetically diverse mouse strains following a single toxic acetaminophen dose .
Chagas or American Trypanosomiasis is a disease that affects around 8–10 million people in Latin America , and can be transmitted by congenital infection . In areas where the vector insect and blood transfusions are controlled , this mode of transmission is epidemiologically important , as 15 , 000 Trypanosoma cruzi-infected children are born each year . Parasitological methods are available to detect T . cruzi but our results suggest that more sensitive diagnostic methods should be developed , as not all newborns have high parasite burdens to be detected by microscopy . If congenital infected babies are promptly diagnosed after delivery they can be cured , as the trypanocidal treatment is very effective in children and with no significant side effects .
A bacterium like E . coli can be thought of as a self-replicating factory , where inventory synthesis , degradation , and management is concerted according to a well-defined set of rules encoded in the organism's genome . Since the organism's survival depends on this set of rules , these rules were most likely optimized by evolution . Therefore , by writing down these rules , what could one learn about Escherichia coli ? We examined E . coli growing in the simplest imaginable environment , one constant in space and time and rich in resources , and attempted to identify the rules that relate the genome to the cell composition and self-replication time . With more than 4 , 400 genes , a full-scale model would be prohibitively complicated , and therefore we “coarse-grained” E . coli by lumping together genes and proteins of similar function . We used this model to examine measurements of strains with reduced copy number of ribosomal-RNA genes , and also to show that increasing this copy number overcrowds the cell with ribosomes and proteins . As a result , there appears to be an optimum copy number with respect to the wild-type genome , in agreement with observation . We hope that this model will improve and further challenge our understanding of bacterial physiology , also in more complicated environments .
The phytohormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) regulates multiple developmental processes in plants , including seed dormancy and germination , growth , and abiotic stress responses . The transcription factor ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5 ( HY5 ) , a core regulator of light signaling , is involved in ABA and abiotic stress responses by directly regulating the expression of ABA INSENSITIVE 5 ( ABI5 ) . In this study , we show that a MYB-related transcription factor , RADIALIS-LIKE SANT/MYB 1 ( RSM1 ) , plays important roles in ABA and salinity signaling in Arabidopsis , and we dissect the relationship between RSM1 and HY5 . RSM1 interacts with HY5/HYH in vitro and in vivo and they may function as a regulatory module in responses to ABA and abiotic stresses . RSM1 binds to the promoter of ABI5 , thereby regulating its expression; moreover , RSM1 interaction stimulates HY5 binding to the ABI5 promoter , but RSM1 was not found to enhance the activation of ABI5 expression by HY5 . Genetic analyses reveal that RSM1 mediates the functions of HY5 in responses of seed germination , post-germination developmental responses to ABA and abiotic stresses , and seedling tolerance to salinity . In summary , our work demonstrates that HY5/HYH and RSM1 may bind with the ABI5 promoter to regulate ABI5 expression independently or somehow dependently , thereby controlling the expression of ABI5-downstream target genes in ABA and salinity signaling .
Mitochondria—the power plants of eukaryotic cells—produce energy in the form of ATP . More than one-third of this energy production is driven by a gradient of protons across the mitochondrial membrane created by the pumping action of a very large enzyme called complex I . Defects in complex I are implicated in numerous pathological processes like neurodegeneration and biological aging . Recent X-ray structural analyses revealed that complex I is an L-shaped molecule with one arm integrated into the membrane and the other sticking into the aqueous interior of the mitochondrion; the chemical reactions of the enzyme take place in this hydrophilic arm , clearly separated from proton pumping that must occur somewhere in the membrane arm . To assign the pump function to structural domains , we created a stable subcomplex of complex I by deleting the gene encoding one of its small subunits in a yeast called Yarrowia lipolytica . This subcomplex lacked half of the membrane arm; it was still catalytically active but it pumped only half the number of protons as the full complex . This indicates that complex I has two functionally distinct pump modules operating in its membrane arm .
Infections with dengue viruses and malaria protozoans affect approximately a third of the world´s population and their epidemiologic patterns constitute a burden for the human health and the global economy . Even though infections with these parasites are often asymptomatic , it a spectrum of physiologic responses can be elicited from the human hosts , including fever . We explore here a hitherto unknown beneficial role of febrile temperatures , namely the increase in antibody affinity for relevant antigens from these pathogens at 40°C , compared to the physiologic body temperature . We also highlight the importance of temperature equilibration prior to protein-protein measurements in vitro . We anticipate that these results are useful for delineating the role of febrile temperatures in the immune response against infections .
In this paper , we develop and analyze a minimal model for a 2D network of cross-linked actin filaments and myosin motors , representing the cortical cytoskeleton of eukaryotic cells . We implement coarse-grained representations of force production by myosin motors and stress dissipation through an effective cross-link friction and filament turnover . We use this model to characterize how the sustained production of active stress , and the steady dissipation of elastic stress , depend individually on motor activity , effective cross-link friction and filament turnover . Then we combine these results to gain insights into how microscopic network parameters control steady state flow produced by asymmetric distributions of motor activity . Our results provide a framework for understanding how local modulation of microscopic interactions within contractile networks control macroscopic quantities like active stress and effective viscosity to control cortical deformation and flow at cellular scales .
In plants , sugars function as signaling molecules that control important processes such as photosynthesis , growth , carbon distribution over different organs and the production of storage compounds . Sugar signaling requires the phytohormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) and the ABA-induced regulatory transcription factor ABI4 . In this study , a genetic analysis identified the transcription factor ANAC060 as an important component in establishing sugar sensitivity . It was found that , in natural Arabidopsis thaliana populations , the ANAC060 protein may occur as a long or a short version due to differential ANAC060 mRNA splicing caused by a single-nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) . The long ANAC060 protein with an intact transmembrane domain ( TMD ) is excluded from the nucleus , whereas the short version lacking the TMD is always present in the nucleus , where it regulates gene expression . Functional analyses indicated that Col ANAC060 is involved in a novel negative feedback loop in the sugar-ABA signaling pathway . In this feedback loop model , ABI4 activates ANAC060 expression , but the nuclear presence of Col ANAC060 suppresses Glc-induced ABA accumulation and ABI4 expression , thereby reducing responsiveness to sugar signals .
One of the most complex c-di-GMP signaling systems is found in the human opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa . The intracellular concentration of c-di-GMP determines both bacterial physiology and pathogenesis . Here , we highlight the complexity of c-di-GMP-dependent signaling routes by giving the example of the HsbD diguanylate cyclase . This protein , which synthesizes c-di-GMP , evolved in P . aeruginosa to locally implement the HptB regulatory pathway for the control of swarming , twitching , swimming motilities and biofilm formation . Understanding how the pleiotropic molecule c-di-GMP targets a particular bacterial process is equivalent to understand how bacteria translate signal information into specific actions . This knowledge is ultimately relevant for novel medical treatments aiming to block these actions in order to prevent the successful establishment of a bacterial infection .
When interacting with the world , for instance , when pointing to targets , humans generally make use of previous experiences to determine the best course of action . For example , based on the context of wearing corrective glasses or taking them off , we instantly adjust our behaviour for the geometric distortions the glasses induce . How do we learn such context-dependent distortions and how does such learning generalise ? We translated this question into a target-pointing task in which different target shapes were each associated with a different distortion . That is , participants needed to aim right-of-target to “hit spiky shapes and left-of-target for round ones . In this way we exposed participants to a linear relationship between target shape and required motor response . After training , performance was measured for shape-morphs along the spiky-round axis that were not explicitly part of the training set ( generalisation ) . We found that participants did not use the trained linear relationship , but rather weighed the learned shape-contexts according to their similarity to the current test-shape . Furthermore , learning substantially slowed down with increased numbers of training shapes . We developed a Bayesian learning model capturing these results . The model demonstrates that participants learn the set of separate shape-response pairs rather than their relationship .
The inferior olive is a nucleus in the brain stem with neurons that exhibit continuous sub-threshold activity and are electrically coupled by gap junctions . It is implicated in execution and learning of motor skills and it is often assumed that it provides a teacher signal to the cerebellum . Models based on this theory generally require a continuously updated quantitative value to be sent to the cerebellum , yet the inferior olive fires spikes at a low rate of approximately 1 Hz , making reconciliation of model and biological system problematic . However , it has also been shown that olivary cells can generate an axonal burst of spikes for every somatically recorded action potential , theoretically rendering them capable of transmitting more information per event . Using a detailed neuronal model of an inferior olive cell , we examined what factors may underlie the axonal burst size . We found that leak currents between dendrite and soma and electrically coupled dendrites are major determinants . From our findings and current literature it follows that the inferior olive may be capable of adapting the speed at which motor tasks in the cerebellum are learned , depending on the synchrony of sub-threshold activity in clusters of electrically coupled cells .
Iron is an essential nutrient required for healthy life but , in excess , is the cause of debilitating and even fatal conditions . The most common genetic disorder in humans caused by a mutation , haemochromatosis , results in an iron overload in the liver . Indeed , the liver plays a central role in the regulation of iron . Recently , an increasing amount of detail has been discovered about molecules related to iron metabolism , but an understanding of how they work together and regulate iron levels ( in healthy people ) or fail to do it ( in disease ) is still missing . We present a mathematical model of the regulation of liver iron metabolism that provides explanations of its dynamics and allows further hypotheses to be formulated and later tested in experiments . Importantly , the model reproduces accurately the healthy liver iron homeostasis and simulates haemochromatosis , showing how the causative mutation leads to iron overload . We investigate how best to control iron regulation and identified reactions that can be targets of new medicines to treat iron overload . The model provides a virtual laboratory for investigating iron metabolism and improves understanding of the method by which the liver senses and controls iron levels .
Perforating and spanning the nuclear envelope ( NE ) , the nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) is a supramolecular assembly that regulates all traffic between the nucleus and cytoplasm . As the unique gateway to the nucleus , NPC selectively facilitates the transport of large cargo while offering a relatively unobstructed pathway for small molecules and ions . Despite the high throughput of about 1000 translocations per NPC per second , the NPC strictly controls the passage of individual cargos . However , the dynamic mechanism of nucleocytoplasmic transport is poorly understood . It is too difficult to experiment on the transport mechanism within the confined geometry of this tiny pore in vivo . Currently , only computational techniques can elucidate the detailed events happening at this tiny pore with a refined spatiotemporal resolution to account for transient bonds . Based on experimental data regarding the NPC structure and nucleocytoplasmic transport , we have established a coarse-grained model of the functional state of the NPC . The model mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport and allows us to directly observe the processes happening within the pore from a biophysical perspective . The first-passage time of a single cargo-complex is found to be about 2 . 6 ms . Furthermore , kap-FG hydrophobic bonds are highly dynamic and short-lived , ensuring efficient transport .
Exposing nonhuman primates to infectious pathogens ( such as tuberculosis , malaria , or the simian equivalent of HIV ) is an important model for testing vaccines or other interventions designed to prevent infection or disease . In fact , demonstrating efficacy in animals is often a requirement before clinical testing in humans can be started . A critical variable in such testing is the dose of the pathogen used: this dose should be similar to what humans would encounter . Using too-high a dose may overcome the intervention and mask a successful approach; using too-low a dose may not be relevant . Often , an optimal dose will lead to “successful” infections only a fraction of the times the animal is exposed . A successful intervention experiment therefore needs to use a precisely calibrated dose of the infectious agent; this calibration can only be done by exposing animals to a range of doses and measuring how often they become infected . Here I define the most parsimonious method for performing this calibration: one that uses the least number of animals and procedures . Given the large number of new pathogens being tested in animal models , adoption of such a parsimonious protocol is both economically and ethically warranted , and will thereby enable favorable review of proposed animal use numbers by Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees .
Sensory systems have the ability to adapt to changes in the environment . In a quiet room , the nervous system is very responsive , so that even a whisper can be easily understood . In contrast , the perceived loudness on a crowded street will be reduced to prevent an overload of the nervous system . Two different hypotheses have been proposed to explain how the nervous system achieves this adaptation . According to one idea , all present sensory signals are equally enhanced , so that the whole range of input signals is reliably represented . On the other hand , the aim of the nervous system may be to extract the most important parts of the acoustic signal , for example , an approaching car , and thus abolish the irrelevant rest . To address which of these two principles is implemented in the auditory system of the cricket , we investigated the responses of a single auditory neuron , called interneuron AN2 , to different sound signals . We found that adaptation actually reduces the amount of encoded information when considering the whole range of input signals . However , the changes were also not in agreement with the idea that only the most important signal is transmitted , because the amount of information conveyed about the loudest part of the signal does not increase . Thus , we here report the unusual case of a reduction of information transfer by adaptation , while in most other systems reported of so far adaptation actually enhances coding of sensory information .
Prions are unconventional infectious agents that cause fatal diseases in humans and other animals . Previous studies have suggested that prion infectivity depends upon the ability of a sample to change the shape of a normal brain protein called the prion protein ( PrP ) into a disease-associated shape . Other studies have identified a pair of positively charged domains within the structure of PrP that appear to be important for the interaction between the normal and disease-associated shapes of the prion protein . In this report , we show that the shape of normal PrP can change into the disease-associated form through a novel mechanism that does not involve positively charged domains . However , it appears that interaction through the positively charged domains is required to produce infectious prions efficiently . Our results show for the first time that the ability to change the shape of normal PrP into its disease-associated state is not the sole determinant of prion infectivity .
Understanding animal decision-making has been a fundamental problem in neuroscience and behavioral ecology . Many studies have analyzed the actions representing decision-making in behavioral tasks , in which rewards are artificially designed with specific objectives . However , it is impossible to extend this artificially designed experiment to a natural environment , as in the latter , the rewards for freely-behaving animals cannot be clearly defined . To this end , we sought to reverse the current paradigm so that rewards could be identified from behavioral data . Here , we propose a new reverse-engineering approach ( inverse reinforcement learning ) , which can estimate a behavioral strategy from time-series data of freely-behaving animals . By applying this technique on C . elegans thermotaxis , we successfully identified the respective reward-based behavioral strategy .
Microalgae are important contributors to global ecological balance , and process nearly half of the world’s carbon each year . Additionally , these organisms are deeply rooted in the earths’ evolutionary history . To better understand why algae are such strong survivors in aquatic environments and to better understand their contribution to global ecology , we sequenced the genome of a microalga that is abundant in both fresh and salt water environments , but poorly represented by current genomic information . We identify protein-coding genes responsible for the synthesis of potential toxins as well as those that produce antibiotics , and describe gene products that enhanced the ability of the alga to use light energy . We observed that a day-night cycle , similar to that found in natural environments , significantly impacts the expression of algal genes whose products are responsible for synthesizing fats—a rich source of nutrition for many other organisms .
These studies establish a unique animal model of aggressive forms of breast cancer for which there are no effective , targeted treatments . Rb , p53 , and Brca1 are associated with inherited forms of cancer , but defects in these pathways are also found together in a subset of breast cancer patients without a family history of the disease . Simultaneous inactivation of all three pathways causes more aggressive disease than do pair-wise combinations , indicating that the pathways play non-overlapping roles in tumor prevention .
Dengue infection is the leading cause of arbovirus illness worldwide with an estimated 2 . 5 billion people at risk . The primary dengue vector , Ae . aegypti , develops mainly in artificial containers in and around human dwellings . Often a small number of container types are responsible for a large proportion of adult mosquitoes in a region . To this point , most studies of Ae . aegypti production have failed to consider the spatial arrangement of development sites . For this investigation , mosquito populations and development sites were sampled in a spatially exhaustive manner over a four year time period in rural Kamphaeng Phet , Thailand . The data indicate that not only are some container types more productive than others , but that the local density of development sites has a large effect on the productivity of individual containers . Specifically , containers in areas of high development site density are more likely to be productive . The ecological setting and density of development sites should be incorporated in efforts to model and predict Ae . aegypti population levels . This understanding is vital in determining the feasibility of population control and the effort necessary to reduce vector populations below epidemic thresholds .
Decision-making in all animals , including humans , involves weighing available information about the external environment as well as the animals’ internal conditions . Information about the environment is obtained via the sensory nervous system , whereas internal state can be assessed via cues such as levels of hormones or nutrients . How multiple external and internal inputs are processed in the nervous system to drive behavior or development is not fully understood . In this study , we examine how the nematode C . elegans integrates dietary information received by the gut with environmental signals to alter nervous system function . We have found that a signaling complex , called TORC2 , acts in the gut to relay nutrition signals to alter hormonal signaling by the nervous system in C . elegans . Altered neuronal signaling in turn affects a food-dependent binary developmental decision in larvae , as well as food-dependent foraging behaviors in adults . Our results provide a mechanism by which animals prioritize specific signals such as feeding status to appropriately alter their development and/or behavior .
Embryonic stem cells have two remarkable properties: they can proliferate very rapidly , and they can give rise to all of the body's cell types . Understanding how gene activity is regulated in embryonic stem cells will be an important step towards therapeutic applications . The activity of genes is regulated by proteins called transcription factors , which bind to stretches of DNA sequences that act as on or off switches . We identified genes that are active in mouse embryonic stem cells but not in differentiated cells . We reasoned that if these genes have similar patterns of activity , they may be regulated by the same transcription factors . We therefore developed a computational approach that takes information on gene activity and predicts DNA sequences that may act as switches . Using this approach , we discovered new DNA switches that regulate gene activity in mouse and human embryonic stem cells . Furthermore , we identified a transcription factor that binds to one of these DNA switches and is important for the rapid proliferation of embryonic stem cells . Our approach sheds light on the genetic regulation of embryonic stem cells and will be broadly applicable to questions of how gene activity is regulated in other cell types of interest .
The negative sense RNA genome of the rhabdoviruses is encapsidated by the nucleoprotein , and the replication of the genome requires a continuous supply of RNA-free , monomeric nucleoprotein ( N0 ) to encapsidate the newly synthesized ( + ) RNA intermediate antigenomes and ( − ) RNA genomes . In this process , the viral phosphoprotein acts as a chaperone , forming a heterodimeric complex , named N0-P , which prevents nascent N molecules from self-assembling and from binding to cellular RNAs . We reconstructed the N0-P complex of the prototype rhabdovirus , vesicular stomatitis virus , and characterized its structure by crystal X-ray diffraction and solution experiments . Our results show how the N-terminal region of the phosphoprotein folds upon binding to the RNA-free nucleoprotein and how it prevents the non-specific encapsidation of host-cell RNA . This complex is soluble and heterodimeric , but by forcing it to polymerize into a crystal it associated into a circular decamer of heterodimers very similar to the previously crystallized decameric N-RNA ring . On the basis of our results , we propose a model that explains the role of the phosphoprotein in the encapsidation of newly synthesized RNA and in the initiation of RNA synthesis by the viral polymerase .
Understanding sensory stimuli from the environment and deciding how best to respond to it behaviorally is essential for survival . What makes organisms efficient in encoding these sensory stimuli ? This study provides a novel view on this unresolved issue using the visual system of the fly . We show that a specific synaptic connectivity manifested via gap junctions ( GJs ) among axons in the Vertical System ( VS ) network leads to particularly high encoding efficiency of the axis of rotation of the fly’s ego motion . Due to these GJs , triplets of VS neurons ( the VS5-6-7 triplet ) , which connect to a downstream motor system , encode motion stimuli at an efficiency close to the physical limit; this efficient encoding is necessary for evasive maneuvers that are critical for the fly to escape predators . We then suggest why GJs in the VS network enable such high encoding efficiency .
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is a major causative agent of hand , foot , and mouth disease and a diverse array of neurological diseases , including fatal encephalitis , in children . EV71 has increasingly caused large outbreaks of hand , foot , and mouth disease particularly in the Asia-Pacific region . Recently , we identified human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( PSGL-1 ) as a functional receptor for EV71 . PSGL-1 on immune cells is a key molecule involved in early inflammatory events and the PSGL-1–selectin interaction is regulated by post-translational modifications of PSGL-1 . Here , we found that a post-translational modification , tyrosine sulfation , at the N-terminal region of PSGL-1 is critical for its binding to EV71 and subsequent viral replication in lymphocytes . Important roles for tyrosine sulfation in protein-protein interactions have been widely accepted; however , involvement of tyrosine sulfation of the receptor in the virus-receptor interaction has been reported only for HIV-1 . Therefore , this is the second and unique example of the involvement of tyrosine sulfation in specific virus-receptor interactions . Our results shed new light on biological roles for tyrosine-sulfated proteins in cell tropism and the pathogenesis of EV71 .
The lack of effective vaccines and therapies for leishmaniasis along with the well-known resistance of the parasite to available agents prompted us to explore the effects of several mTOR inhibitors , including rapamycin , as potential therapeutics against Leishmania ( L . ) major , the classic Leishmania parasite strain . We found that systemic treatment with rapamycin and GSK-2126458 , but not with KU-0063794 , slows the progression of the disease and lowers the parasite burden in infected BALB/c mice . In addition , we observed more pronounced activation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the draining lymph nodes in addition to a T helper 1 ( Th1 ) -biased cytokine profile among the splenic cells of treated mice . Importantly , rapamycin blood levels achieved after in vivo treatment with this agent was far lower than the in vitro doses of rapamycin that killed the promastigote form of the parasite . Therefore , we propose that the impressive therapeutic efficacy of rapamycin , and perhaps GSK-2126458 , against L . major are likely owed to the immunomodulatory properties of these agents . Based on our findings , mTOR may be an attractive target for the development of novel and potent anti-Leishmania agents .
Natural transformation is a widespread biological property in bacteria which allows them to acquire new genes . In Neisseria meningitidis , transformation generates an astonishing variability which contributes markedly to its success as a human pathogen . However , meningococci protect themselves from uncontrolled transformation by foreign DNA by preferentially taking up their own DNA through specific recognition of motifs known as DUS ( DNA uptake sequence ) by the ComP receptor . We show here that ( i ) ComP controls transformation in the meningococcus both in the presence and in the absence of DUS , ( ii ) some bases of DUS are more important for recognition by ComP and transformation , ( iii ) DUS variants in other human Neisseria commensals are impaired for transformation of N . meningitidis , and ( iv ) ComP homologs in these commensals are able to bind their cognate DUS variant and mediate DUS-specific transformation . These findings shed new light on the molecular events involved in the earliest step in natural transformation . They also reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism that is likely to play a key role in helping the many competent species that inhabit a “crowded” environment such as the human nasopharynx to curb transformation by foreign DNA and preserve species structure .
Cytokinesis requires assembly of an actomyosin ring adjacent to the plasma membrane , which upon contraction pulls the membrane to form a cleavage furrow . In fungi ring closure is coordinated with the synthesis of a cell wall septum . Knowledge about the molecules anchoring the ring to the membrane is very limited . We have found that fission yeast paxillin , located at the ring , and Bgs1 , the enzyme responsible for primary septum formation , located at the membrane , cooperate during cytokinesis . Both are required to anchor the ring to the membrane and to maintain it during cytokinesis . Moreover , both proteins cooperate to form the septum . Accordingly , paxillin is essential when Bgs1 is depleted . When both proteins are missing , the contractile ring forms but the lateral cell wall overgrows inwards without a defined cleavage furrow and septum formation . During cytokinesis there is an increase of paxillin which depends on the SH3 domain of the F-BAR protein Cdc15 . Consequently the absence of this domain mimics the phenotype of paxillin absence in Bgs1-depleted cells . Interestingly , a decreased function of both Cdc15 and paxillin uncouples the septum synthesis from the ring contraction , indicating an essential cooperation between these proteins and Bgs1 for proper cytokinesis .
Glanders is a disease of antiquity , recognized as a malady of equines by Hippocrates and Aristotle . The causative agent , Burkholderia mallei , is currently feared as a potential biological weapon and has been used as such in the American Civil War and both World Wars to cripple equine military components . In the more economically developed countries , glanders has been eradicated through large scale culling . As a result , our understanding of transmission dynamics and networks is limited . However , regions of endemicity still exist in Asia , the Middle-East , Africa , and South America where it infects solipeds and camels . These areas provide reservoirs for re-introduction of glanders into countries previously listed as glanders-free . Here , we demonstrate the utility of high-resolution genotyping and whole genome sequence analysis in the investigation of a recent outbreak of glanders in horses and camels in Bahrain , a previously declared glanders-free country . Our analyses demonstrate that not one , but two strains likely caused this outbreak , and that these strains probably came from a similar geographic region via importation of infected animals . Even with careful monitoring , the global trade of animals from glanders-endemic regions can re-introduce and possibly re-establish this disease in animal populations of countries that have previously eradicated it .
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is tropical and subtropical worldwide vector-borne disease produced by protozoan parasites from the genus Leishmania that include over 20 species and produce an estimated 0 . 7 million to 1 . 3 million new cases annually . The disease features are dependent on the patient immunological stage , the parasite biology and to some extent are determined by the geographic regions in which it occurs . New World cutaneous infections known as American Cutaneous Leishmaniasis ( ACL ) are associated with metastatic sequelae and treatment failure . In the present study we found that in patients with ACL infected in the Colombian Amazon and Orinoco regions and not responding to Glucantime treatment , the predominant species was L . braziliensis . In addition 35% of these lesion-isolated parasites show some level of drug resistance . We also found that these resistant parasites display reduced competence when infecting the human monocytic cell line U-937 in “in vitro” tests and are associated with lesions of reduced size . According to our findings the indication for a second round of treatment with pentavalent antimonial derivatives in patients with ACL that did not respond to the first round of treatment is arguable .
The synthesis of numerous molecules involved in the virulence potential and fitness of pathogenic bacteria requires a particular enzyme family , i . e . phosphopantetheinyl transferases ( PPTases ) . To date , the synthesis of a given bioactive metabolite was thought to require a specific PPTase . As PPTases are being investigated as promising targets for antibacterial development , we addressed the question of a possible functional interchangeability between PPTases in Escherichia coli . PPTases are known to be involved in the synthesis of low-molecular weight iron chelators ( siderophores ) , and of a genotoxin named colibactin . Here we demonstrated interplay between the synthesis pathways leading to the production of siderophores and of colibactin . We showed that inactivation of both PPTases abolished the virulence of extra-intestinal pathogenic E . coli ( ExPEC ) in a mouse sepsis model . To our knowledge , this is the first demonstration of interplay between multiple PPTases-requiring pathways leading to the biosynthesis of functionally distinctive virulence factors , in a given microorganism . The extensive substrate specificity of PPTase ClbA could account for the co-selection and co-evolution of genomic islands encoding colibactin and yersiniabactin siderophore .
We describe a computationally efficient method to use insertion and deletion events , in addition to substitutions , in phylogenetic inference . To date , many evolutionary models in probabilistic phylogenetic inference methods have only accounted for substitution events , not for insertions and deletions . As a result , not only do tree inference methods use less sequence information than they could , but also it has remained difficult to integrate phylogenetic modeling into sequence alignment methods ( such as profiles and profile-hidden Markov models ) that inherently require a model of insertion and deletion events . Therefore an important goal in the field has been to develop tractable evolutionary models of insertion/deletion events over time of sufficient accuracy to increase the resolution of phylogenetic inference methods and to increase the power of profile-based sequence homology searches . Our model offers a partial answer to this problem . We show that our model generally improves inference power in both simulated and real data and that it is easily implemented in the framework of standard inference packages with little effect on computational efficiency ( we extended dnaml , in Felsenstein's popular phylip package ) .
Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) is a highly prevalent virus that causes cold sores and genital herpes but also increases the chance of contracting HIV by several folds . In fact , most new cases of HIV in Africa occur in people infected with HSV . Thus , a protective HSV vaccine would have a large impact on public health . Currently , the process by which immunity to HSV is generated is incompletely understood . Paradoxically , the first immune cells to become infected , Langerhans cells in the epidermis , are not the cells that initiate the immune response , while the dermal dendritic cells thought to be responsible for initiating the immune response are not likely to be infected . Here , we have shown , in human skin models and genital herpes lesion biopsies , an interaction between these dendritic cells that could relay HSV to the lymph node . HSV is taken up by the epidermal Langerhans cells that then migrate into the dermis , die and are taken up by another subset of dermal dendritic cells—the homologs of those in mice which stimulate HSV-specific T cells in the lymph node . Thus , a mucosal or intradermal vaccine targeting these two dendritic cells may be required .
Leishmania parasites lodge in host cells within phagolysosome-like structures called parasitophorous vacuoles ( PVs ) . Depending on the species , amastigote forms can be individually hosted within small , tight-fitting PVs or grouped within loose , spacious PVs . Using multidimensional live cell imaging , we examined the biogenesis of the two PV phenotypes in macrophages exposed to L . major ( a representative of the tight PV phenotype ) or L . amazonensis ( an example of the loose PV phenotype ) amastigotes . L . major PVs undergo fission as parasites divide; we demonstrate that in the course of fission there are transients of the lysosomotropic fluorescent probe Lysotracker . In contrast , during the course of amastigote population size expansion , L . amazonensis PVs do accumulate Lysotracker while increasing in diameter and volume . The large PVs fuse together , and the products of fusion undergo size and shape remodeling . The biogenesis/remodeling of the two types of Leishmania PVs is accompanied by a reduction in the number of macrophage acidic vesicles . The present imaging study adds new morphometric information to the cell biology of Leishmania amastigote intracellular parasitism .
Homologous recombination promotes genetic exchange between regions containing identical or highly related sequences . This is useful in repairing damaged DNA , or in reassorting genes in meiosis , but uncontrolled homologous recombination can create genomic instability . Chromosomes are made up of a complex of DNA and protein , called chromatin . DNA within chromatin is packed tightly in order to fit the entire genome inside a cell; but chromatin structure may become relaxed to allow access to enzymes that regulate gene expression , transcribe genes into mesenger RNA , or carry out gene replication . We asked if chromatin packing regulates homologous recombination . To do this , we tethered a factor associated with compact chromatin , called HP1 , adjacent to an immunoglobulin gene locus at which homologous recombination occurs constitutively , in order to produce a diverse repertoire of antibodies . We found that the compact , repressive chromatin structure produced by HP1 prevents homologous recombination . This finding suggests that regulated changes in chromatin structure may contribute to maintaining genomic stability by preventing recombination between repetitive sequences .
The cerebellum allows us to rapidly adjust motor behavior to the needs of the situation . This cerebellum-based motor learning is guided by the difference between the desired and the actual behavior , i . e . , by error information . It is usually assumed that not only immediate but also future motor behavior will benefit from error information because it induces lasting modifications of parallel fiber synapses on cerebellar Purkinje cells ( PCs ) . These modifications affect the transformation of movement-related input into PC output and thence behavioral adjustments . Olivary climbing fibers , likewise connecting with PCs , are thought to transport information on instant errors needed for the synaptic modification yet not to contribute to error memory . Here , we report work on monkeys’ motor learning that challenges this concept . We not only identify a neural signature of the error at the time of its occurrence but also a reverberation of this signature much later , before a new manifestation of the behavior and therefore potentially involved in its improvement .
Many neurodegenerative diseases are associated with aggregation of specific proteins . Thus we are interested in factors that influence the aggregation and how the aggregated proteins are associated with pathology . Here , we study a protein called TDP-43 that is frequently aggregated in the neurons of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) . TDP-43 aggregates and is toxic when expressed in yeast , providing a useful model for ALS . Remarkably , a protein that modified TDP-43 toxicity in yeast successfully predicted a new ALS susceptibility gene in humans . We now report a new modifier of TDP-43 toxicity , Sis1 . We show that expression of TDP-43 in yeast inhibits degradation of damaged protein , while overexpression of Sis1 restores degradation . Thus suggests a link between protein degradation and TDP-43 toxicity . Furthermore we show that a mammalian protein similar to Sis1 reduces TDP-43 toxicity in primary rodent neurons . This identifies the mammalian Sis1-like gene as a new ALS therapeutic target and possible susceptibility gene .
Chagas disease is a neglected illness caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , which affects millions of people in the endemic countries in Latin America . Despite the knowledge about the parasite genetic diversity , there still some gaps regarding the association between those different genotypes and clinical manifestations , including the level of parasites circulating in the bloodstream . From a group of adult chronic patients presenting the cardiac and indeterminate forms , originated from different regions of Brazil , we evaluate the parasite load and T . cruzi genotyping in order to search an association with the clinical features of Chagas disease . We observe a high diversity of T . cruzi genotypes in Brazil , although the genotypes TcVI , TcII and mixed infection TcVI+TcII were more prevalent , but no correlation with the cardiac or indeterminate clinical forms was observed . In contrast , we found that the age of patient and infection by TcII are associated to higher parasite load levels .
In this study we provide results of the first active and extensive surveillance effort for rabies virus ( RABV ) circulation among bats in Guatemala . The survey included multiple geographic areas and multiple species of bats , to assess the broader public and veterinary health risks associated with rabies in bats in Guatemala . RABV was isolated from vampire bats ( Desmodus rotundus ) collected in two different locations in Guatemala . Sequencing of the isolates revealed a closer relationship to Mexican and Central American vampire bat isolates than to South American isolates . The detection of RABV neutralizing antibodies in 11 species , including insectivorous , frugivorous , and sanguivorous bats , demonstrates viral circulation in both hematophagous and non-hematophagous bat species in Guatemala . The presence of bat RABV in rural communities requires new strategies for public health education regarding contact with bats , improved laboratory-based surveillance of animals associated with human exposures , and novel techniques for modern rabies prevention and control . Additionally , healthcare practitioners should emphasize the collection of a detailed medical history , including questions regarding bat exposure , for patients presenting with clinical syndromes compatible with rabies or any clinically diagnosed progressive encephalitis .
Transcription of eukaryotic genes is regulated by sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins that bind to the DNA as well as the structure of the chromatin associated with the specific gene . Posttranslational modification of histones plays a major role in the higher order structure of the chromatin and whether it serves as heterochromatin or inactive chromatin versus euchromatin or active chromatin . The nuclear lamina has been shown to promote the maintenance of heterochromatin in mammalian cells , but little is known about where heterochromatin is modulated . In this study , we find that the A-type lamins are required for the targeting of herpes simplex virus genomic DNA to the periphery of the infected cell nucleus and for the prevention or reduction of heterochromatin on the viral genome and transcriptional silencing of the viral genome . This raises the broader function of the nuclear lamina in the regulation of both euchromatin and heterochromatin . We propose that the nuclear lamina is a platform for the organization of chromatin remodeling and histone modification enzymes that regulate both euchromatin and heterochromatin .
Mitochondria carry out many vital functions in the eukaryotic cells , from energy metabolism to programmed cell death . These organelles descended from bacterial endosymbionts , and during their evolution , the cell established a mechanism to transport nuclear-encoded proteins into mitochondria . Embedded in the mitochondrial outer membrane is a molecular machine , known as the translocase of the outer membrane ( TOM ) complex , that plays a key role in protein import and biogenesis of the organelle . Here , we provide evidence that the TOM complex of hydrogenosomes , a metabolically specialised anaerobic form of mitochondria in Trichomonas vaginalis , is composed of highly divergent core subunits and lineage-specific peripheral subunits . Despite the evolutionary distance , the T . vaginalis TOM ( TvTOM ) complex has a conserved triplet-pore structure but with a unique skull-like shape suggesting that the TOM in the early mitochondrion could have formed three pores . Our results contribute to a better understanding of the evolution and adaptation of protein import machinery in anaerobic forms of mitochondria .
Variation in regulatory regions as well as coding regions of the genome can affect the expression of genes . Many of these variants have been associated with different diseases and other traits , but the underlying biological pathways are often left unknown . Analysing the effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) on gene expression levels , referred to as expression quantitative trait loci ( eQTL ) , in specific cell types can be used to gain insight into specific mechanisms of disease . By analyzing eQTLs in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells , essential elements of adaptive immune response , we identified both cis- and trans-acting SNPs in genes associated with several autoimmune diseases .
The principal strategy for the control of HAT is based on early detection and prompt treatment of identified cases . A range of taboos are associated with HAT treatment in DRC . The origin of these taboos is not well understood . These taboos constitute major issues for patients and their families , lead to huge social pressure from the community on HAT patients and add in themselves to the burden caused by the disease itself . The aim of this study is to document the origin of these taboos and other cultural factors that are associated with HAT treatment , since an improved understanding of these factors and their implications may lead to strategies for improved community adherence to HAT screening and treatment . We found that the taboos are associated with the melarsoprol toxicity and have been established empirically following past interactions between healthcare providers and communities . The prohibitions started as simple instructions provided by healthcare providers about the management of HAT cases , but over time evolved into the community-based taboos we observe now . Use of less toxic treatment alternatives for HAT , dissemination of correct information regarding HAT treatment regimens , possible occurrence of adverse events and their cause would be beneficial to HAT control .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a life-threatening parasitic disease , transmitted by a sandfly . A survey was conducted to estimate the VL incidence in 45 villages located in the eastern part of Gedaref State , the main endemic focus of VL in Sudan . Between the 5th of May and the 17th of June 2011 , we interviewed 17 , 702 households for a population of 94 , 369 . Sixteen individuals were diagnosed with primary VL through active case-detection , and 725 reported VL treatment over the past year . The overall incidence rate of VL over the past year was 7 . 0/1000 persons per year . The crude mortality rate over the mean recall period of 409 days was 0 . 13/10'000 persons per day . VL was a possible or probable cause for 19% of all deaths . Taking also into account the VL-specific mortality of 0 . 9/1000 per year , the incidence was estimated at 7 . 9/1000 per year . Overall , 12 . 5% of the population reported having been treated for VL in the past . VL is a major public health issue in Gedaref . Active VL case detection had a very low yield in a context of adequate access to care . Such strategy seems redundant if patients already have access to care .
A 9-kb module called the “supercoil sensor” was used to measure supercoil density at 10 positions in the 4 . 8-Mb Salmonella Typhimurium chromosome . The sensor includes a Lac operon flanked by a pair of directly repeated DNA–binding sites for the γδ recombinase . Measurements of chromosomal supercoil levels and the RNA polymerase elongation rates were made at various positions within the 6 potential macrodomains of the chromosome . Transcription and gyrase catalytic rates were mechanistically linked . Gyrase mutants with impaired activity caused the loss of from 30% to >95% of the diffusible supercoiling throughout most of the chromosome , while treatment with rifampicin that temporarily blocked transcription restored most of the lost supercoils in gyrase mutants . A gyrase defect also caused transcription elongation rates to decrease across the chromosome , and a mutation that reduced RNA polymerase efficiency increased average chromosome supercoiling levels . A model in which topoisomerases act close to highly transcribed operons to equilibrate the supercoil flux generated by transcription suggests that matched rates of gyrase turnover and transcription elongation speed determine the average supercoil density in bacterial chromosomes .
The protozoan parasite Leishmania causes serious infections in humans throughout the world . After being inoculated into the skin through the bite of infected sandflies , the parasites enter host cells and replicate . The lysosome-like intracellular vacuoles where Leishmania amazonensis replicates expand dramatically as the infection progresses . Here we studied the impact of vacuole expansion on the ability of the parasites to survive and replicate inside host cells . We found that the host cell responds to infection with Leishmania amazonensis by upregulating expression of LYST/Beige , a gene that regulates the size of lysosomes and of parasite-containing vacuoles . The parasites replicated more efficiently in the large vacuoles formed in cells that have a mutation in LYST/Beige , whereas the same cells overexpressing functional LYST/Beige generated small vacuoles that were not able to sustain parasite growth . Drug treatments that reduced or enhanced the size of parasite-containing vacuoles had a corresponding effect on intracellular replication , demonstrating that large vacuoles provide a growth advantage to Leishmania amazonensis . Our results indicate that host cells respond to Leishmania infections by producing a protein capable of reducing vacuole size , as a strategy to inhibit parasite growth .
In a wide range of brain disorders , mutations in specific genes cause alterations in the development and function of neural circuits that ultimately affect behavior . A major challenge is to uncover the mechanism and provide treatment which is capable of preventing brain damage . Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is a severe psychomotor retardation characterized by intellectual disabilities , neurological impairment and abnormal thyroid hormone ( TH ) levels . Mutations in the TH transporter MCT8 are associated with AHDS . Mice that lack the MCT8 protein exhibited impaired TH levels , as is the case in human patients; however , they lack neurological defects . Here , we generated an mct8 mutant ( mct8−/− ) zebrafish , which exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies and mimics pathological conditions of AHDS patients . The zebrafish is a simple transparent vertebrate and its nervous system is conserved with mammals . Time-lapse live imaging of single axons and synapses , and video-tracking of behavior revealed deficiencies in neural circuit assembly , which are associated with disturbed sleep and altered locomotor activity . In addition , since the mct8−/− larvae provides a highthroughput platform for testing therapeutic drugs , we showed that TH analogs can recover neurological deficiencies in an animal model for psychomotor retardation .
Like all herpesviruses , HCMV expresses two envelope proteins , gH/gL and gB that are essential for entry . Models for how herpesvirus gB and gH/gL molecules function describe binding of gH/gL to gB that leads to conformational changes and activation of membrane fusion and virus entry . However , no evidence for direct binding of any gH/gL molecule to gB , especially from infected cells or virus particles , has been described . We report the novel observations that HCMV gB and gH/gL form stable , preformed complexes in extracellular virions independent of receptor binding . These observations are fundamentally important for understanding how herpesvirus glycoproteins mediate entry into cells . Moreover , the description of gB-gH/gL complexes in virions has major implications in terms of designing HCMV vaccines .
Mitochondria are essential cellular organelles , which contain their own small circular genome in mammals . The mitochondrial genome is maternally inherited and encodes proteins critical for aerobic energy production . Mutations in mitochondrial DNA can lead to disruptions in aerobic energy production , which manifest as a wide spectrum of human clinical disorders . These mutations can segregate in mitotic and post-mitotic tissues , so that the proportion of the mutant genome can change with age , thereby affecting the clinical onset and severity of disease . The mechanisms regulating mtDNA segregation in mammals are not understood . We have used a mouse model of mtDNA segregation to elucidate the molecular basis of this process . Here , we demonstrate that the gene , Gimap3 , can regulate mtDNA segregation in mouse white blood cells . This is the first gene identified to regulate mtDNA segregation in mammals , which is also an important factor in cell survival . Future work on this protein will provide critical insight into the pathways that regulate mitochondrial DNA in white blood cells , an important factor in the pathogenesis of human mitochondrial DNA mutations .
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin and soft tissue infection caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans . Contact with an endemic area is the key risk factor for disease acquisition . Incubation period cannot be estimated in long-term residents of endemic areas but in Victoria , Australia a proportion of our cases are short term visitors . We previously estimated a mean incubation period of 4 . 5 months during a sustained outbreak on the Bellarine peninsula . Since then there has been a significant increase in Victorian cases , a decline in cases on the Bellarine peninsula and the rapid expansion of a new endemic area on the Mornington peninsula . We performed a new retrospective review of 443 BU notifications between 2013 and 2016 , identifying a further 20 cases with single or tightly clustered ( within 1 month ) exposures to BU-endemic areas . We estimated a mean incubation period in the new group of 4 . 8 months , very similar to our previous estimate . This knowledge assists clinicians assessing patients with compatible symptoms and a distant exposure to an endemic area , and public health practitioners seeking to prevent transmission . Our finding also suggests that the mode of transmission of BU may be similar in different geographic regions in Victoria .
The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma is auxotrophic for several lipids that it scavenges from host organelles . Several studies focused on deciphering the pathways implicated in host lipid delivery to the parasite , but less effort has been devoted to understand how lipids are regulated in Toxoplasma . The ‘sterol-sensing domain’ ( SSD ) is conserved across phyla and present in several membrane proteins involved in cholesterol homeostasis , cell signaling and cytokinesis . We studied the role of a SSD-containing protein in Toxoplasma which shows significant similarity with Niemann-Pick type C1 proteins ( NPC1 ) . Human NPC disease is typified by lysosomal accumulation of cholesterol and sphingolipids . Expression of the parasite NPC1-related protein ( named TgNCR1 ) in mammalian NPC1 mutant cells suppresses lipid accumulation in lysosomes . However , Toxoplasma never internalizes host cholesterol into lysosomes , which predicts a function for TgNCR1 unrelated to exogenous sterol transport . Indeed , genomic deletion of NCR1 does not result in abnormal levels of cholesterol in the parasites but in the overaccumulation of cholesteryl esters and sphingolipids . TgNCR1-deficient parasites form abundant storage lipid bodies and multiple parasites per cycle of division . This suggests that TgNCR1 functions in monitoring the levels of various lipids within Toxoplasma , which in turn impacts the parasite's lipid homeostasis and growth rate .
Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) is a rare congenital genetic disorder involving complete absence of the eyes and limb malformations , with missing or fused bones in the feet and hands . In this paper we report the identification of genetic changes to both copies of the SMOC1 gene as the cause of most cases of OAS . We have identified eight different mutations in this gene in unrelated individuals , and six of these mutations are predicted to completely abolish SMOC-1 function . We have also genetically disrupted the mouse Smoc1 gene to produce only 10% of normal levels . These animals , called Smoc1tm1a/tm1a mice , have similar hindlimb malformations to those seen in the limbs of human OAS patients , resulting in missing toes in some mice and fusion of toes in others . Smoc1tm1a/tm1a embryos and pups also have eye malformations but these are milder than those seen in human cases , perhaps because , unlike the human cases , the mice still have some residual function of the gene . We suggest that the normal function of SMOC-1 may be to regulate an important class of growth factors , called Bone Morphogenetic Proteins ( BMPs ) , which are essential for normal embryonic development .
Interferons are produced by cells in response to challenge by foreign pathogens such as viruses . The molecular mechanisms by which Type I interferons ( e . g . , IFNβ ) inhibit the replication of HIV-1 are not fully clarified . We identified a gene called TRIM22 that belongs to the tripartite motif ( TRIM ) family that was strongly induced by IFNβ . Using RNA interference to reduce the expression of TRIM22 , we showed that TRIM22 is a key mediator of the IFNβ response when expressed at natural levels . We demonstrate that TRIM22 blocks the intracellular trafficking of the viral structural protein Gag to the surface of the cell , and that the antiviral activity of TRIM22 is dependent on two cysteine residues ( Cys15 and Cys18 ) that are critical for the E3 ligase activity of RING-containing proteins . This report describes a mechanism by which Type I interferons block HIV-1 replication .
Much biodiversity ultimately relies on cooperation between different species , interactions called mutualisms . Benefits to one partner are gained by obtaining resources from the other , presenting a problem: what prevents one partner from exploiting the other at an unsustainable level ? Fig trees are pollinated by tiny wasps that only develop successfully themselves by each destroying a single female fig flower that would otherwise become a seed . Wasps tend to occur in long flowers near the fruit's centre , with seeds developing near the outer wall . Female wasps therefore favour long flowers for their offspring , and leave short flowers to develop into seeds . To understand why wasps exploit fig trees sustainably , we need to explain why this preference has evolved . The fig-pollinator mutualism is exploited by small parasitic wasps that attack pollinators from outside the fruit . In three Australasian fig species , we found that pollinator offspring in the outer layer of flowers were more likely to be parasitized than those in the inner layer . Our data thus indicate that long flowers provide enemy-free space for pollinator offspring at the fruit's centre . We suggest that the provision of variable length flowers by fig trees may contribute to mutualism stability by indirectly involving a third party: parasitic wasps , previously regarded as detrimental to both mutualists .
Growth is a dynamic process that responds to a changing environment . Most of the methods that we have for measuring are static and collecting information throughout an organisms lifecycle is labor and cost prohibitive . Advances in imaging and robotics technology have enabled novel approaches to understanding how plants adapt to the environment . Using the model grass Setaria and new methods for measuring parameters from images , we investigate the genetic architecture of plant height in response to water availability and planting density . Height is one of the most influential components of plant architecture , determining tradeoffs between competition and resource allocation and is an important trait for boosting yields . The non-destructive nature of plant height measurements has enabled us to monitor growth throughout the plant life cycle in both field and controlled environments . We identified several loci controlling height in a population derived from a wild strain of Setaria viridis and its domesticated relative Setaria italica , as well as the developmental time in which these loci act . In this population , alleles inherited from the wild parent act to increase plant height early , whereas a larger number of small effect alleles inherited from the domesticated parent collectively act to increase plant height later in development .
Ilheus virus causes mainly asymptomatic infections in humans with rare reports of encephalitis in northern South America . Ilheus virus is believed to be maintained in zoonotic cycles between birds and mosquitoes in Central and South America . Aiming to detect Ilheus virus and other arboviruses in the Pantanal region of west-central Brazil , host-seeking mosquitoes were collected by aspiration as they landed on horses , research team members , and caimans . Resting mosquitoes were collected from the walls inside a local residence and additional flying mosquitoes were captured in light traps . We isolated a Brazilian strain of Ilheus virus from a pool of 50 Aedes scapularis mosquitoes that were collected while landing on a member of our research team , in April , 2010 . Our finding confirms a recent report of Ilheus virus activity in the Pantanal derived from the detection of neutralizing antibodies in horses . The anthropophilic behavior of the infected mosquito ( es ) suggests a risk of Ilheus virus transmission from mosquitoes to humans in the region . We provide the virus' complete genomic sequence and present its phylogenetic relationship with other isolates .
Scabies caused by the Sarcoptes scabiei mite affects many people worldwide and has been recently recognized by the WHO as a truly neglected tropical disease . Currently available treatments are insufficient to overcome this insidious disease and its co-morbidities for example impetigo , rheumatic heart disease and post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis . Treatment management is a major issue , as problems with compliance as well as mite resistance to current drugs are reported . Data have accumulated indicating that moxidectin could be a genuine new candidate drug for sustainable scabies control . To provide proof of concept , we utilized an experimental scabies pig model that closely resembles the human route of scabies infection . We demonstrated that a single moxidectin dose , when compared with the currently recommended two-doses ivermectin treatment routine , achieved a better and faster acaricidal efficacy . Importantly , the skin half-life of moxidectin is longer , potentially covering the entire mite life cycle . Our baseline data demonstrate in principle the potential and feasibility of moxidectin treatment for scabies , thereby enabling the move into larger high-powered efficacy and dose ranging studies in human populations . Moxidectin could indeed play a game-changing role in scabies control and has the potential to accelerate the steps towards elimination of this insidious disease .
Peptidoglycan forms the stress-bearing sacculus that prevents lysis of bacteria due to turgor pressure . The integrity of peptidoglycan is therefore essential for bacterial survival and its synthesis is the target of many important antibiotics , such as penicillin . The final steps of peptidoglycan synthesis are catalyzed by penicillin-binding proteins , enzymes that are proposed to work in multi-enzyme complexes . We show that seven of the nine genes encoding peptidoglycan synthesis enzymes can be deleted from the Staphylococcus aureus genome without affecting normal growth and cell morphology in vitro , identifying the minimal peptidoglycan synthesis machinery of this organism . Identification of minimal machineries is key for synthetic biology efforts towards the design of systems with reduced complexity . However , the non-essential peptidoglycan synthetic proteins are important for survival of S . aureus in more challenging environments , such as in the presence of antibiotics that target cell wall synthesis or within the host , as shown by the inability of the mutant strain to establish a successful infection and kill Drosophila flies .
Burkholderia pseudomallei is the etiologic agent of melioidosis , a multifaceted deadly and difficult to treat disease of equatorial regions of the world . Disease manifestations range from acute infections to long term chronic infections . The factors by which this bacterium causes disease are not yet well understood . Studies thus far focused on elucidation of the roles of traditional virulence factors such as secreted proteins and exopolysaccharides , but virtually nothing is known about the roles of nutrient acquisition systems in B . pseudomallei's survival in its mammalian hosts . One nutrient that is essential for bacterial metabolism and pathogenicity is iron . As free iron is not readily available in nature , bacteria developed numerous mechanisms for iron acquisition from abiotic and biotic sources . These mechanisms include siderophores and hemin/hemoglobin utilization systems , and it is therefore not too surprising that mutants defective in these systems are often impaired in virulence . In this study we show that defined B . pseudomallei mutants defective in siderophore and hemin/hemoglobin utilization systems remain fully lethal in a murine melioidosis model and present evidence for in vitro ferritin-iron acquisition which may be one or perhaps the main means by which this pathogen sustains in vivo growth .
Many large-scale mathematical models describe metabolism to understand how microbes and other organisms ( including humans ) function and interact with each other and with their environment . Making these models is extremely time- and effort-intensive; it requires gathering and combining information from many sources , including the organism’s genome sequence , biological databases , scientific literature , and expert advice . The exact procedure and resources used depend on the model creators’ expertise and research interests , such that independently created models for the same organism are often very different and can hardly be compared . However , each model typically contains unique information that is ‘lost’ when working with a different model . To integrate the available knowledge , we developed a computational tool to build consensus metabolic models . Our tool—COMMGEN- combines independently generated models by matching identical parts and resolving differences between inconsistent parts . We apply our tool to four sets of models of different organisms . In all these sets , COMMGEN identified and resolved hundreds of inconsistencies . COMMGEN can be generally applied to standardize and improve models of metabolism , in particular for complex scenarios , such as those involving microbial communities and host-pathogen interactions .
The formation of bone around a cartilage template is the predominant ossification process in humans , and it has many complex steps that must be coordinated properly in space and time . Cartilage-producing cells ( chondrocytes ) first secrete a cartilage matrix around themselves that is rich in sugar-coated proteins called proteoglycans ( PGs ) . Chondrocytes then undergo a maturation process during which they express Indian hedgehog ( Ihh ) , a secreted protein that stimulates bone formation in surrounding cells . Here , we find that PGs in cartilage matrix regulate the timing of chondrocyte maturation , showing that interactions between cells and an environment that they themselves create are crucial for proper skeletal development . Our conclusions are based upon analyses of zebrafish with mutations in two different PG synthesis genes that produce identical skeletal defects . We argue that , as a consequence of deficient cartilage PG production , mutant chondrocytes accelerate the timing of ihh expression , which we show causes early and increased bone production in the surrounding cells .
Proper chromosome segregation during egg and sperm development is crucial to prevent birth defects and miscarriage . During chromosome replication , DNA entanglements are created that must be resolved before chromosomes can fully separate . In the oocytes of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , DNA entanglements persist between heterochromatic regions of the chromosomes until after spindle assembly and may facilitate the proper segregation of chromosomes during meiosis . Topoisomerase II enzymes can resolve DNA entanglements by cutting and untwisting tangled DNA . Decreasing Topoisomerase II ( Top2 ) levels in the ovaries of fruit flies led to sterility . RNAi knockdown of the Top2 gene in oocytes resulted in chromosomes that failed to fully separate their heterochromatic regions during meiosis I and caused oocytes to arrest in meiosis I . These studies demonstrate that the Top2 enzyme is required for releasing DNA entanglements between homologous chromosomes before the onset of chromosome segregation during Drosophila female meiosis .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a serious public health problem . Cases of canine VL ( CVL ) tend to precede cases of human VL and current control measures are ineffective in significantly reducing the number of disease cases . Therefore , in light of the need for new strategies , we evaluated the mass use of dog collars impregnated with deltamethrin as a public health measure to control and prevent CVL in a highly endemic region in Brazil . Although our results were inconclusive , they do point to the possible effectiveness of this measure if it were comprehensively implemented over an extended period of time . We identified the need to adjust the currently employed implementation strategy and call attention to the operational challenges faced by local zoonosis prevention authorities .
Genes located on the human X chromosome are not a random mix of genes: they tend to be expressed in relatively few tissues or are specific for a particular set of tissues , e . g . , brain regions . Prior attempts to explain this skewed gene content have hypothesized that the X chromosome might be peculiar because it has to balance mutations that are advantageous to one sex but deleterious to the other , or because it has to shut down during the process of sperm manufacture in males . Here we suggest and test a third possible explanation: that genes on the X chromosome are limited in their transcription levels and thus tend to be genes that are lowly or specifically expressed . We consider the suggestion that since these genes can only be expressed from one chromosome , as males only have one X , the ability to express a gene at very high rates is limited owing to potential transcriptional traffic jams . As predicted , we find that human X-located genes have maximal expression rates far below that of genes residing on autosomes . When we look at genes that have moved onto or off the X chromosome during recent evolution , we find the maximal expression is higher when not on the X chromosome . We also find that X-located genes that are relatively highly expressed are not able to increase their expression level further . Our model explains both the enrichment for tissue specificity and the paucity of certain tissues with X-located genes . Genes underrepresented on the X are either expressed in many tissues—such genes tend to have high maximal expression—or are from tissues that require a lot of transcription ( e . g . , fast secreting tissues like the liver ) . Just as many of the findings cannot be explained by the two earlier models , neither can the traffic jam model explain all the peculiar features of the genes found on the X chromosome . Indeed , we find evidence of a reproduction-related bias in X-located genes , even after allowing for the traffic jam problem .
Genetic analyses of Helicobacter pylori have illuminated human migrations and the history of human infection by these bacteria . Both humans and H . pylori originated in Africa , and have been intimately associated for at least 100 , 000 years . We hypothesized that communities who still live in relative isolation might provide further details about the evolutionary history of H . pylori in Africa . We therefore investigated H . pylori within Baka Pygmies of southeast Cameroon , who live as hunter-gatherers in the tropical rainforest , and compared those bacteria to H . pylori from neighboring farming populations of non-Baka ethnicities . Unexpectedly , Baka Pygmies were much less commonly infected ( 20 . 8% ) than the non-Baka ( 80 . 2% ) . H . pylori from hunter-gatherers and agriculturalists were genetically very similar and ancient H . pylori lineages were not identified in Baka . We used an epidemiological model to show that demographic factors including small population size and low life expectancy can account for the low infection rate among Baka Pygmies , and that this low rate could have been attained within a few hundred years of secondary contact with their neighbors . We also suggest that the ancestors of the Baka Pygmies were initially H . pylori-free or that their ancestral bacteria have been lost through past demographic fluctuations .
DENV NS5 is critical for virus RNA replication and an important drug target based on its high sequence conservation across serotypes , and the successful development of potent drugs that target the homologous NS5B of hepatitis C virus . NS5 also mediates other functions that are important for innate and adaptive immune responses by the infected host . Extensive gene swapping and functional analyses between NS5 of DENV serotypes 1 and 2 , that are the two most disparate in terms of nuclear vs cytoplasmic localization of NS5 identified the last 18 amino acid residues of the ~900 amino-acid residues long protein to be responsible for subcellular localization . Because this region is very flexible and not easily seen in crystal structures of DENV NS5 , co-crystals of the newly discovered peptide region with importin α were obtained . Structure-based mutations introduced into a DENV2 infectious clone showed that the proline to threonine at position 884 resulted in NS5 being mostly cytoplasmic without affecting virus replication . However mutation of arginine 888 , which is conserved in all flaviviruses , to alanine resulted in a completely non-viable virus , suggesting that the C-terminal region is essential for NS5 function irrespective of its role in subcellular location .
Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) cause significant physical debilitation , lowered economic productivity , and social ostracism for afflicted individuals . Five NTDs with available preventive chemotherapy: lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) , trachoma , schistosomiasis , onchocerciasis and the three soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) ; have been targeted for control or elimination , but resource constraints in endemic countries have impeded progress toward these goals . We have developed an integrated mapping protocol , Integrated Threshold Mapping ( ITM ) for use by Ministries of Health to decide where public health interventions for NTDs are needed . We compared this protocol to the World Health Organizations disease-specific mapping protocols in Mali and Senegal . Results from both methodologies indicated the same public health interventions for trachoma , LF and STH , while the ITM methodology resulted in a more targeted intervention for schistosomiasis . Our study suggests that the integrated methodology , which is also less expensive and logistically more feasible to implement , could replace disease-specific mapping protocols in resource-poor NTD-endemic countries .
During proliferation , eukaryotic cells segregate their replicated genome to generate two identical progeny through a highly regulated process called mitosis . Inaccuracy in this process results in cell inviability or aneuploidy . In the S . cerevisiae cell cycle , the exit from the mitotic state is triggered by the release of the phosphatase Cdc14 during the anaphase stage of mitosis from nucleolar chromatin , where it is sequestered and kept inactive . The role of chromatin , if any , in the regulation of Cdc14 sequestration and/or release is unexplored . Using genetic analysis , we have discovered that multiple evolutionarily conserved histone modifications are required for the early anaphase release of Cdc14 . These include monoubiquitination of histone H2B as well as two methylations of histone H3 on lysines 4 and 79 that require H2B monoubiquitination to occur efficiently . In addition , methylation of H3 on lysine 36 and a histone deacetylase recruited by this modification are also required . We suggest that these histone modifications are required on nucleolar chromatin for the accessibility and/or action of factors involved in the early anaphase release of Cdc14 . The nonredundant requirement for multiple chromatin modifications stands in contrast to the popular notion of a highly combinatorial “histone code” for the action of histone modifications .
In recent years , DNA microarrays have been used to produce large compendia of human gene expression data , which are promising resources for discovery of expression programs , sets of co-expressed genes orchestrating important physiological or pathological processes . However , these compendia present particular challenges , including cellular inhomogeneity within samples , genetic and environmental variation across samples , uncertainty in the numbers of programs and sample populations , and temporal behavior . To address these challenges , we developed GeneProgram , a state-of-the-art statistical framework that automatically generates interpretable maps of expression programs from microarray data . GeneProgram accomplishes this by simultaneously organizing tissues into groups and genes into overlapping programs with consistent temporal behavior , and sorting programs by a generality score . Such maps may be valuable for guiding future biological experiments; genes from programs with low generality scores might serve as new drug targets that exhibit minimal “cross-talk , ” and genes from high generality programs may maintain common physiological responses that go awry in disease states . Using synthetic and real data , we showed that GeneProgram outperformed several popular expression analysis methods . Further , on a compendium of time-series gene expression data measuring the responses of human cells to infectious agents , GeneProgram discovered programs that implicate surprising signaling pathways and receptor types .
Upon viral infection , the innate interferon ( IFN ) -γ producing Natural Killer ( NK ) cells provide fast , but short-term protection , while adaptive T cells confer delayed , but long-lasting immunity . Once acquired , effector properties remain stably imprinted in the T cell memory progeny . Recently , it was shown that human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection can shape the human NK cell repertoire and drive the generation and maintenance of NK cell expansions , which express the activating receptor CD94/NKG2C and have been described as memory-like NK cells . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying NK cell adaptive properties driven by HCMV infection have not been completely defined . In this study , we identify epigenetic imprinting of the IFNG locus as selective hallmark and crucial mechanism driving strong and stable IFN-γ expression in HCMV-specific NK cell expansions , thus providing a molecular basis for the regulation of adaptive features in innate cells .
Many bacterial pathogens encode a large array of “effector proteins” that are essential for successful infection . By definition , effector proteins are synthesized in bacteria and transported from bacteria into host cells . Within host cells , effector proteins directly interact with host factors in order to modulate their functions . Effector expression , translocation or activity within host cells must be precisely regulated over infection stages . Here we demonstrate the first example of an effector protein which targets and regulates another effector within host cells: Legionella effector protein LubX targets another effector protein SidH to proteasome-mediated protein degradation in the host cells . Expression and delivery of these effector proteins are differentially regulated , which results in LubX-dependent SidH shutdown at late stages of infection . We propose the designation “metaeffector” for this class of bacterial effector protein: an effector that targets and regulates another effector within host cells . Future studies may reveal that metaeffectors which play critical roles in coordinating the functional expression of other effectors spatiotemporally are prevalent among bacterial pathogens .
HIV is a rapidly evolving virus , displaying enormous genetic diversity between and even within infected individuals , with implications for vaccine design and drug treatment . Yet , recent research has shown that most new infections result from transmission of a single virus resulting in a homogeneous viral population in early infection . The process of diversification from the transmitted virus provides information about the selection pressures experienced by the virus during the establishment of a new infection . In this paper , we studied early diversification of the envelope gene in a cohort of 81 subjects acutely infected with HIV-1 subtype B and found evidence of adaptive evolution , with a proportion of sites that tended to diversify more rapidly than expected under a model of neutral evolution . Several of these rapidly diversifying sites facilitate escape from early cytotoxic immune responses . Interestingly , hypermutation of the virus , brought about by host proteins as a strategy to restrict infection , appeared to be associated with early immune escape . In addition to single base substitutions , insertions and deletions are an important aspect of HIV evolution . We show that insertion and deletion mutations occur evenly across the gene , but are preferentially fixed in the variable loop regions .
Epigenetics is the study of heritable phenotypic variations that are not caused by changes in the genotype . Silent Information Regulator ( SIR ) silencing in budding yeast is an important model system for epigenetics . The standard model of silencing relies on feedback , mediated by chromatin modifications ( for example , deacetylation of histone residues ) which lead to enhanced recruitment of chromatin modifiers . However , the SIR mechanism is not completely understood and it is important to investigate whether as-yet-undiscovered components alter the systems design in a fundamental way . We address this question using minimal models constructed from experimentally known interactions . Rather than building a detailed network model with parameters to fit for quantitative predictions , we build an effective model and study its bifurcation diagram which leads to robust qualitative predictions on the nature of mutants . This minimal modeling delineates a phase space with qualitatively different epigenetic mechanisms and states; some of which arise from drug/genetic perturbations and exhibit large cell-to-cell variation in chromatin marks . Our methodology can be applied to the study of epigenetic chromatin silencing in other model systems , especially Polycomb silencing , and reveals engineering principles that may be of broad relevance .
Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) is a major health problem , responsible for many deaths among young children in low-income countries . SAM manifests as oedematous or non-oedematous malnutrition . Oedematous malnutrition , also known as kwashiorkor , is a life-threatening condition , and even today we do not understand why some children develop oedema with malnutrition . Recently , an association between gut microbiota dysbiosis and oedematous malnutrition has been suggested . However , it remains unknown whether the gut microbiota differs between children with oedematous and non-oedematous malnutrition . In the present study , we collected fecal samples from children with SAM with and without oedema and analyzed the gut microbiota composition . We found that the pattern of bacteria was different in the two types of malnutrition , and that fewer different types of bacteria , on average , were present in the guts of non-oedematous children . However , we could not identify any specific type of bacteria that explained this difference . These results may contribute to the understanding of oedematous SAM , and inspire to further research into better ways of treatment of these very ill children .
Telomere length is a complex trait that varies among individuals . Its regulation is critical to the process of aging , and altered length control can result in either senescence or immortalization . We detected extreme variation between different subpopulations of the wild yeast S . paradoxus , the closest relative to S . cerevisiae . By tagging individual telomeric ends in these two groups , we show that regardless of the total number of telomeric repeats , the critical length at which any telomere is replenished remains conserved . To detect the quantitative trait loci ( QTLs ) behind the length variation , we used the two sub-populations with the most polar distribution to generate progeny and perform linkage analysis . Further , we validated that naturally occurring sequence variations in YKU80 and TLC1 , two genes previously shown to be important for telomere length maintenance , can explain part of the variation . We also identified other loci that influence both telomere length and gene silencing . Further investigation will provide more insights into the underlying genetic mechanism behind normal telomere regulation , potentially relevant in aging and aging-related disease such as cancer .
When decisions are made under uncertainty , we often decide not to choose immediately but to search for more information that reduces the uncertainty . In most psychological experiments , however , participants are forced to choose at once and cognitive models do not account for the possibility of deliberately delaying decisions . By modeling RT distributions in a sequential choice paradigm , we demonstrate that people decide not to decide when given the opportunity to sample more information . Importantly , this explicit decision to wait is distinguishable from an implicit delay in ongoing decisions as it actively inhibits this ongoing process . We then looked at EEG spectral power in the beta-band ( frequencies from 14 to 30 Hz ) , which is known to reflect both the preparation and inhibition of responses . The obtained pattern is consistent with our proposal that participants repeatedly alternated between considering and postponing their decision in the sequential task . In an additional behavioral experiment , we show that our model also predicts RTs of the decision to sample more information . Hence , our combination of cognitive modeling and EEG provides converging evidence for the existence of a decision that is usually not directly observable .
Hereditary nasal parakeratosis ( HNPK ) , an inherited monogenic autosomal recessive skin disorder , leads to crusts and fissures on the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers . We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) and mapped the causative mutation to a small interval on chromosome 2 . We re-sequenced the entire genome of one HNPK affected dog and detected three protein-changing mutations in the critical interval . We genotyped these three variants in larger cohorts of dogs and only one showed perfect genotype-phenotype association , prompting us to consider this variant , a missense mutation in SUV39H2 , as the most likely causative variant for HNPK . SUV39H2 is an enzyme involved in histone methylation and epigenetic silencing , a process determining the regulation of gene expression during keratinocyte differentiation . A loss of SUV39H2 function is predicted to result in delayed differentiation , which is compatible with the histopathological changes that we observed in biopsies from nasal epidermis of HNPK affected Labrador Retrievers . Thus , our results provide the most likely causative mutation for a hereditary disease in dogs that can now be eradicated by selective breeding . In addition , our results also provide the first hint that SUV39H2 , whose in vivo function is not fully understood , may be involved in keratinocyte differentiation .
Genetic reassortments between avian and swine influenza viruses are likely to occur in the swine lower respiratory track , and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant; determination of tissue tropisms for potential reassortants between contemporary avian and swine influenza viruses would help identify transmissible reassortants with public health risks .
Infections with the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni that cause schistosomiasis ( also called Bilharzia ) were not usually treated during pregnancy until 2002 , but in 2002 a World Health Organization ( WHO ) team of experts recommended that praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy should be done . However , there was limited information on the effects of maternal S . mansoni infection and treatment during pregnancy on the outcomes in the offspring . We conducted a study in the Entebbe peninsula within Lake Victoria in Uganda to examine whether maternal S . mansoni infection or its treatment during pregnancy may have effects on the children's susceptibility to the infection . The children were examined at age five years old for the level of S . mansoni infection and for immune responses to schistosomes . At five years old few of the children in our study cohort were infected with S . mansoni . Our findings suggest that maternal infection with , or praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy did not influence the level of S . mansoni infection among the offspring . However our findings suggest an influence on regulation of the body's immune responses to schistosomes , which may have some effect on the progress of disease manifestations . This is an issue that needs further investigation .
The main cells that are involved in cleaning up microbial pathogens are macrophages . Upon an infection , macrophages are being recruited to the site of infection by a number of different stimuli . In addition , during an infection , macrophages are also activated by cytokines such as interferon-γ and tumor necrosis factor-α that is released from other immune cells . Such macrophage activation is important to achieve a rapid and efficient clearance of microbial pathogens . In this study , we found that macrophage activation induces uptake through macropinocytosis rather than receptor-mediate phagocytosis . As a consequence , microbial material as well as particles can be internalized far more efficiently; In addition , the internalized cargo is rapidly destroyed within lysosomes . We also provide the mechanisms for the switch from phagocytosis to macropinocytosis , which turned out to be the cytokine-induced phosphorylation of the host protein coronin 1 . Phosphorylated coronin 1 activated the lipid kinase phosphoinositide 3-kinase , which is known to be responsible for the entry of cargo through macropinocytosis . Together these results provide evidence for a hitherto unrecognized mechanisms to regulate the internalization and degradation of infectious material during an infection .
Sleeping sickness is a disease which results in serious physical and mental symptoms and is ultimately deadly if not treated . It is caused by sub-species of Trypanosoma brucei transmitted by tsetse which live exclusively in Africa . Currently , the only preventive measure against sleeping sickness is reduction of tsetse population in the areas where these flies and humans share the same living space . This can be achieved through the use of traps or insecticide-treated targets to attract and kill tsetse . As the traps are newly introduced in some areas , we explored how local communities perceive them . We compared their views to those of communities living in areas where traps have been used sporadically for more than 10 years . Despite villages with or without experience of vector control being less than 10 km apart , they had very different perceptions: the group new to targets had many negative perceptions , associated with witchcraft and supernatural powers , while the group knowing targets from the past perceived them positively and beneficial . Understanding of local perceptions is important , because it will help us to involve communities affected by sleeping sickness in tsetse control programs . Without their support these programs are short-lived and ineffective .
Most sexual eukaryotes require recombination between homologous chromosomes for the proper formation of haploid gametes from diploid germ cells . Evolutionarily , recombination increases the effectiveness of selection in natural populations , thus explaining the pervasiveness of recombination and sex . Recombination is also a central parameter in population genetic studies designed to detect the presence of selection acting across genomes . Current evolutionary analyses are hindered , however , by the use of imprecise recombination rates that can influence the results and skew their interpretation . This limitation is associated with the lack of detailed characterization of natural variation in recombination across genomes and within species . Our study in Drosophila melanogaster represents the first integrated , whole-genome description of recombination that alleviates these deficiencies in any organism . Our results and conclusions will help to characterize the molecular basis of the observed variation in recombination across genomes and have an immediate impact on population genetic analyses of selection , laying the foundation for a new generation of population models that will better capture natural variation in recombination and its consequences .
In eukaryotes , transposable elements and other DNA repeats are important parts of genomes . Suppression of these sequences is required for genome stability and integrity . DNA methylation is an important chromatin modification that prevents the expression and movement of these repeat sequences . Small interfering RNAs initiate DNA methylation and transcriptional gene silencing of the sequences . In the plant model organism Arabidopsis thaliana , DNA methylation is mediated by an RNA–directed DNA methylation ( RdDM ) pathway . Here we report that the double-stranded RNA-binding protein IDN2 and it paralogs IDP1 and IDP2 ( IDN2 PARALOG 1 and 2 ) cooperate and form a novel complex that is required for RNA–directed DNA methylation . Unlike IDN2 , IDP1 and IDP2 have no double-stranded RNA binding ability . We propose that the IDN2-IDP1/2 is a complex that functions at a downstream step of the RdDM pathway . The findings significantly increase our understanding of the plant RdDM pathway as well as of the RNA–mediated chromatin changes in yeast and animals .
Leishmania is the parasite responsible for the disease leishmaniasis , present in all continents . Leishmania parasites are spread through infected sand-flies and , during transmission into the vertebrate host , neutrophils are among the first cells to arrive at the infection site . Since neutrophils are key players at the frontline of defense against invading organisms , we investigated their response to Leishmania braziliensis . Importantly , L . braziliensis causes both Cutaneous and Mucocutaneous Leishmaniasis , two clinical manifestations characterized by their chronic development and by the presence of skin lesions with tissue destruction . Upon inoculation of mice with L . braziliensis , neutrophils rapidly arrive at the site of infection . We then observed that culture of mouse neutrophils with L . braziliensis induced the expression of adhesion molecules , production of Reactive Oxygen Species and secretion of elastase and TNF-α , two important inflammatory mediators . Also , infection with L . braziliensis induced neutrophil apoptosis , a cell death mechanism key for regulating inflammation . Our results show that neutrophils respond to presence of the L . braziliensis parasites by becoming activated and undergoing apoptosis . We suggest that this outcome modifies the local environment at the site of parasite inoculation and thus contributes with parasite killing in the infected host .
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a major economic disease of livestock worldwide . Despite an intensive , and costly , control program in the United Kingdom , bTB continues to persist . Vaccination can provide some protection to cattle , but is currently illegal within the European Union due to the interaction of BCG with the action of the tuberculin skin test . The EU has signaled that changes in legislation will require field validation of BCG as a supplement to existing controls . A particular concern is that the imperfect sensitivity of prospective DIVA tests for vaccinates may increase the chances of infection being missed within herds . However , we demonstrate that high DIVA specificity will also be essential in order for farmers to see a protective herd level benefit of vaccination in terms of the frequency of tests they are subjected to and number of animals condemned . Field validation of the DIVA test will be an essential prerequisite to use of BCG in the field . Our estimated target specificity provides an important criterion for validation of prospective DIVA tests before deployment in the field .
Trichuris trichiura is a human parasitic whipworm infecting around 500 million people globally and having major consequences on the physical growth and educational performance of those infected . Current drug treatment options are limited and lack efficacy against the worm . Critically , they lack the effectiveness that would allow for a practical program for eradication of this parasite . It is therefore important to develop new treatments for trichuriasis . We screened for molecules that could paralyse the adult of a closely related mouse parasite , and identified a class of compounds , the dihydrobenzoxazepinones , not previously implicated as anthelmintics . Importantly , our compounds are active against the parasite but show only low toxicity against mouse cells , demonstrating selectivity for the parasite . Dihydrobenzoxazepinones could be developed as potential pharmaceutical treatments for trichuriasis . Since developing and deploying new drugs for neglected diseases by mass administration is challenging , we also explored whether the compounds could potentially be used to interrupt the Trichuris lifecycle by acting on eggs . Our dihydrobenzoxazepinone compounds reduced the ability of T . muris eggs to establish infection in their mouse host . This supports an environmental spray strategy for the control of Trichuris targeting their eggs in environmental hotspots such as latrines .
Proteins are key components of cellular machinery , and most cellular functions are executed by groups of proteins acting in concert . The study of networks formed by protein interactions can help reveal how the complex functionality of cells emerges from simple biochemistry . Certain proteins have a particularly large number of interaction partners; some have argued that these “hubs” are essential to biological function . Previous work has suggested that such hubs can be classified into just two varieties: party hubs , which coordinate a specific cellular process or protein complex; and date hubs , which link together and convey information between different function-specific modules or complexes . In this study , we re-examine the ideas of date and party hubs from multiple perspectives . By computationally partitioning protein interaction networks into functionally coherent subnetworks , we show that the roles of hubs are more diverse than a binary classification allows . We also show that the position of an interaction in the network is related to the functional similarity of the two interacting proteins: the most important interactions holding the network together appear to be between the most dissimilar proteins . Thus , examining interaction roles may be relevant to understanding the organisation of protein interaction networks .
The increasing availability of genetic sequence data has sparked an interest in using pathogen whole genome sequences to reconstruct the history of individual transmission events in an infectious disease outbreak . However , such methodologies rely on pathogen genomes mutating rapidly enough to discriminate between infected individuals , an assumption that remains to be investigated . To determine pathogen outbreaks for which genetic data is expected to be informative of transmission events , we introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergence’ , defined as the number of mutations separating pathogen genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs . We characterise transmission divergence of ten major outbreak causing pathogens using simulations and find significant variation between diseases , with viral outbreaks generally exhibiting higher transmission divergence than bacterial ones . We reconstruct these outbreaks using the R-packages outbreaker and phybreak and find that genetic sequence data , though useful for rapidly evolving pathogens , provides little to no information about outbreaks with low transmission divergence , such as Streptococcus pneumoniae and Shigella sonnei . Our results demonstrate the need to incorporate other sources of outbreak data , such as contact tracing data and spatial location data , into outbreak reconstruction tools .
X inactivation is a female-specific phenomenon that occurs during early development and results in the silencing of one X chromosome in female mammals . However , some genes escape inactivation and remain expressed from both X chromosomes . To date , the identity of escape genes and the molecular mechanisms of this process are still being explored . Here , we use a new binomial model combined with a mouse system with identifiable alleles and skewed X inactivation to identify and further define the chromatin landscape of escape genes in vivo . We find that some escape genes are common to multiple tissues while others are tissue-specific . We also show that expression levels of alleles on the inactive X correlate with factors associated with open chromatin such as RNA Polymerase II and DNase I hypersensitive sites . Additionally , escape genes co-localized with CTCF binding clusters on the Xi , suggesting a role for CTCF binding in delineating regions of escape and inactivation . Our findings represent the first comprehensive analysis of escape in vivo . Identification of tissue-specific escape genes could lead to a better understanding of the underlying causes of sex-linked disorders such as X-linked intellectual disability and Turner syndrome .
Plasmodium vivax affects hundreds of millions each year and results in severe morbidity and mortality . Plasmodial cysteine proteases ( CPs ) play crucial roles during the progression of malaria since inhibition of these molecules impairs parasite growth . These CPs might be targeted for new antimalarial drugs . We characterized a novel P . vivax CP , vivapain-4 ( VX-4 ) , which appeared to evolve differentially among primate Plasmodium species . VX-4 showed highly unique substrate preference depending on surrounding micro-environmental pH . It effectively hydrolyzed benzyloxycarbonyl-Leu-Arg-4-methyl-coumaryl-7-amide ( Z-Leu-Arg-MCA ) and Z-Phe-Arg-MCA at acidic pH and Z-Arg-Arg-MCA at neutral pH . Three amino acids ( Ala90 , Gly157 and Glu180 ) that delineate the S2 pocket were found to be substituted in VX-4 . Alteration of Glu180 abolished hydrolytic activity against Z-Arg-Arg-MCA at neutral pH , indicating Glu180 is intimately involved in the pH-dependent substrate preference . VX-4 hydrolyzed actin at neutral pH and hemoglobin at acidic pH , and participated in plasmepsin 4 activation at neutral/acidic pH . VX-4 was localized in the food vacuoles and cytoplasm of the erythrocytic stage of P . vivax . The differential substrate preferences depending on pH suggested a highly efficient mechanism to enlarge biological implications of VX-4 , including hemoglobin degradation , maturation of plasmepsin , and remodeling of the parasite architecture during growth and development of P . vivax .
Acetogens are renowned for their potential biotechnological applications . The model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii has been studied intensively for its ability to produce biofuels from sustainable resources , like syngas . We describe a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and gene expression ( ME-model ) to gain insights into this model acetogen . This first ME-model for a Gram-positive bacterium contains all major metabolic and biosynthetic pathways and calculates accurate proteome allocations under diverse growth conditions , thereby significantly broadening the scope of predictability of metabolic models . Furthermore , the ME-model enables rational medium design for improved production . Our experimental validation implies wide applicability to others strains for rapid improvement of yield and titer in biotechnology-relevant applications .
The transcriptome of any given cell type is a complex program of controlled gene expression underlying its biological function . An additional layer of molecular complexity involving individual genetic variation can modulate the transcriptome within the same tissue type , conferring potential phenotypic differences between individuals at the cellular level . This study highlights common and unique aspects of the transcriptome between the well-characterized lymphoblastoid cell lines from the International HapMap Project and those of a cultured primary cell type , human osteoblasts . We observe that inter-individual genetic variation can regulate transcript isoform expression in tissue-specific and tissue-independent manners , indicating that genetic differences among individuals can alter the transcriptome in one or more tissues , ultimately leading to altered biological functions within the lymphoblasts and/or osteoblasts . Pursuant to this , genome wide association studies on bone mineral density ( BMD ) have identified a number of significant loci and polymorphisms highly linked to the BMD quantitative phenotype . A small proportion of these polymorphisms overlap with our highly significant SNPs regulating the osteoblast transcriptome , revealing a potential molecular basis for this phenotype at the transcriptional level . This study highlights the importance of examining the differing transcriptomes and cis-regulatory mechanisms governing the biological and functional roles of varied tissue types .
Fermentation of the wort sugar maltotriose is critical for the flavor profile obtained during beer brewing . The recently discovered yeast Saccharomyces eubayanus is gaining popularity as an alternative to S . pastorianus and S . cerevisiae for brewing , however it is unable to utilize maltotriose . Here , a combination of non-GMO mutagenesis and laboratory evolution of the S . eubayanus type strain CBS 12357T was used to enable maltotriose fermentation and improve brewing performance . The improved strain expressed a novel transporter gene , SeMALT413 , which was formed by recombination between three different SeMALT maltose-transporter genes . Overexpression of SeMALT413 in CBS 12357T confirmed its neofunctionalization as a maltotriose transporter . As the S . pastorianus maltotriose transporter SpMty1 has a mosaic structure similar to SeMalT413 , maltotriose utilization likely involved similar recombination events during the domestication of current lager brewing strains . Based on a posteriori sequence analysis , the emergence of gene functions has been attributed to gene neofunctionalization in a broad range of organisms . The real-time observation of neofunctionalization during laboratory evolution constitutes an important validation of the relevance and importance of this mechanism for Darwinian evolution .
In epidemiology , investigators usually rely on surveillance data to assess the impact of an influenza virus on human health . However , accurate assessment of the influenza mortality burden at the early stage of influenza infection is rather challenging because the early influenza surveillance data are very limited and prone to bias as well . This speaks to an urgent need for the development of a more effective method for rapid and accurate estimation of influenza mortality burden . By proposing a novel host-virus interaction model , we have established a quantitative relationship between the antigenic variation of human influenza virus and its mortality burden . Based on this relationship , we further develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A ( H1N1 ) strains . We believe that our work will help develop a timely and sensible influenza preparedness programme that balances the gains of public health with the social and economic costs .
Asian soybean rust is a disease caused by the rust fungus , Phakopsora pachyrhizi , which was first described in Japan in 1902 and eventually reached North and South America in the early 2000s . Like other rust fungi , P . pachyrhizi , is capable of causing disease epidemics that severely reduce crop yields . Rust fungi require living host tissue in order to complete their life cycles , and thus , we expect that they produce and secrete effector proteins that are transferred into plant cells to interfere with immune responses . Small proteins that are rich in the amino acid cysteine and predicted to be secreted have been proposed to be likely candidates for effector proteins . Here , we report that a secreted , small cysteine-rich protein from P . pachyrhizi suppresses plant immunity , and furthermore , it interacts with a soybean transcription factor protein . Interestingly , silencing of this transcription factor results in plants that have increased expression of defense marker genes and enhanced disease resistance , which demonstrates that it is a negative regulator of soybean immune responses . Our work shows that , indeed , a small cysteine-rich protein from a rust fungus can suppress plant immunity , and furthermore , it identifies a new function for SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING-LIKE ( SPL ) transcription factors as components of the defense regulatory networks that holds immune responses in check .
Chlamydia trachomatis are major human pathogens causing ocular and sexually transmitted diseases with hundreds of millions of cases per year . Chlamydia replicate inside the host cell in a membrane bound vacuole called inclusion . The current concept on how Chlamydia communicates with the host cell during its replication is based on the identification of the host protein that interacts with Chlamydia . Here , we describe that C . trachomatis-serovar L2 and D use EphA2 , a member of the largest class of human receptor tyrosine kinases , as an adherence and entry receptor that is endocytosed together with the bacteria . Cell surface EphA2 receptor is adopted by Chlamydia to function also at the inclusion to support growth and replication and to keep the infected cell in an apoptosis resistant state . Thus , we show that EphA2 is an undiscovered important surface and intracellular signaling receptor that is crucial for chlamydial infection and development .
Most neurons present cellular tree-like extensions known as dendrites , which receive input signals from synapses with other cells . Some neurons have very large and impressive dendritic arbors . What is the function of such elaborate and costly structures ? The functional role of dendrites is not obvious because , if dendrites were an electrical passive medium , then signals from their periphery could not influence the neuron output activity . Dendrites , however , are not passive , but rather active media that amplify and support pulses ( dendritic spikes ) . These voltage pulses do not simply add but can also annihilate each other when they collide . To understand the net effect of the complex interactions among dendritic spikes under massive synaptic input , here we examine a computational model of excitable dendritic trees . We show that , in contrast to passive trees , they have a very large dynamic range , which implies a greater capacity of the neuron to distinguish among the widely different intensities of input which it receives . Our results provide an explanation to the concentration invariance property observed in olfactory processing , due to the very similar response to different inputs . In addition , our modeling approach also suggests a microscopic neural basis for the century old psychophysical laws .
A wide variety of methods for the reverse engineering of regulatory networks and the identification of quantitative regulation functions are available . We investigate some common assumptions that are made in the application of these methods to time-series transcriptomics data , in the context of a central module in the motility network of E . coli . We show that these assumptions , which hypothesize that mRNA concentrations are good proxies for protein concentrations and that the gene expression machinery is equally active across different physiological conditions , are often not valid and may lead to biased inference results . We also show how models of gene expression can be used in combination with suitable experimental controls to correct for this bias and improve the inference process . The contribution of our work is thus not the addition of another method to the rich store of available reverse engineering algorithms , but lies in the critical examination of the information provided by the experimental data and new ways to exploit this information in the algorithms . The proposed approach is relevant for a wide range of applications using time-series transcriptomics data . For the motility system under study , it has underlined the importance of global physiological effects , the active degradation of the transcription factor FliA as well as the secretion of the anti-sigma factor FlgM for the network dynamics .
In Panama , hantavirus pulmonary syndrome ( HPS ) is due to infection with the Choclo virus , which is transmitted by the rice rat ( Oligoryzomys fulvescens ) . Hantavirus infection is endemic in rural , Central-West Panama , an area characterized by a very dynamic combination of subsistence and industrial agriculture . This region contains one of the highest hantavirus antibody prevalence ( 16–62% ) in humans on the continent , but with low mortality ( 17% ) in the affected population . People become infected in and around the household area . Evidence points to the increase in and dynamic nature of agricultural activity in this region as the primary causes of increased hantavirus infection in humans in Panama . This study was conducted on a high spatio-temporal resolution that better captures how rapidly the abundances of reservoir populations shift—altering this aspect of zoonotic spillover of pathogens . Practically , the results demonstrate an important challenge in monitoring or predicting zoonotic disease outbreaks at the level of reservoir populations . These populations are subject to fluctuations over time ( both within and among years ) . The populations themselves are geographically restricted , even within their broader range . Suitable habitats for rodents may change but are poorly understood . Our results are valuable to understand hantavirus dynamics in Panama and the many other countries from North to South America in which hantaviruses are endemic in host populations .
The molecular evolution of any organism is described by changes in the genotype resulting from genetic drift or selection to maintain or establish fitness under the given environmental conditions . Identification of phenotype-defining changes and their distinction from ( near- ) neutral ( ‘hitchhikers’ ) ones is a fundamental challenge in genome research . The standard approach involves time- and cost-intensive mutation experiments , which are typically low throughput , due to their experimental nature . We have developed a computational method for the inference of phenotypic impact of genotypic changes that is applicable to any system , within or across species , where homologous genetic sequences and associated pairwise phenotype distances are available . We demonstrate the accuracy of our method by application to the human influenza A ( H3N2 ) virus . This exemplary system is of particular interest , as recognizing changes in the antigenic phenotype and a viral strains' capability to evade pre-existing host immunity is important for the production of efficient vaccines . We accurately identified known sites and amino acid changes with antigenic impact over 35 years of evolution , and provide further details on individual antigenically relevant changes in the evolution of influenza A ( H3N2 ) viruses .
Certain human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the etiological cause of cervical cancers and other epithelial tumors . Recent advances in the development of anti-HPV vaccines and their increasing deployment provide hope for a significant decrease of these cancers in the future . However , many details of the transmission of HPV between infected and uninfected individuals are still not well understood . In particular , the multistep process of entry into host cells is only partially characterized . Here , we used a systematic RNAi silencing approach to identify host cell proteins required during HPV16 infection , the most prevalent cancer-causing HPV . Our results indicated that HPV entry requires cells to divide . Cell division is important , since it removes the barrier between the nucleoplasm and the cytosol , so that the virus can access the nucleus for transcription and replication . Our study provides new mechanistic insights into the entry process of an important pathogen , and explains why it can only infect the stem cells or transiently amplifying cells of human skin or mucosa . This work also highlights a novel nuclear import strategy for DNA viruses , which typically use the nuclear import machinery to access the nucleoplasm for infection , Thus , HPV entry displays another unique aspect uncommon to most other viruses .
Black Sigatoka or black leaf streak disease , caused by the ascomycete fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis , inflicts huge costs on banana producers , due to crop losses and expenses for disease control . The global banana export trade relies on Cavendish clones that are highly susceptible to P . fijiensis . Sustainable production of the world’s number one fruit requires a better understanding of host resistance and sophisticated management of fungicide resistance in the pathogen . In the P . fijiensis genome sequence we identified an effector that induced an HR-like necrosis on a resistant banana accession but not on a susceptible cultivar . If validated , this assay may be useful for identifying resistance in banana breeding programs . We also used the genomic sequence to develop highly polymorphic molecular markers for analyzing P . fijiensis field populations and identified a strong enrichment ( nearly 100% ) for fungicide resistance markers in fungicide-treated banana plantations compared to untreated wild-type populations . This rapid evolution of fungicide resistance poses an immediate threat to sustainable banana production .
Recent experimental studies showed that the evolution of transcription factor binding sites ( TFBS ) is highly dynamic , with sites differing a great deal even between closely related mammalian species . Despite the substantial experimental evidence for rapid divergence of regulatory protein-binding events across species , computational methods designed to analyze regulatory elements evolution have focused primarily on phylogenetic footprinting approaches , in which putative functional regulatory elements are identified according to strong sequence conservation . Cross-species comparisons of non-coding sequences are limited in their ability to fully understand the evolution of regulatory sequences , particularly in cases where the elements are selected for novelty or species-specific . We have developed a novel framework to reconstruct the history of lineage-specific TFBS and showed that large amount of TFBS in human were born after human-mouse divergence . These elements also have distinct biological implications as compared to more ancient ones . This method can help understand the roles of lineage-specific TFBS in shaping gene regulation across different species .
Light is the principal signal used by animals to synchronize their circadian clocks with the day/night environment . Central to this vital property is the ability of light to trigger changes in gene expression . However , we still lack a complete understanding of how this occurs . The zebrafish is particularly interesting in this regard since direct light exposure induces the expression of clock genes in most of its tissues and in turn adjusts the phase of the intrinsic clocks . Here , by studying the promoter of one key light-regulated zebrafish clock gene , per2 , we have identified a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) that is necessary and sufficient for light controlled expression . Interestingly , the LRM is also highly conserved in the per2 genes of other vertebrates that lack widespread light-sensing tissues . In addition , the human LRM can substitute for its zebrafish counterpart to confer direct light regulation of gene expression in zebrafish cells . The LRM contains E- and D-box enhancers critical for its function . While the E-box is a target of clock regulation , the D-box directs light driven expression . We show that the expression of the D-box binding transcription factor , tef , is itself induced by light and is essential for normal light-induced per2 expression . These results advance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying entrainment by light and how light-regulated clock gene expression has evolved in vertebrates .
Parasites causing malaria are transmitted by mosquitoes and need to migrate to cross tissue barriers . The form of the parasite transmitted by the mosquito , the so-called sporozoite , needs motility to enter the salivary glands , to migrate within the skin and to enter into blood capillaries and eventually hepatocytes , where the parasites differentiate into thousands of merozoites that invade red blood cells . Sporozoite motility is based on an actin-myosin motor , as is the case in many other eukaryotic cells . However , most eukaryotic cells move much slower than sporozoites . How these parasites reach their high speed is not clear but current evidence suggests that actin filaments need to be organized by either actin-binding proteins or membrane proteins that link the filaments to an extracellular substrate . The present study explores the role of the actin filament-binding protein coronin in the motility of sporozoites of the rodent model parasite Plasmodium berghei . We found that the deletion of P . berghei coronin leads to defects in parasite motility and thus lower infection of mosquito salivary glands , which translates into less efficient transmission of the parasites . Our experiments suggest that coronin organizes actin filaments to achieve rapid and directional motility . We also identify two signaling pathways that converge to regulate actin filament dynamics and suggest that they play a role in switching the parasite from its motility mode to a cell invasion mode .
Leishmania parasites are a significant threat , causing some 0 . 9–1 . 6 million new infections and 20 , 000 deaths annually . Amphotericin B is gaining importance in control of leishmaniasis , as other treatment options are increasingly compromised by emergent drug resistance . We sought to identify mechanisms by which resistance to amphotericin B could emerge through experimental selection and characterisation of four novel resistant L . mexicana lines . Whilst in all cases , sterol metabolism was dramatically affected , in three lines specific sterol changes resulted from decreased expression of the sterol biosynthesis enzyme sterol C24-methyltransferase ( SMT ) . We found that this resulted from structural variation events at the genome level , resulting in specific loss of the more highly expressed SMT gene copy . These events appear to arise due to repetitive sequence elements in the genomic region , suggesting that SMT could be particularly prone to loss of expression in this manner . Moreover , in at least one line , we found that disruption of SMT function was not associated with any loss of fitness . These findings are significant in demonstrating that an apparently common mechanism of resistance-associated mutation does not compromise parasite virulence , thus representing a possible route to emergent resistance in the clinical setting .
The human brain is theorised to operate like a sophisticated hypothesis tester , using past experience to generate a model of the external world , testing predictions of this model against incoming sensory evidence , and generating a ‘prediction error’ signal that updates the model when predictions and sensory evidence do not match . In addition to predicting the content of sensory signals , an optimal system should also predict the reliability ( or ‘precision’ ) of those signals to minimise the influence of unreliable sensory information . It has been proposed that attention optimises this process by boosting prediction error signals , which are coded as the difference ( or ‘mismatch’ ) between predicted and observed stimulus features . Accordingly , this theory predicts that attention should increase the selectivity for mismatch information in the neural response to surprising stimuli . We tested this hypothesis in human participants by training a decoding algorithm to identify ‘mismatch information’ in the brain , recorded by electroencephalography ( EEG ) , following the presentation of surprising stimuli that were either attended or ignored . We found that attention did indeed increase the selectivity for mismatch information in the neural response , supporting the notion that attention and prediction are intricately related processes .
The sub-species of Trypanosoma brucei are important pathogens of humans and animals in sub-Saharan Africa . T . b . brucei is not able to infect humans due to sensitivity to trypanosome lytic factors ( TLF ) containing the lytic protein apolipoprotein L1 ( APOL1 ) . T . b . gambiense is the most prevalent human infective sub-species , although there are two distinct sub-groups of T . b . gambiense that differ genetically and in terms of their human serum resistance phenotype stability . How they resist lysis by TLF is unknown . Previous data indicates that some group 1 T . b . gambiense parasites are able to avoid lysis due in part to reduced expression and activity of the gene encoding a TLF receptor ( HpHbR ) . The authors showed that despite group 1 T . b gambiense displaying avoidance of some TLF particles , this sub-species group is resistant to the lytic protein of TLF , APOL1 . This suggests that avoidance is not the complete story in this sub-species , as previously theorised . Group 2 T . b . gambiense is also innately resistant to APOL1 and there is no evidence of avoidance of TLF in resistant parasites . Group 2 T . b . gambiense variably displays the human serum resistance phenotype that does not appear to correlate with expression of HbHpR .
Despite the potency of highly active antiretroviral therapy ( HAART ) to decrease the HIV-1 load and to reduce mortality due to HIV-1 infection , HIV-1 establishes latent infection resistant to host immune responses and antiretroviral therapy . HIV-1 latency is thus the main obstacle to the eradication of the virus from infected patients . CpG methylation is a mechanism which contributes to transcriptional silencing . The role of proviral DNA methylation in HIV-1 latency has not been clearly demonstrated and has never been studied in HIV-1-infected patients . We found in an in vitro model and in HIV-1-infected patients that CpG methylation of the HIV-1 promoter is important for the maintenance but not for the establishment of HIV-1 latency . We show that tight control of HIV-1 latency by CpG methylation could be a key barrier to purging the reservoir of latently infected cells in infected individuals . Although our study shows the difficulty in reactivation of HIV-1 with the heavily methylated promoter/enhancer sequences from latently infected cells , it also indicates that addition of some histone deacetylase inhibitors ( namely suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid , SAHA ) and cytosine methylation inhibitors would represent an important part of HAART protocols in the future .
One of the principal challenges in current biology is to understand the relationship between genetic and phenotypic variation . The increasing availability of genomic variation maps of human as well as of model organism populations ( mouse and Arabidopsis ) constitutes an important step towards meeting this challenge . However , despite its excellent track record as a premier model to understand genome function , no genome-wide variation data beyond single-nucleotide variants and microsatellites are currently available for D . melanogaster . Here , we present a comprehensive , nucleotide-resolution catalogue of variants of various types ( single-nucleotide , multi-nucleotide , and structural variants ) for 39 wild-derived inbred D . melanogaster lines based on high-throughput sequencing . This catalogue confirms that non–SNP variants account for more than half of genomic variation , allowing us to provide new insights into the non-random distribution of variants in the Drosophila genome . We further present genome-wide cis-associations with gene expression based on whole adult fly microarray data , revealing significant associations for about 2 , 000 genes . Most associations are sex-specific , providing evidence for a decoupling of the genomic , regulatory architecture between males and females .
The rectified surface EMG signal is commonly used to analyze the neural activation of muscles . However , since this signal is most often exposed to so-called amplitude cancellation ( loss of EMG amplitude due to overlap of positive and negative phases of different motor unit action potentials ) , the frequency content of the rectified EMG may not fully reflect that of the neural drive to the muscle . In this study we prove this notion analytically and demonstrate , using simulations , that the rectified EMG signal accurately reflects the neural drive to the muscle only in a limited set of conditions . Specifically , these conditions include low contraction levels and/or high variability of the neural drive . In other conditions , the rectified EMG signal from a muscle is a poor predictor of its neural input . This finding has potentially large implications for the way neural drive to muscles and neural connectivity ( e . g . across muscles or between the brain and a muscle ) should be analyzed .
The phytohormone auxin , which is synthesized mainly through TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 ( TAA1 ) and YUCCA ( YUC ) flavin monooxygenase-like proteins , has an important role in the inhibition of root growth induced by aluminium ( Al ) stress . TAA1 was recently shown to be locally induced in the root-apex transition-zone thus involves in aluminium-induced Arabidopsis root growth inhibition . Here , we report that YUCCA ( YUC ) regulates local auxin biosynthesis in the root apex transition zone ( TZ ) and controls root growth in response to Al stress . Furthermore , EIN3 and PIF4 were found to transcriptionally regulate Al-induced YUCCA expression and thus involve in Al-induced auxin accumulation in root TZ and root growth inhibition in Arabidopsis thaliana
Natural killer ( NK ) cells recognize and kill infected cells without prior antigenic stimulation , and thus provide an important early defense against virus infection . NK cell responses in primates are regulated in part through interactions between two highly polymorphic molecules , the killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( KIRs ) on NK cells and their major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I ligands on target cells . Inhibitory KIRs normally suppress NK cell responses through interactions with their MHC class I ligands on the surface of healthy cells . However , when these interactions are perturbed , this inhibition is lost resulting in NK cell activation and killing of the target cell . We investigated the functional implications of simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) peptides bound by a common MHC class I molecule in the rhesus macaque that stabilize or disrupt binding to an inhibitory KIR . Whereas SIV peptides that stabilized KIR-MHC class I binding suppressed NK cell activation , peptides that disrupted this interaction did not and resulted in NK cell lysis . These findings demonstrate that viral peptides can modulate NK cell responses through KIR-MHC class I interactions , and are consistent with the possibility that human and simian immunodeficiency viruses may acquire changes in epitopes that increase the binding of MHC class I ligands to inhibitory KIRs as a mechanism to suppress NK cell responses .
Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) inhabits diverse niches in the host . The ability to adapt to new microenvironments is consistent with the predominance of NTHI as a causative agent of otitis media ( OM ) in children . We evaluated the microevolution of NTHI associated with adaptation and persistence in response to nutrient limitation . We identified a naturally occurring mutation that enhances NTHI persistence and formation of intracellular bacterial communities ( IBCs ) in a pre-clinical model of OM . The presence of IBCs during OM provides the first opportunity to evaluate the role of intracellular populations in chronicity and quiescence as a new paradigm for recurrent OM . This model provides a new platform to identify novel therapeutics for this highly prevalent and costly infectious disease .
Iron is an essential nutrient for many bacterial pathogens . A sufficient availability is linked to bacterial proliferation and pathogenicity . The host requires iron for cellular functions including innate immune defense mechanisms . Consequently , the control over iron homeostasis plays an important role in the course of infection . Burkholderia pseudomallei is an environmental bacterium ubiquitous in soil and water surfaces causing the disease melioidosis with a wide range of signs and symptoms including localized , pulmonary , or bloodstream infections . Conditions with increased iron stores , such as thalassemia , are considered to increase the risk to acquire melioidosis . Here we show that infection with the pathogen triggers downregulation of the major cellular iron exporter inducing intracellular iron retention and stimulation of bacterial proliferation . Experimental iron overload appears to predispose to infection with B . pseudomallei , whereas iron deficiency confers relative resistance to melioidosis . These effects of changed iron metabolism on the course of infection may be ascribed to modifications in the host immune response and direct effects on bacterial growth , respectively . Thus , the B . pseudomallei-driven alteration of cellular iron traffic leading to increased iron availability can promote its intracellular growth , and treatment with iron chelators together with antibiotics might be an appropriate strategy to control infection .
Proteins are flexible nanomachines that frequently accomplish their biological function by collective atomic motions . Such motions may be characterized by hinge , shear , or rotational motions of entire protein domains , loop movements , or subtle rearrangements of amino acid side chains . In many cases it is far from obvious how collective motions are related to a particular biological task . Therefore , we propose a novel technique termed “functional mode analysis” that , based on an ensemble of structures , aims to detect a collective motion that is directly related to a particular protein function . From the given set of protein structures , together with a “functional quantity” , the technique seeks the collective motion that is maximally correlated to the functional quantity . The chosen functional quantity can be quite general; typical examples could include the openness of a channel , active site geometry , or cleft solvent accessibility . Because the proposed framework is highly general , we expect the approach to be useful to a wide range of applications . To illustrate the new technique , we apply functional mode analysis to molecular dynamics trajectories of a polyalanine-helix , bacteriophage T4 lysozyme , Trp-cage , and Leucine-binding protein .
The existence of conventional spliceosomal introns in genes of eukaryotic organisms is a well-known theorem . However , genes of the unicellular algae group , euglenids , contain also another type of introns , so-called nonconventional ones . They lack canonical borders , a feature most characteristic for conventional introns and form a stable secondary structure bringing together their ends . Along with the increasing popularity of whole genome studies , nonconventional introns were also disclosed in the genes of other protists , diplonemids . In this study we were particularly interested which introns–conventional or nonconventional–are removed earlier from euglenids’ pre-mRNA . To track this process we analyzed transcripts of the two Euglena gracilis genes . The relative order of intron excision was compared for pairs of introns belonging to different types . We also surveyed thousands of intermediate products of splicing using the Next-Generation Sequencing system . Summarizing the results of both experiments , we proved that spliceosomal introns are removed at an earlier stage of pre-mRNA maturation than nonconventional ones .
Coxsackievirus B ( CVB ) is a significant human pathogen , causing myocarditis , aseptic meningitis and encephalitis . The lasting consequences of juvenile CVB infection on the developing host have yet to be adequately inspected . Here , we show that CVB efficiently infected juvenile cardiac progenitor cells both in culture and the young heart . Furthermore , we describe a mouse model of juvenile infection with a subclinical dose of CVB which showed no symptoms of disease into adulthood . However following physiological or pharmacologically-induced cardiac stress , juvenile-infected mice underwent cardiac hypertrophy and dilation indicative of progression to heart failure . These results suggest that mild CVB infection in the young host may impair the ability of the heart to adapt to increased load leading to pathological remodeling later in adult life .
Inflammasome activation is important for host defence against bacterial infection . Many gram-negative pathogens use secretion systems to inject bacterial proteins such as flagellin or structural components of the secretion machinery itself into the host cytosol leading to caspase-1 activation and pyroptotic cell death . However , little is known about the B . pseudomallei factors that trigger caspase-1 activation as well as downstream signalling pathways and effector mechanisms of caspase-1 . Here , we identified the B . pseudomallei T3SS3 inner rod protein BsaK as an early activator of caspase-1-dependent cell death and IL-1β secretion in primary macrophages and as a virulence factor in murine melioidosis . We could show that upon infection of macrophages , caspase-7 is activated downstream of the NLRC4/caspase-1 inflammasome and requires caspase-9 processing . Although caspase-7 was essential for cleavage of the DNA damage sensor PARP during pyroptosis , it did neither contribute to cytokine production nor B . pseudomallei growth restriction by promoting early macrophage death . In addition to a rapid NLRC4/caspase-1- dependent induction of pyroptosis in wild-type macrophages , we observed a delayed activation of classical apoptosis in macrophages lacking caspase-1/11 . Thus , initiation of different cell death pathways seems to be an effective strategy to limit intracellular B . pseudomallei infection .
After landing on the stigma , pollen grains germinate and create pollen tubes following adhesion and hydration processes , during which pollen–stigma interactions determine whether the pollen grains can germinate on the stigma . In recent years , the interaction mechanisms between the pollen and stigma have been studied extensively at the cellular and molecular level in self-incompatibility systems . However , few studies have focused on pollen–stigma interactions during self-compatible pollination . Arabidopsis thaliana provides an excellent system to study the interaction mechanisms between the pollen and stigma during self-compatible pollination . KINβγ is a plant-specific subunit of the SNF1-related protein kinase 1 complex . In this study , we identified an Arabidopsis kinβγ mutant showing defective pollen germination on the surface of the stigma but not on the culture medium , which resulted from the compromised hydration of pollen on the stigma . Further analysis revealed that the biogenesis of mitochondria and peroxisomes was impaired in this mutant , which reduced the levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in pollen . Application of H2O2 recovered the capability of pollen to undergo hydration in vitro . These results suggest that ROS signaling is involved in the regulation of pollen–stigma interactions during pollination . This study provides new insights into the mechanism underlying pollen–stigma interactions in self-compatible plant species .
RNase III–related enzymes play key roles in cleaving double-stranded RNA throughout biology . Some of the best-known enzymes are RNase III itself , involved in ribosomal RNA maturation and mRNA turnover in bacteria , and Drosha and Dicer , which catalyze the maturation of micro ( mi ) –RNAs and small interfering ( si ) –RNAs in eukaryotes . Although RNase III has important cellular functions in bacteria , its gene is generally not essential , with the remarkable exception of that of Bacillus subtilis . In this paper , we show that the essential role of RNase III in this organism is to protect it from the expression of toxin genes borne by two prophages , through antisense RNA . B . subtilis is thus one of a growing number of organisms that uses RNase III or its homologs as part of viral defense or viral accommodation mechanisms , in this case to the point where the presence of the enzyme is essential for cell survival .
Brugia malayi is a parasitic nematode and etiological agent of Lymphatic Filariasis ( LF ) , a mosquito-borne Neglected Tropical Disease affecting approximately 120 million people globally . Brugia and other parasitic nematodes have the ability to modulate host biology and evade the immune response but the mechanisms by which they do this are unclear . One possibility is via immunomodulatory proteins and small RNAs packaged and released in extracellular vesicles ( EV ) that target host cells . Here we show that all Brugia life stages relevant to human infection release EVs that are internalized by murine macrophages . These EVs contain immunomodulatory proteins and show sex-specific differences in cargo providing insight into how B . malayi establishes and maintains infection . Critically , we show ivermectin , a drug used to treat LF and related diseases affects EV release , which provides new insight into how these drugs work and identifies a new screening paradigm to help identify future anti-parasitic drugs .
Scabies , a parasitic infection , and impetigo , a superficial bacterial infection , are treatable skin conditions found most commonly in resource-limited settings . Scabies is strongly associated with impetigo . Complications of impetigo include sepsis and invasive infections , and post-infective complications such as acute post streptococcal glomerulonephritis and acute rheumatic fever . Good data on scabies and impetigo prevalence are lacking for most countries , but existing evidence suggests the Pacific region has among the highest prevalence of these conditions in the world . Our study aimed to establish the prevalence of scabies and impetigo in the Western Province of the Solomon Islands , a South Pacific nation made up of over 900 islands and over 500 , 000 inhabitants . We assessed over 1900 people of all ages , and found a very high burden of skin infections , with scabies affecting one in five people , and active impetigo in one in three . Infants and children were affected more than adults . Scabies infestation was strongly associated with impetigo , supporting the hypothesis that community control strategies for scabies may be successful in reducing the burden of impetigo and its sequelae .
In adult mice new neurons are produced in the hippocampus , where they are thought to influence learning , memory , and emotional regulation . The mechanisms and functions of this neurogenesis , however , remain unclear . Here we report that in different strains of mice , variation in cellular proliferation in the hippocampus ( an index of neurogenesis ) correlates with variation in the relative proportions of the ratio of CD4+ to CD8+ T cells ( an immunology phenotype ) . We also show that T cells can influence neurogenesis ( but that neurogenesis does not influence T cells ) by analyzing knockouts , depleting mice of T cells , and repopulating alymphoid animals . The strong genetic correlation between T cells and cellular proliferation in the hippocampus contrasts with the weak , often non-significant , correlation with behavioral phenotypes . Of significance , the findings here suggest that modulation of the functions of the hippocampus to influence behavior is not the primary role of neurogenesis .
Trypanosoma cruzi , a parasitic protozoan , is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease . Chagas disease is the most common cause of congestive heart failure related deaths among young adults in the endemic areas of South and Central America and Mexico . Vaccine development against Chagas disease has been dramatically limited because of extensive debate on the mechanisms involved in this pathology . It is now accepted that the presence of parasites in cardiac tissue is necessary to initiate and maintain the inflammatory responses and that therapeutic treatments or vaccines aimed at eliminating T . cruzi would limit or prevent the progression of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy . In the present study , we have tested the protective efficacy of a multi-component heterologous DNA-prime/protein-boost vaccine TcVac2 in a murine model of T . cruzi infection . Immunization of mice with TcVac2 induced potent antibody , CD8+ T cell and cytokine responses that provided protection from acute parasitemia and chronic parasite persistence and immunopathology in chagasic mice in comparison to unvaccinated mice .
An often touted utility of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) is that the resulting discoveries can facilitate implementation of personalized medicine , in which preventive and therapeutic interventions for complex diseases can be tailored to individual genetic profiles . However , recent studies using whole-genome SNP genotype data for disease risk assessment have generally failed to achieve satisfactory results , leading to a pessimistic view of the utility of genotype data for such purposes . Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches on a large ensemble of markers , which contain both confirmed and as yet unconfirmed disease susceptibility variants , may improve the performance of disease risk assessment . We tested an algorithm called Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) on three large-scale datasets for type 1 diabetes and demonstrated that risk assessment can be highly accurate for the disease . Our results suggest that individualized disease risk assessment using whole-genome data may be more successful for some diseases ( such as T1D ) than other diseases . However , the predictive accuracy will be dependent on the heritability of the disease under study , the proportion of the genetic risk that is known , and that the right set of markers and right algorithms are being used .
Following vaccination or resolution of viral infection , three distinct populations of virus-specific memory CD8+ T cells are generated . Central memory cells ( TCM ) circulate between blood and lymph nodes and are able to rapidly enter non-lymphoid tissues in response to infection or tissue injury . In contrast , effector memory ( TEM ) are largely restricted to the blood and tissue-resident memory cells ( TRM ) are primarily confined within non-lymphoid tissues . In this study , we set out to interrogate the functionality and lineage relationship of these memory populations following a secondary viral skin infection . Circulating memory CD8+ T cells rapidly infiltrated the skin following viral infection and used cytolysis to provide robust protective immunity . TCM , but not TEM , trafficked into the skin and differentiated into functional TRM following resolution of viral infection and this occurred independent of the ability of these cells to home into and survey peripheral lymph nodes . Altogether , our findings demonstrate that a defined lineage of circulating memory CD8+ T cells are the principle responders against viral skin infection and also the precursors to secondary TRM CD8+ T cells that then form , which are important considerations for understanding host defense mechanisms against recurring viral infections and tissue-specific vaccine development .
Following synthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and Golgi apparatus , neuronal proteins follow divergent trafficking pathways to the axonal and dendritic plasma membranes . This specialized trafficking depends on motor proteins that move along microtubules or actin in either a “plus-end” or “minus-end” direction . Although the molecular details of these pathways are poorly understood , recent work suggests that a plus-end-directed myosin motor guides proteins preferentially to dendrites . Here we find that Myosin VI , a minus-end-directed motor , plays a role in the concentration of proteins at the surface of the axon . Several studies have shown that many axonal proteins are targeted to both compartments initially , and are subsequently enriched on the axonal surface after they have been specifically removed from the surface of the dendrites by endocytosis . We show here that this dendrite-specific endocytosis is promoted by interaction with Myosin VI , whereas blocking Myosin VI function prevents axonal protein from being internalized from the surface of dendrites . Our results suggest a model where neuronal proteins are enriched on the surface of either axons or dendrites based on the properties of the myosin motor with which they interact .
Sex determination is a fundamental biological process that can be broadly divided into two major categories . In genetic sex determination ( GSD ) , sex-specific differentiation results from intrinsic genetic differences between males and females , whereas environmental sex determination ( ESD ) relies on environmental signals to induce male or female sex determination . In contrast to model organisms that utilize GSD system , environmental sex-determining organisms are poor genetic models . Therefore , although candidate genes involved in ESD have been found in vertebrates , their functions have remained largely unknown , impairing our understanding of ESD and making the comparison of sex-determining genes between both systems difficult . Here , we report the identification of a gene responsible for the production of males during environmental sex determination in the crustacean Daphnia . This gene is homologous to the Doublesex gene that is functionally conserved in animals that use GSD . Expression of Doublesex was increased primarily in male-specific structures . Gain- and loss-of-function analyses established that Daphnia Doublesex gene is a major effector that regulates the male phenotype in Daphnia . We infer that there is an ancient , previously unidentified link between genetic and environmental sex determination .
Approximately a half-billion people worldwide are infected with herpes simplex virus type 2 ( HSV-2 ) , the virus that causes genital herpes . In some individuals , infection results in painful , recurrent genital ulcers , while in others , the infection remains quiescent . In both settings , infected individuals may transmit virus to their intimate partners . Genital herpes increases the risk that an infected person will acquire HIV if exposed during sexual intercourse . A vaccine for the prevention of genital herpes is a high priority . We describe a vaccine that induces antibodies that block the ability of the virus to enter cells and that prevents the virus from escaping immune attack mediated by antibody and complement . The vaccine contains HSV-2 glycoproteins C , D and E and is immunogenic in non-human primates . The vaccine protects immunized non-human primates against a mild vaginal infection that develops in naïve animals after intravaginal inoculation of virus . Naïve guinea pigs develop severe genital disease , while immunized animals are almost 100% protected after intravaginal infection . The vaccine greatly reduces the number of days during the recurrent phase of infection that animals shed virus in genital secretions , thereby reducing the risk of transmission . We consider this novel vaccine a leading candidate for clinical trials aimed at preventing genital herpes infection in humans .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high throughput sequencing ( ChIP-Seq ) is widely used for studying in vivo protein-DNA interactions genome-wide . The applicability of this method for profiling repetitive regions of the genome is limited due to short read sizes dominating ChIP-seq applications . We present Perm-seq , which implements a novel generative model for mapping short reads to repetitive regions of genomes . Perm-seq introduces a new class of read alignment algorithms that can combine data from multiple sources . We show with both computational experiments and the analysis of large volumes of ENCODE ChIP-seq data that utilizing DNase-seq derived priors in Perm-seq is especially powerful in mapping protein-DNA interactions in segmental duplication regions . This general approach enables the use of any number of histone ChIP-seq data alone or together with DNase data to supervise read allocation . Our large scale analysis reveals that although the protein-DNA interactions sites are evolutionarily less conserved in repetitive regions , they share the overall sequence characteristics of the protein-DNA interactions in non-repetitive regions .
Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical parasitic worm infection that affects 218 million people worldwide , the majority of whom live in Africa . Studies have shown that women with schistosomiasis tend to have higher rates of HIV infection , but until now no study has followed people over time to determine whether schistosomiasis increases a person’s risk of becoming HIV-infected . In this ongoing community study in rural Tanzania , we identified 73 individuals who became HIV-infected during follow-up , and 265 control individuals who were similar in age , sex , and location but who remained HIV-uninfected during follow-up . We tested these individuals’ stored blood samples to determine whether they had schistosome infection before they became HIV-infected . We found that women who had schistosome infections had a 2 . 8-fold increased risk of becoming HIV-infected compared to women without schistosome infections . We found no evidence of increased HIV acquisition in men with schistosome infections . We also found that the concentration of HIV in the blood shortly after people became HIV-infected was higher in those who had schistosome infections than in those who did not have schistosome infections . Our study suggests that schistosomiasis may play a major role in HIV transmission and disease progression in African countries .
The ribosomal DNA encodes the RNAs needed to make ribosomes for protein synthesis and cellular proliferation . However , ribosomal DNA has been excluded from most mammalian genome-wide studies due to challenges associated with its analysis . We find that both the sequence and copy number of the ribosomal DNA can change in human cancer genomes . mTOR is a kinase that senses the nutritional environment and is often over-active in cancer . Given mutational evidence for mTOR activation in the human cancer genomes with loss of ribosomal DNA copies , we analyzed ribosomal DNA in hematopoietic stem cells derived from mice under conditions of mTOR activation . Like the human cancer genomes , the ribosomal DNA copy number contracts in mTOR activated hematopoietic stem cells relative to normal stem cells . Loss is associated with high rates of cellular proliferation , rRNA production , and protein synthesis , but compromised survival in the presence of DNA damage . Contractions are a recurrent feature in cancer genomes with overactive mTOR and may predict sensitivity to DNA damaging chemotherapeutics . Ribosomal DNA may be altered in other disease contexts .
Global patterns and mechanistic determinants of bacterial spread in mammalian organisms are difficult to obtain through numerical and topographical mapping of a single bacterial population . Appreciation of the true pathogenetic events during infections needs to be based on the understanding of the fine interactions that control the infection dynamics of individual subpopulations in the same host . We have used molecular techniques to tag individually otherwise identical subpopulations of bacteria . We have used these bacteria , called wild-type isogenic tagged strains ( WITS ) , in simultaneous infections in the same animal to gather insights into the patterns of spread of individual subpopulations of bacteria in the tissues and interactions between bacteria and phagocytes . Combining numerical fluctuation in the WITS populations with mathematical modelling and statistical analysis , we have gathered data on the relative occurrence of bacterial growth and death in different phases of the disease process . Our analyses support a model in which shortly after infection , concomitant death and rapid bacterial replication lead to the establishment of independent bacterial subpopulations in different organs . Later , decreased microbial mortality leads to an exponential increase in the number of bacteria that spread locally , with subsequent mixing of bacteria between organs . The work illustrates the importance of unravelling heterogeneous traits of infections to reconstruct and understand the true nature of the global disease process .
Humans and many other predators have two eyes that are set a short distance apart so that an extensive region of the world is seen simultaneously by both eyes from slightly different points of view . Although the images of the world are essentially two-dimensional , we vividly see the world as three-dimensional . This is true for static as well as dynamic images . Here we elaborate on how the visual system may establish 3D motion perception from local input in the left and right eye . Using tools from analytic geometry we show that existing 3D motion models offer no general solution to the inverse optics problem of 3D motion perception . We suggest a flexible framework of motion and depth processing and suggest default strategies for local 3D motion estimation . Our results on the aperture and inverse problem of 3D motion are likely to stimulate computational , behavioral , and neuroscientific studies because they address the fundamental issue of how 3D motion is represented in the visual system .
Bacteria utilize many defense strategies to protect themselves against external forces . One mechanism used by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the production of the long sugar polymer alginate . The bacteria use this polymer to form a biofilm – a barrier to protect against antibiotics and the host immune response . During its biosynthesis alginate undergoes a chemical modification whereby acetate is added to the polymer . Acetylation of alginate is important as this modification makes the bacterial biofilm less susceptible to recognition and clearance by the host immune system . In this paper we present the atomic structure of AlgJ; one of four proteins required for O-acetylation of the polymer . AlgJ is structurally similar to AlgX , which we have shown previously is also required for alginate acetylation . To understand why both enzymes are required for O-acetylation we functionally characterized the proteins and found that although AlgJ exhibits acetylesterase activity – catalyzing the removal of acetyl groups from a surrogate substrate – it does not bind to short mannuornic acid polymers . In contrast , AlgX bound alginate in a length-dependent manner and was capable of transfering acetate from a surrogate substrate onto alginate . This has allowed us to not only understand how acetate is added to alginate , but increases our understanding of how acetate is added to other bacterial sugar polymers .
Candida albicans causes fungal infections in the oral cavities and bloodstreams of patients with weakened immune function , such as AIDS or cancer patients . The immune system detects fungal infections , in part , by detecting the antigenic cell wall polysaccharide β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan . The ability to mask β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan from immune detection is a virulence factor of C . albicans and a range of fungal pathogens . If synthesis of the phospholipid phosphatidylserine is disrupted in C . albicans ( cho1Δ/Δ mutation ) , then cho1Δ/Δ exhibits significantly increased exposure of β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan to immune detection compared to wild-type . Intracellular signaling cascades that regulate cell wall synthesis are upregulated in the cho1Δ/Δ mutant . It was hypothesized that upregulation of these pathways might be responsible for unmasking in this mutant . Genetic approaches were used to activate these pathways independently of the cho1Δ/Δ mutation . It was discovered that activation of one pathway , Cdc42-Cek1 , leads to β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan exposure . Thus , this pathway can cause β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan exposure , and its upregulation may be the cause of unmasking in the cho1Δ/Δ mutant .
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and related dementias are a major public health challenge and present a therapeutic imperative for which we need additional insight into molecular pathogenesis . We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) , as well as an analysis of known genetic risk loci for AD dementia , using data from 4 , 914 brain autopsies . Genome-wide significance was observed for 7 genes and pathologic features of AD and related diseases . Twelve of the 22 genetic risk loci for clinically-defined AD dementia were confirmed in our pathologic sample . Correlation of effect sizes for risk of AD dementia with effect size for hallmark pathologic features of AD were strongly positive and linear . Our study discovered new genetic associations with specific pathologic features and aligned known genetic risk for AD dementia with specific pathologic changes in a large brain autopsy study of AD and related dementias .
The delicate equilibrium between the folded and functional structure of a protein and its unfolded state is highly dependent on environmental variables such as the solvent . For example the co-solvent urea is a well-known protein denaturant that displaces the equilibrium towards unstructured and non-functional conformations of proteins . However the molecular mechanism behind its ability remains an enigma and the interpretation of the experimental data is still ambiguous . By analyzing a set of representative proteins through extensive molecular dynamics simulations in urea , we provide a robust and consensus picture of the first stages of urea-driven protein unfolding and elucidate the role of urea in accelerating protein unfolding . Our results suggest that urea , thanks to its stickiness and slow diffusion , benefits from the intrinsic flexibility of proteins and stabilizes partially open-states , slowly driving the protein toward unfolding .
Dengue disease is caused by one of four serologically related , but antigenically distinct dengue virus serotypes ( DENV-1 , -2 , -3 or -4 ) . It is the most prevalent arthropod-borne viral disease , with a global distribution . Resource-poor countries are particularly vulnerable to transmission of dengue disease and it is present throughout the Americas . Colombia is one of the countries in the Americas most affected by epidemics of dengue disease , which is a significant public health concern . We conducted this systematic literature review to consolidate knowledge regarding the epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia using well-defined methods to search and identify relevant research , according to predetermined inclusion criteria . The findings reveal that despite vector control measures and constant improvement in diagnosis and clinical management of dengue disease cases by health services , there has been no success in the effective control of the disease . This systematic review identifies important epidemiological characteristics of dengue disease in Colombia , as well as identifying several avenues for future research .
Infectious diseases are often studied one by one , but people can have more than one infection at the same time . This is likely to happen when different microorganisms are linked to specific geographical regions or living conditions . In this paper , we summarise the literature about infections occurring together with tegumentary leishmaniasis ( TL ) , a disease of skin and mucosal tissues that is caused by Leishmania parasites . We found that in Latin America , patients with TL are often also infected with helminths or with Trypanosoma cruzi ( the parasite that causes Chagas disease ) . Information from other parts of the world is scarce . Animal studies and observations in humans show that one infection can change the course of another infection , but how this happens is not well understood . When different infections affect the same patient at the same time , the diagnosis can be difficult , especially when different microorganisms are biologically similar , when they cause similar lesions , or when they are present in the same lesions . Treatment can also be difficult because some coinfections reduce the efficacy of the treatment against Leishmania and because some drug combinations can lead to cumulative adverse effects .
Peptides from degraded cytoplasmic proteins are transported via TAP into the endoplasmic reticulum for loading onto MHC class I molecules . TAP is encoded by Tap1 and Tap2 , which in rodents are located close to the MHC class I genes . In the rat , genetic variation in Tap2 gives rise to two different transporters: a promiscuous A variant ( TAP-A ) and a more restrictive B variant ( TAP-B ) . It has been proposed that the class I molecule in the DA rat ( RT1-Aa ) has co-evolved with TAP-A and it has been shown that RT1-Aa antigenicity is changed when co-expressed with TAP-B . To study the contribution of different allelic combinations of RT1-A and Tap2 to the variation in MHC expression and T cell selection , we generated DA rats with either congenic or background alleles in the RT1-A and Tap2 loci . We found increased numbers of mature CD8SP cells in the thymus of rats which co-expressed RT1-Aa and TAP-B . This increase of CD8 cells could be explained by reduced negative selection , but did not correlate with RT1-Aa expression levels on thymic antigen presenting cells . Thus , our results identify a crucial role of the TAP and the quality of the MHC class I repertoire in regulating T cell selection .
Chagas disease , caused by the protozoa Trypanosoma cruzi , is endemic in most Latin American countries and it is considered a neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) . T . cruzi transmission is feasible in vector-free world regions . The main non-vectorial routes are congenital transmission , blood transfusion , and solid organ transplant . According to WHO , in Spain , which is the second country in the world receiving migrant population from endemic countries , there are up to 40 . 000 persons at risk of developing symptomatic Chagas disease . Since 2005 , serological screening for at-risk blood and solid organ donors is mandatory . Lately , some regulations regarding screening of pregnant women from Latin American endemic countries have also been implemented , but only in some autonomous regions . Up to date , there is no surveillance system in place . Thus , the Chagas disease burden remains unknown . In this paper we use hospitalized Chagas disease discharge data , in order to describe Chagas disease’s geographical and temporal trends before and after the implementation of control measures in Spain from 1997 to 2011 . We also assess patients’ main clinical characteristics by organ affectation .
Most complex diseases arise due to combinations of genetic factors , yet current genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) typically examine individual genetic markers in isolation because of the complexity of considering a prohibitively large number of marker combinations . Another complication for GWAS stems from genetic heterogeneity , in which different subsets of individuals develop a given disease due to different sets of genetic factors . We present BlocBuster , a network-based method that addresses these challenges and extracts inter-correlated genetic markers that manifest significant associations with complex diseases . Our analysis of psoriasis GWAS data revealed a significant combinatorial genetic pattern , which was validated using stringent computational tests and replication in independent data . This pattern is more significant than other previously identified markers . We also compared Pearson's correlation coefficient and observed that it introduced more type I errors and produced a less structured network than BlocBuster; the former also broke the combinatorial pattern into pieces . In addition to improving prediction of disease susceptibility and broadening our understanding of the pathogenesis underlying psoriasis , these results demonstrate BlocBuster's effectiveness for discovering combinatorial genetic associations within heterogeneous backgrounds , thereby transcending the limiting “small effects” produced by individual markers examined in isolation .
Here , we systematically test the genetic etiology of three common developmental brain malformations: agenesis of the corpus callosum ( ACC ) , cerebellar hypoplasia ( CBLH ) , and polymicrogyria ( PMG ) by copy number variation ( CNV ) analysis in a large cohort of brain malformation patients and controls . We found significantly more ACC but not CBLH or PMG patients with rare genic CNVs over one megabase and with rare CNVs impacting over 20 genes when compared with controls . De novo CNVs were found in 9 . 4% of ACC patients , and interestingly many such CNVs overlapped with de novo CNVs observed in autism . Notably , numerous studies have demonstrated a reduction in the corpus callosum area in autistic brains . Our analysis also refined previously known large CNVs that cause these malformations , and identified six novel CNVs that are likely deleterious . One ACC patient had inherited a deletion from the father which , through exome sequencing , was found to uncover a recessive nonsense mutation in NDE1 on the non-deleted allele inherited from the mother . Our study is the first to systematically evaluate the burden of rare genic CNVs in congenital brain malformations and shows that large gene-rich CNVs are more common in ACC than in CBLH and PMG .
The planarian displays a remarkable ability to regenerate any tissue from mere fragments of its original size . This high capacity to regenerate is attributed to the abundant population of pluripotent adult stem cells . In response to an injury , such as an amputation , stem cells proliferate and replace the lost tissues de novo ( epimorphosis ) , whereas existing tissue must rescale to the correct proportions in relation to the new fragment size ( morphallaxis ) . Currently , the molecules that control either the responses to injury or the ones that mediate size and scaling are not well understood . For instance , how are the injury responses precisely activated and shut down to ensure regenerating tissues are not under- or overgrown ? Here , we find that Yki , the effector of the Hippo signalling cascade , is a critical molecule that influences several injury processes during regeneration . Loss of Yki function in regenerating animals resulted in increased and temporally dysregulated expression of wound-induced genes , proliferation , and apoptosis . Genes that are injury induced were mis-expressed in yki ( RNAi ) animals , which also showed increases in the epidermal and muscle cell populations . Taken together , our findings suggest that the injury responses must be restricted to ensure proper regenerative outcomes of correct scale , and that Yki is a key regulator in these processes .
Exosomes are small membrane-encapsulated vesicles that secrete into the extracellular environment . Various proteins and RNA molecules have been identified in exosomes whose content reflects the physiological or pathological state of the host cells . Researches have shown that exosomes released from virus-infected cells contain a variety of viral and host cellular factors that are able to modulate recipient’s cellular responses and result in productive infection of the recipient host . Here , we showed that Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) , a non-enveloped , single-strand positive sense RNA virus that belongs to the family Picornaviridae and is a major etiologic agent of hand-foot and-mouth disease ( HFMD ) , could stimulate exosome secretion and differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exosomes . The exosomal viral RNA could be transferred to and replicate in a new target cell while the exosomal miR-146a suppressed type I interferon response in the target cell , thus facilitating the viral replication . Importantly , in vivo study showed that exosomal viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation as compared to the free virus particles . We postulate that the preferential packaging of miRNA-146a into exosome is a viral strategy of suppressing host innate immunity upon infection and the exosomal EV 71 RNA may play an important pathogenic role in the infection .
Parkinson's disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disease pathologically characterized by degeneration of dopaminergic ( DA ) neurons in the midbrain . A small percentage of PD cases are inherited in a Mendelian manner , and several disease-causing genes have been identified . The PINK1 and Parkin genes have been isolated as the genes for autosomal recessive form of early-onset PD . Unexpectedly , loss of function of either PINK1 or Parkin in Drosophila causes mitochondrial degeneration in the flight muscles , which exhibits a visible phenotype of abnormal wing postures , allowing a rapid genetic screening . We purified PINK1-binding proteins from human cultured cells and screened the gene for these binding proteins using the PINK1 mutant flies . We found that inactivation of a PINK1-binding protein phosphoglycerate mutase 5 ( PGAM5 ) suppresses mitochondrial degeneration caused by the loss of PINK1 activity . Although parkin is suggested to be genetically downstream of PINK1 in Drosophila , loss of PGAM5 failed to modulate the phenotypes by parkin inactivation . Our finding suggested that , for mitochondrial maintenance of tissues with high-energy demands such as the muscles and DA neurons , PGAM5 acts between PINK1 and Parkin , or functions independently of Parkin downstream of PINK1 .
Mycobacterium ulcerans is the causative agent of Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , a slow progressing ulcerative skin disease . The mode of transmission of M . ulcerans remains unknown and only little is known about the early stages of the disease and the nature of protective immune responses against this pathogen . Given the increasing evidence for an early intracellular growth phase of M . ulcerans , we aimed at evaluating the impact of cell-mediated immunity for immunological defense against M . ulcerans infections . By comparing wild-type and interferon-γ-deficient mice in a BU mouse model , we could demonstrate that interferon-γ is a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M . ulcerans infections , indicative for an important role of early intracellular multiplication of the pathogen . In mice lacking interferon-γ the bacterial burden increased faster , resulting in accelerated pathogenesis . The observed differences between the two mouse strains were most likely due to differences in the capacity of macrophages to kill intracellular bacilli during the early stages of infection .
The levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) that are generated as a side product of mitochondrial respiratory electron transport largely define the extent of oxidative stress in living cells . Free radicals formed in electron transport , such as ubisemiquinone , could pass their non-paired electron directly to oxygen , thus producing superoxide radical that gives rise to a variety of ROS . It is well known in clinical practice that upon recommencing oxygen supply after anoxia a tissue produces much more ROS than before the anoxia , and the state of high ROS production is stable . The mechanism of switching from low to high ROS production by temporal anoxia was unknown , in part because of the lack of detailed mathematical description of hundreds of redox states of respiratory complexes , which are formed in the process of electron transport . A new methodology of automated construction of large systems of differential equations allowed us to describe the system in detail and predicts that the mechanism of paradoxical effect of anoxia-reoxygenation could be defined by the properties of complex III of mitochondrial respiratory chain . Our experiments confirmed that the effect of hypoxia-reoxygenation is confined by intramitochondrial processes since it is observed in isolated mitochondria .
Currently , there are two very different approaches to the study of pattern formation: Traditional developmental genetics investigates the role of particular factors in great mechanistic detail , while newly developed systems-biology methods study many factors in parallel but usually remain rather general in their conclusions . Here , we attempt to bridge the gap between the two by studying the expression pattern and function of a particular developmental gene—the terminal gap gene huckebein ( hkb ) in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster—in great quantitative detail using a systems-level approach called the gene circuit method . Gene circuits are mathematical models which allow us to reconstitute a developmental process in the computer . This allows us to study the function of the hkb gene in its wild-type regulatory context with unprecedented accuracy and resolution . Our results confirm earlier , qualitative evidence , and show that hkb plays a small , but crucial role in gap gene regulation . Understanding hkb's regulatory contributions is essential for our wider understanding of dynamic shifts in the position of gap gene expression domains which play important roles during both development and evolution .
We report here a novel immunotherapy for cost effective and simple treatment of Brucellosis , a zoonotic disease of global importance . The two main novelties of this work which have important implications are the following: Plasma RNA ( specific to Brucella abortus in this case ) has been used as a biomarker for the first time to successfully monitor the efficacy of an antibacterial therapy ( in this case , immunotherapy of brucellosis ) . There is no published report of such a biomarker for monitoring the therapy in Brucellosis or any other bacterial infection . Bacterial counts in spleen and other organs before and after phage therapy ( after sacrificing ) have been used in mice . However , this is not applicable in cattle and humans . Therefore , this novel application of a specific biomarker for periodic minimally invasive and non destructive monitoring of the efficacy of antibacterial therapy could be very useful in Medicine . The phage lysate of RB51 strain of Brucella abortus has been successfully used for immunotherapy of Brucellosis in cattle for the first time . Although S19 lysate has been used earlier in mice for prophylaxis , it induces only antibody and not cell mediated immune response which is essential for protection against intracellular pathogens like Brucella .
Multiple cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) control human cell proliferation , but it remains unclear how functions of different CDKs are coordinated during unperturbed cell division or after dividing cells incur DNA damage . DNA lesions activate checkpoint signaling pathways to inhibit CDK activity , arrest the cell division cycle , and thus prevent loss of genetic information; but an effective response to damage also requires CDK activity to modify components of repair and checkpoint pathways . We took a chemical-genetic approach to ask if a specific CDK , Cdk2 , played a specialized , non-redundant role in protecting genomic integrity of human cells . By sensitizing Cdk2 to chemical inhibition , we were able to detect a specific requirement for its catalytic activity in survival of cells after exposure to ionizing radiation ( IR ) . We identified Nbs1 , product of the gene mutated in the cancer-predisposing Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome , as a Cdk2 substrate and showed that mutant forms of Nbs1 that cannot be modified by Cdk2 are defective in protecting cells from death due to IR–induced DNA damage . Therefore , our work defines a DNA damage response pathway that depends on catalytic activity of a specific CDK in human cells and suggests a mechanism to promote efficient repair without triggering inappropriate cell division .
Genome-wide scans have revealed multiple genetic regions underlying complex traits . However , the transition from an initial association signal to identifying the functional DNA change ( s ) has proved challenging . Many of the DNA changes discovered are located outside protein-coding regions and may exert their effects through gene regulation . We screened genetic regions associated with hematological traits in erythroblasts ( red blood cells ) and megakaryocytes ( platelet-producing cells ) and mapped sites of open chromatin , which harbor active gene regulatory elements . We investigated a DNA sequence change located within a site of open chromatin at chromosome 7 in megakaryocytes , but not erythroblasts , known to be associated with platelet volume . We showed that this DNA change is functional due to alteration of the binding site of a transcription factor , which regulates the expression of a gene that affects platelet characteristics . Mice lacking this gene revealed significant differences in expression of several important platelet genes compared to wild-type mice . The approach described here can be applied in different cell types to functionally follow-up association signals with many other biological traits by identification of the causative base change and how it affects gene function , thus paving the way to clinical benefit .
The application of pharmacological agents that affect transmembrane ionic currents in neurons is a commonly used experimental technique . A simplistic interpretation of experiments involving these agents suggests that antagonist application removes the impacted current and that subsequently observed changes in activity are attributable to the loss of that current’s effects . The more complex reality , however , is that different drugs may have distinct mechanisms of action , some corresponding not to a removal of a current but rather to a changing of its properties . We use computational modeling to explore the implications of the distinct mechanisms associated with two drugs , riluzole and tetrodotoxin , that are often characterized as sodium channel blockers . Through this approach , we offer potential explanations for disparate findings observed in experiments on neural respiratory circuits and show that the experimental results are consistent with a key role for the persistent sodium current in respiratory rhythm generation .
MicroRNAs have been identified as playing important roles in tumor metastasis , but their impact on GC metastasis has been poorly explored . We have discovered miR-218 , which functions as a suppressor of tumor metastasis and is correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , and prognosis in patients with GC . Our results show that miR-218 is part of a regulatory circuit involving the Slit-Robo1 pathway . In metastatic tumor cells , miR-218 was suppressed along with Slit3 , one of its host genes . Meanwhile , Robo1 , one of several Slit receptors , is upregulated in response to the decrease in miR-218 , which in turn induced a reactive upregulation of the Slit-Robo1 pathway through an interaction with Slit2 , thus facilitating tumor cell migration and invasion . Such findings not only provide new insights into the metastatic mechanisms in GC but also provide evidence for a novel miRNA–mediated regulatory mode of receptor signaling .
Atherosclerosis is present in the major arteries of all adults . In industrial societies , atherosclerosis progression in ∼50% of adults leads to clinical manifestations such as stroke and myocardial infarction , and eventually death . Lowering circulating LDL-cholesterol levels can slow atherosclerosis progression and even cause regression . Yet , little is known about the genes in the atherosclerotic arterial wall that mediate those effects . To identify such genes , we studied genetically modified mice in which high levels of human-like LDL-cholesterol cause rapid progression of atherosclerosis; the mice also had a genetic “switch” to lower LDL-cholesterol . Lowering LDL-cholesterol at a critical point before advanced plaques developed stopped lesion progression . Analysis of gene expression in response to the lowering of plasma LDL-cholesterol revealed 37 lesion genes as possible mediators of this effect . We validated some of these genes in macrophages using siRNA incubated with acetylated-LDL to mimic foam cells , which are central to atherosclerosis progression . “Reverse engineering” of whole-genome expression data from these experiments revealed a regulatory gene network of cholesterol-responsive atherosclerosis genes that control foam cell formation . This network and the individual genes within it merit further attention as targets for drugs to prevent the transformation of early harmless lesions into advanced , clinically significant plaques .
Bacteria are surrounded by complex structures called cell envelopes that play an essential role in maintaining cellular integrity . Organisms classified as Gram-negative have especially complicated envelopes that consist of two membranes with a tough cell wall exoskeleton sandwiched between them . This envelope architecture is extremely proficient at preventing drug molecules from entering the cell . Gram-negative bacteria are therefore intrinsically resistant to many antibiotics , limiting the therapeutic options for treating infections caused by these organisms . To reveal new weaknesses in the Gram-negative envelope for drug targeting , we developed a quantitative , high-throughput assay for mutants with envelope biogenesis defects and used it to screen an ordered single-gene deletion library of the model Gram-negative bacterium Escherichia coli . Importantly , the screen implicated 102 genes of previously unknown function as encoding factors that likely participate in envelope biogenesis . As a proof of principle , one of these factors , ElyC ( YcbC ) , was characterized further and shown to play a critical role in the metabolism of the essential lipid carrier used for cell wall synthesis . Further study of ElyC function and that of other factors identified in our screen is likely to reveal novel ways to disrupt the envelope assembly process for therapeutic purposes .
A wide range of problems in biology require analysis of multivariable dynamics in space and time . As a rule , the multiscale nature and complexity of real systems precludes simultaneous monitoring of all the relevant variables , and multivariable dynamics must be synthesized from partial views provided by different experimental techniques . We present a formal framework for accomplishing this task in the context of imaging studies of pattern formation in developing tissues .
Local and systemic hemorrhage are typical manifestations of envenomings by viperid snakes . Hemorrhagic activity is due to the action of snake venom metalloproteinases ( SVMPs ) in the microvasculature , especially in capillaries . There are large differences in the hemorrhagic potential of SVMPs , depending on their domain composition . The present study compared PI , PII and PIII hemorrhagic SVMPs for their tissue distribution and their ability to cleave proteins of the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , especially those of the basement membrane ( BM ) that provides mechanical stability to microvessels . Observations indicate that PII and PIII SVMPs , which exert a high hemorrhagic activity , are preferentially located in microvessels , whereas PI SVMP is distributed in a more widespread fashion in the tissue . In addition , when these toxins are injected at doses that induce a similar hemorrhagic effect , they cleave type IV collagen to a similar extent , showing differences in the cleavage patterns of other ECM components , such as laminin , nidogen and type VI collagen . The analysis of the exudates resultant from the action of these SVMPs in the tissue revealed many similarities and some differences in the exudate proteomes . Overall our results indicate that hydrolysis of type IV collagen is a key event in the onset of microvessel damage , and that the ability of SVMPs to bind to microvessels greatly determines their hemorrhagic potential .
Although long , noncoding RNAs have been found in many organisms , it has been difficult to assign to them any molecular function . The homeotic gene clusters in the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster , contain many such noncoding RNAs . We have characterized one such noncoding RNA , a 92 kb transcription unit from within the bithorax complex . This transcript , called the iab-8 ncRNA , is made in the cells of the central nervous system in the eighth abdominal segment , along with the homeotic transcription factor Abdominal-B . Another homeotic transcription factor , abdominal-A , is repressed in these cells . It has generally been assumed that abdominal-A repression in these cells is mediated by the Abdominal-B protein . However , here we show that it is not Abdominal-B that represses abdominal-A , but the iab-8 ncRNA . This repression is accomplished by two redundant mechanisms; the iab-8 precursor produces a micro RNA , which targets the abdominal-A mRNA , and iab-8 transcription interferes with the abdominal-A promoter , which lies just downstream of the iab-8 ncRNA poly ( A ) site .
Much attention has been devoted to the mechanisms underlying epileptic seizures . However , so far , the morphology of how seizures start on electrographic recordings ( i . e . the seizure onset pattern ) has been neglected as a potential indicator of the underlying dynamic mechanism . In this work , we take a spatio-temporal modelling approach to reproduce and understand two major seizure onset patterns . We find that it is not necessarily the initiation in the seizure core that determines onset pattern , but that the excitability of the surrounding “healthy” tissue plays a pivotal role in how the seizure onset appears . In agreement with previous computational modelling work , we hypothesise that indeed the two patterns could arise due to different dynamic onset mechanisms , where the surround excitability differs fundamentally in their dynamic properties . Our hypothesis indeed also offers a simple explanation for the clinically reported difference in surgical outcome for the two onset patterns . As an outlook , we also propose a possible way to track such changes in the surround excitability in a proof-of-principle computational demonstration .
Sperm cells of animals and lower plants are mobile and can swim to the oocyte or egg cell . In contrast , flowering plants generate immobile sperm encased in a pollen coat to protect them from drying out and are transported via the pollen tube cell towards the egg apparatus to achieve double fertilization . Upon arrival the pollen tube tip bursts to deliver two sperm cells , one fusing with the egg cell to generate the embryo and the other fusing with the central cell to generate the endosperm . Here , we report the mechanisms leading to pollen tube burst and sperm discharge in maize . We found that before fertilization the defensin-like protein ZmES1-4 is stored in the secretory zone of the egg apparatus cells and that pollen tubes cannot discharge sperm in ZmES1-4 knock-down plants . Application of chemically synthesized ZmES4 leads to pollen tube burst within seconds in maize , but not in other plant species , suggesting this mechanism may be species specific . Finally , we identified the pollen tube-expressed potassium channel KZM1 as a target of ZmES4 , which opens after ZmES4 treatment and probably leads to K+ influx and sperm release after osmotic burst .
In the genome of human herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) we have replaced part of the sequences encoding the receptor-binding glycoprotein with antibody fragments directed against the oncoprotein HER-2 , overexpressed in human breast and ovarian cancers . The retargeted HSV only infects and kills human cancer cells expressing high levels of HER-2 . Earlier experiments showed that the retargeted HSV injected inside localized tumors inhibits human tumor growth in immunodeficient mice . As tumor dissemination is the major cause of cancer mortality , we have now used the HER-2-retargeted HSV to treat disseminated HER-2+ ovarian and breast cancer in immunodeficient mice . Intraperitoneal treatments significantly inhibited the peritoneal spread ( carcinomatosis and ascites formation ) of ovarian cancer cells and the metastatic growth of breast cancer cells in the ovaries . Brain metastases were also inhibited . Our results showed that a HER-2-redirected oncolytic HSV is an effective therapeutic agent against metastatic HER-2+ cancers and , more generally , provide the first demonstration of the efficacy of a systemically-administered , retargeted oncolytic HSV .
Chromosomes are replicated during the cell cycle and distributed to two progeny cells on a machine called the spindle , such that each cell has one complete copy of the genome . The chromosomes are moved by attachment to the long microtubule polymers of the mitotic spindle , formed from a centrosome at each end of the spindle . Mechanisms that restrict DNA replication and centrosome duplication to once per cell cycle are critical , as defects in either event result in genetic instability and are associated with cancer . Cell cycle-dependent control of DNA replication has been extensively studied , but comparatively little is known about the regulation of centrosome duplication , particularly its restriction to once per cell cycle . Using genetics and cytology , including super-resolution imaging to detect reduplicated centrosomes , we show that cyclin-dependent kinase phosphorylation of Sfi1 , a conserved component of centrosomes , prevents the occurrence of extra rounds of yeast centrosome duplication during the cell cycle . Additionally , we propose that dephosphorylation of Sfi1 by the phosphatase Cdc14 permits centrosome duplication for the next cell cycle . Our work is the first to provide a mechanism for how centrosome duplication , like DNA replication , occurs once during the cell cycle through cyclin-dependent kinase regulation .
HIV-1 encodes nine genes , five of which ( gag , pol , env , tat , and rev ) are essential for viral replication , and four , termed accessory genes ( vif , vpu , nef , and vpr ) , appear to aid virus infection . Of the four accessory proteins , Vpr is the most enigmatic . It is well known that Vpr has the potential to cause G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in vitro . Moreover , it has been reported that Vpr-mediated G2 arrest increases HIV-1 production in vitro . However , the role of Vpr in HIV-1 propagation in vivo remains unclear . Here , by using a humanized mouse model , we demonstrate that Vpr enhances CCR5-tropic but not CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 replication in vivo by exploiting Tregs during acute infection . In CCR5-tropic HIV-1-infected humanized mice , Vpr-dependent G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis are predominantly observed in infected Tregs , and wild-type but not vpr-deficient HIV-1-infected mice displayed acute Treg depletion . This Vpr-dependent Treg depletion may lead to immune activation and provide a pool of activated/proliferating CD4+ T cells , which supports subsequent HIV-1 expansion in vivo . This is the first report demonstrating the role of Vpr in HIV-1 infection in vivo .
Vivax malaria is widely prevalent , predominantly in Asia and South America . There were 390 million cases reported in 2009 . Worldwide , in the same year , 2 . 85 billion people were at risk of infection . Plasmodium vivax is not limited to tropical and subtropical regions; it also appears in temperate areas . We previously examined the characteristics of P . vivax in South Korea , a temperate area , temporally , using 10 microsatellite DNA ( a short tandem repeat DNA sequence ) in the parasite genome and found the population to have low genetic diversity and a low recombination rate in comparison to tropical areas . In the present study , we examine the successive changes of the South Korean populations from 1994 to 2008 , and the reasons for the lack of success in eliminating vivax malaria in this country . We found that , in spite of a low recombination rate , outbreeding between different genotypes seemed to increase gradually , and that the genetic composition of the population drastically changed during 2002 and 2003 . This suggests that the parasite is continually introduced from other populations , probably from North Korea . The present study also demonstrated the utility of polymorphic DNA markers of P . vivax for the estimation of the transmission situation in endemic areas .
Eukaryotic genes differ from their prokaryotic counterparts in having intervening non-coding sequences called introns . The precise biological role of introns in eukaryotic systems remains unclear even more than forty years after their initial discovery . One function of intron that has been remarkably conserved during evolution is their ability to enhance the transcription of genes that harbor them . How does the intron regulate transcription , however , is not known . Here we show that the intron enhances gene expression by affecting direction of the promoter-initiated transcription . In the presence of an intron , polymerase tends to transcribe the downstream coding region producing mRNA , while in the absence of a splicing-competent intron polymerase starts transcribing promoter upstream region producing upstream antisense RNA ( uaRNA ) . Intron-mediated promoter directionality was dependent on gene looping , which is the interaction off the promoter and terminator region of a gene in a transcription-dependent manner . We show that the intron-dependent gene looping facilitates the recruitment of termination factors in the promoter-proximal region . The recruited termination factors stop uaRNA synthesis thereby conferring directionality to the promoter-bound polymerase .
The molecular identification of genes and mutations affecting complex traits and disorders has proven to be very challenging in humans as well as in model organisms . These so-called quantitative traits arise from interactions between two or more genes and their environment , and can be mapped to their underlying genes via closely linked stretches of DNA called quantitative trait loci ( QTL ) . Previously , we identified a single nucleotide substitution in a noncoding region of the insulin-like growth factor 2 gene ( IGF2 ) in pigs that is underlying a major QTL affecting muscle growth , heart size , and fat deposition . The mutation disrupts interaction with an unknown nuclear protein acting as a repressor of IGF2 transcription . In the present study , we have isolated a zinc finger protein of unknown function and show that it regulates the expression of IGF2 . The protein , which we named ZBED6 , is encoded by a domesticated DNA transposon that was inserted into the genome prior to the radiation of placental mammals . ZBED6 is exclusive to placental mammals and highly conserved among species . Our functional characterization of ZBED6 shows that it has a broad tissue distribution and may affect the expression of thousands of other genes , besides IGF2 , that control fundamental biological processes . We postulate that ZBED6 is an important transcription factor affecting development , cell proliferation , and growth in placental mammals .
RNA editing is a co-transcriptional process that introduces differences between RNA and its corresponding DNA sequence . Currently , the next generation sequencing have allowed study of the editome in a comprehensive and efficient manner . However , fundamental issues involving accurate mapping of the editome as well as its regulation and functional outcome remain unresolved . To further unveil the underlying mechanisms from the evolutionary perspective , we report here the editome profile in rhesus macaque , one of our closest evolutionary relatives . We identified a list of 31 , 250 RNA-editing sites and deciphered an accurate and informative editome across multiple tissues and animals . We found that the adenosine deamination is associated with the macaque editome , in that both the sequence context and the expression profile of ADARs are relevant factors in determining the quantitative variance of RNA editing across different sites and tissue types . Importantly , some of these RNA-editing events represent functional regulation , rather than neutral signals , as suggested by substitution valley of decreased divergence detected around the editing sites , an indication of selective constraint in maintaining some of these editing substrates with their double-stranded structure . The macaque editome thus provides an informative evolutionary context for an in-depth understanding of RNA editing regulation .
An attractive view on human information processing proposes that inference problems are dealt with in a statistically optimal fashion . This hypothesis can explain aspects of perception , movement planning , cognition and decision making . In the present study , I use a new psychophysical paradigm that reveals surprisingly suboptimal perceptual decision making . Observers discriminate between two sinusoidal gratings of a different spatial frequency . Making use of visual noise , I induce an asymmetry in neural population responses to the gratings and find this asymmetry to effectively bias perceptual decision making . A simple ideal observer model , uninformed about the presence of visual noise but only considering the two grating spatial frequencies relevant to the task at hand , manages to avoid such a bias . I conclude that observers are limited in their ability to make use of prior knowledge of relevant visual features when performing this task . These results are in line with a growing number of findings suggesting that near-optimal decoders , although straightforward to implement and achieving near-maximal performance , consistently overestimate empirical performance in simple perceptual tasks .
Across the animal kingdom , Piwi-interacting small RNAs ( piRNAs ) protect genome integrity and promote fertility . While the functions of piRNAs are well-characterized , far less is known about how they are generated and how their expression is regulated . In the Caenorhabditis elegans genome , a conserved sequence motif lies upstream of many piRNA loci and appears to regulate their expression . We combined computational and experimental approaches to investigate the role of this motif in the expression of C . elegans piRNAs . We discovered that >70% of piRNAs are differentially enriched in male versus female germline , and these male and female piRNAs show different upstream motifs . Using a transgenic system for expressing synthetic piRNAs in vivo , we demonstrate that variation of a single nucleotide within this motif influences piRNA germline enrichment . We further show that the conserved motif is capable of driving piRNA expression in genomic isolation . Accordingly , the genomic distribution of these motifs determines which sequences are expressed as piRNAs in C . elegans . Our results suggest that each C . elegans piRNA represents an independent transcript whose sequence , abundance , and germline enrichment are encoded by a variant upstream motif , defining a novel modality for expression of piRNAs .
The genus Brucella is a serious intracellular pathogen that causes brucellosis in a wide range of animals including humans . Infection with Brucella spp . results in a significant economic and health burden due to its high infectivity , chronic nature , and difficulties in vaccine production . Better understanding of the host-pathogen interplay that supports Brucella replication is essential for the development of effective treatments for brucellosis . The unfolded protein response ( UPR ) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several viral and bacterial infections . These pathogens modulate individual pathways of the UPR to enable their replication in host cells . Autophagy has also been linked to the survival of several intracellular pathogens . They subvert autophagic machineries of host cells to establish their safe replication niche . In the present study , we show that the activation of the IRE1 pathway of the UPR and the subsequent formation of ER-derived vacuoles are crucial for intracellular survival of B . abortus . In addition , we identified a novel host factor Yip1A that is responsible for these processes . Characterization of the function of Yip1A will provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which Brucella spp . replicates in host cells .
Replication of RNA viruses infecting various eukaryotic organisms is the central step in the infection process that leads to generation of progeny viruses . The replication process requires the assembly of numerous viral replicase complexes within the large replication compartment , whose formation is not well understood . Using tombusviruses and the model host yeast , the authors discovered that a highly conserved cellular lipid kinase , Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) , is critical for the formation of the viral replication compartment . Expression of PI3K mutants and the PI ( 3 ) P phosphatase revealed that the PI ( 3 ) P phosphoinositide produced by Vps34 is crucial for tombusvirus replication . Tombusviruses co-opt Vps34 through interaction with the viral replication protein into the replication compartment . In vitro reconstitution of the tombusvirus replicase revealed the need for Vps34 and PI ( 3 ) P for the full-activity of the viral replicase . Chemical inhibition of Vps34 in yeast or plants showed that PI ( 3 ) P is important for the replication of several plant viruses within the Tombusviridae family and the insect-infecting Nodamuravirus . These results open up the possibility that the cellular Vps34 PI3K could be a target for new antiviral strategies .
In the context of ongoing clinic- and field-based epidemiological studies on dengue virus ( DENV ) , we compared methods of feeding mosquitoes on blood from naturally infected humans . Participants chose to participate in direct ( uninfected mosquitoes applied directly to skin ) and/or indirect ( uninfected mosquitoes fed on a membrane feeder in the laboratory with blood drawn from a participant ) methods . Overall , rates of DENV infection and dissemination were lower in mosquitoes fed indirectly on blood with no additive than in mosquitoes fed directly on a participant . Rates of DENV infection and dissemination were similar between mosquitoes fed directly and indirectly when anticoagulant ( EDTA ) was added . The indirect-EDTA method resulted in more variable infection rates than the direct method . Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using either direct or indirect feeding methods to study DENV-human infectiousness to mosquito vectors . In our experience , however , direct feeding is preferable to indirect feeding in terms of logistical ease , biosecurity , and reliability .
The severe cytotoxic effects associated with anti-neoplastic treatment regimens make it difficult to assess the contributions of genetic variation on treatment responses in clinical settings . Therefore , we leveraged genetic diversity present in the metazoan model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to identify genetic variants that contribute to differential susceptibility to a broadly administered class of anti-neoplastic compounds that poison the activity of topoisomerase II enzymes . We show that wild C . elegans isolates contain either glutamine or methionine at a highly conserved residue of the topoisomerase II ( TOP-2 ) protein and that this substitution is predictive of animal responses to the topoisomerase II poisons etoposide , teniposide , dactinomycin , and XK469 . Interestingly , the two human versions of this protein , hTOPIIα and hTOPIIβ , contain a methionine or glutamine at the corresponding residue , respectively . We show that this difference between the two human topoisomerase II isoforms contributes to the differential cytotoxicity induced by these drugs . Taken together , our results highlight the power of studying the effects of natural genetic variation on drug responses in a model organism and propose methods to develop new drugs that have increased affinity for the desired hTOPIIα isoform expressed in tumor cells .
As an adaption to different environments rodents have evolved a wide range of lifespans . While most rodents are short-lived , along several phylogenetic branches long-lived species evolved . This provided us a unique opportunity to search for genes that are associated with enhanced longevity in mammals . Towards this , we computationally compared gene sequences of exceptional long-lived rodent species ( like the naked mole-rat and chinchilla ) and short-lived rodents ( like rat and mouse ) and identified those which evolved exceptional fast . As natural selection acts in parallel on a multitude of phenotypes , only a subset of the identified genes is probably associated with enhanced longevity . Applying several tests , we ensured that the dataset is related to aging . We conclude that lifespan extension in rodents can be attributed to changes in their defense against free radicals , iron homeostasis as well as cellular respiration and translation as central parts of the growth program . This confirms aging theories assuming a tradeoff between fast growth and long lifespan . Moreover , our study offers a meaningful resource of targets , i . e . genes and specific positions therein , for functional follow-up studies on their potential roles in the determination of lifespan–regardless whether they are currently known to be aging-related or not .
Aedes albopictus is one of the major human disease vectors and , despite substantial control efforts , it is rapidly spreading worldwide and increasing its epidemiological role . Thus , innovative approaches to fight this mosquito are urgently needed . Among the available control strategies , the exploitation of the endosymbiotic bacterium Wolbachia seems to be promising . In nature , the infection by Wolbachia is generally not detrimental , instead , it causes a series of modifications in host physiology promoting the spread of the infection in uninfected populations . Herein , we report on the artificial transinfection of specific Wolbachia strains in Ae . albopictus to replace its native Wolbachia infection type . This manipulation aimed at exploiting the expected modifications in the reproductive biology and vector competence of the species to contribute to reduce its epidemiological role . Specifically , we found that the new double Wolbachia infection did not affect Ae . albopictus fitness . The males belonging to the manipulated line , ARwP-M , induced full egg infertility in the wild-type females they mate with and showed increased male mating competitiveness . Remarkably , the ARwP-M females demonstrated significantly reduced competence for chikungunya and dengue viruses while both tested Ae . albopictus lines showed a very low susceptibility for Zika virus . These findings may encourage the use of ARwP-M Ae . albopictus as a highly efficient and safe biocide to suppress the wild-type populations .
Protein-protein interactions are paramount in any aspect of the cellular life . Some proteins form large macromolecular complexes that execute core functionalities of the cell , while others transmit information in signalling networks to co-ordinate these processes . The latter type , of more transient nature , often occurs through the recognition of a small linear sequence motif in one protein by a specialized globular domain in the other . These peptide stretches often contain a consensus pattern complementary to the interaction surface displayed by their binding partners , and adopt a well-defined structure upon binding . Information that is currently available only from high-resolution three-dimensional ( 3D ) structures , and that can be as characteristic as the consensus motif itself . In this manuscript , we present a strategy to identify novel domain-motif interactions ( DMIs ) among the set of protein complexes of known 3D structures , which provides information on the consensus motif and binding domain and also allows ready identification of the key interacting residues . A detailed knowledge of the interface is critical to plan further functional studies and for the development of interfering elements , be it drug-like compounds or novel engineered binding proteins or peptides . The small interfaces typical for DMIs make them interesting candidates for all these applications .
Environmental enteropathy is a widespread problem in adults and children in many disadvantaged populations , particularly in the tropics . It is not attributable to one specific infectious agent , but likely due to several insults of environmental origin . It is associated with growth failure in children , impaired responses to oral vaccines , and contributes to micronutrient deficiencies . Many of these problems can be related to immune activation , but the pathways of immune activation are unknown . Here we show that translocation of gut microbes and their molecular components is associated with defects in the epithelial lining of the gut , imaged using advanced endoscopic techniques . We also report evidence that these defects are associated with failure of endocrine and paracrine repair mechanisms which in health should restore the integrity of the intestinal barrier . These observations may open up new approaches for therapy for a neglected tropical disorder which impairs the health of millions of adults and children .
Superinfection exclusion ( SIE ) is employed by many viruses to guard their host cells against secondary invasions by the same or highly similar viruses . We describe a transformative discovery that self-perpetuating coalescence of a virus-encoded replication protein serves as a novel mechanism for SIE . Our findings further suggest that the primary targets of SIE may very well be progeny viral genomes rather than superinfectors , with the goal of blocking renewed multiplication of progeny viruses in the cells resided by “parental” viruses , thereby minimizing the proliferation of replication errors . Consequently , the general mechanistic framework revealed in this study may be highly conserved among viruses with diverse genome structures and host organisms , and could become a potent target for antiviral therapy .
Over 11 million individuals are infected with Trypanosoma cruzi , the causative agent of Chagas disease , which kills >50 , 000 people annually . Although recent vector control efforts and increased use and effectiveness of chemotherapeutic drugs including benznidazole have reduced infection rates and mortality , a safe , effective vaccine is needed . Vaccination with the T . cruzi trans-sialidase ( TS ) has been used effectively in mice to reduce mortality and chronic disease , however , the establishment of vaccine-induced long-term protective immunity remains elusive . Co-immunization strategies utilizing immune regulators such as interleukin-12 ( IL-12 ) and interleukin-15 ( IL-15 ) can be used to enhance antigen-specific T cell responses and prolong protective immunity . In the present report , we show that genetic vaccination of BALB/c mice with plasmid DNA encoding both TS and IL-15 compared with plasmid DNA encoding TS alone significantly enhanced CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses including increased TNF-α , IFN-γ , and IL-2 production , and long-term protection against lethal systemic parasite challenge .
African trypanosomes are the causative agents of sleeping sickness in humans and nagana in cattle in sub-Saharan Africa . These unicellular parasites possess a flagellum , which is a long , lash-like appendage that is protruded from the cell body and serves for locomotion of the parasites . The flagellum is attached to the cell body via a specialized structure termed flagellum attachment zone ( FAZ ) filament . Assembly of the FAZ filament is necessary to maintain flagellum-cell body attachment , which is required for maintaining normal cell shape and for ensuring faithful cell division . A key regulator of flagellum-cell body attachment is the Polo-like kinase ( PLK ) , an evolutionarily conserved protein kinase that regulates many downstream effectors . The level of PLK appears to be tightly controlled , but the underlying mechanism is still elusive . Here we report a novel protein that controls PLK abundance by targeting PLK for degradation . Depletion of this novel protein causes excessive accumulation of PLK and disrupts FAZ filament assembly , leading to flagellum detachment and defective cell division . These results discover the molecular mechanism underlying the control of PLK protein abundance in trypanosomes .
The establishment of innate immunity to pathogens requires cells to sense microbial molecules and to initiate a de novo transcription-based antimicrobial response . With the identification of Rig I and Mda5 , two RNA helicases were shown to serve as pivotal receptors of viral RNA . Subsequently , a considerable number of RNA helicases were proposed to function as sensors or signal transducers for both microbial RNA and DNA . X-chromosome-encoded RNA helicase DDX3X was discovered as an interactor of the S/T kinase TBK1 which regulates the production of type I Interferons ( IFN-I ) . However , the importance of DDX3X for innate immunity in an organismic context remained elusive . Here we describe and analyze mice lacking DDX3X in hematopoietic cells . We show contributions of DDX3X to hematopoiesis and a striking loss in resistance against Listeria monocytogenes . Our data reveal that DDX3X is critically involved in enhancing the expression of numerous antimicrobial genes . Consistently , production of important cytokines such as IL12 or IFNγ is reduced . Furthermore , DDX3X-deficient macrophages show reduced ability to restrict L . monocytogenes growth . Owing to partial redundancy with its close Y-chromosomal homologue , DDX3Y , the observed effects differ between mouse sexes . Thus , DDX3X may contribute to sex differences in immunity to pathogens and inflammatory disease .
All sensory neurons transduce their natural stimulus , whether a molecule , a photon , or a mechanical force , in an electrical current flowing through their sensory membrane via similar molecular and ionic mechanisms . Olfactory receptor neurons ( ORNs ) , whose stimuli are volatile molecules , are no exception , including one of the best known: the exquisitely sensitive ORNs of male moths that detect the sexual pheromone released by conspecific females . We provide a detailed computational model of the intracellular molecular mechanisms at work in this ORN type . We describe qualitatively and quantitatively how the initial event , the interaction of pheromone molecules with specialized receptors at the ORN surface , is amplified through a sequence of linked biochemical and electrical events into a whole cell response , the receptor potential . We detail the respective roles of the upward activating reactions involving a cascade of ionic channels permeable to cations , chloride and potassium , their control by feedback inactivating mechanisms , and the central regulatory role of calcium . This computational model contributes to an integrated understanding of this signalling pathway , provides testable hypotheses , and suggests new experimental approaches .
It is well established that p53 binds DNA elements near p53 target genes to regulate the response to cellular stress . To assess factors influencing binding to response elements and subsequent gene expression , we have analyzed 2932 p53-occupied response elements ( p53REs ) in the context of genome-wide chromatin state , DNA accessibility and dynamics , and considered roles for binding-sequence specificity and evolutionary conservation . While p53 occupancy level shows little apparent direct relationship to gene expression change , after grouping expressed genes by their chromatin status at baseline , a relationship between occupancy of p53REs and gene expression change emerged . Analysis of p53RE sequences demonstrated that p53 occupancy was strongly correlated with sequence similarity to p53RE consensus , but surprisingly , was inversely correlated with nucleosome accessibility ( DHS ) and evolutionary conservation . These data revealed a systematic interaction between p53RE content and chromatin context that affects both quantitative p53 occupancy and the induced transactivation response to exposure . Moreover , this interaction appears to have been tuned via evolutionary events involving transposable elements , which strongly bind p53 , but in only a few instances affect gene expression levels . Models of p53-regulated gene expression response that consider both chromatin state and sequence context may prove useful in guiding strategies for cancer prevention or therapy .
Two-component signaling systems are found in bacteria , fungi and plants . Their modular structures make them ideal targets for de novo engineering through synthetic biology . Here , we explore the signal-response relationship arising from a common two-component system , where a single HK phosphotransfers reversibly to two separate output RRs . We show that under the experimentally observed parameters , this motif implements a sigmoidal signal-response relationship , whereby one of the RRs acts as a phosphate sink towards the other . We identify two mathematical conditions on the system parameters that are necessary for sigmoidality and define key parameters that control threshold levels and sensitivity . We confirm these findings experimentally by in vitro reconstitution of the “one HK-two RR” motif found in S . meliloti . Particularly , we show that the level of sigmoidality in this system can be experimentally controlled by the amount of sink RR and also through an auxiliary protein , CheS . These findings show that the one HK-two RR motif can open the way to the design of novel threshold systems in synthetic biology .
Genetically identical cells growing in the same environment can vary in their cellular state and behavior . Such heterogeneity may explain why some cells in an isogenic population can survive sudden severe environmental stress whereas other cells succumb . Cell-to-cell variation in gene expression has been linked to variable stress survival , but how and why transcript levels vary across the transcriptome in single cells is only beginning to emerge . Here , we used single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) to measure cell-to-cell heterogeneity in the transcriptome of budding yeast ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) . We find surprising patterns of variation across known sets of transcription factor targets , indicating that cells vary in their transcriptome profile both before and after stress exposure . scRNA-seq analysis combined with live-cell imaging of transcription factor activation dynamics revealed some cells in which the stress response was coordinately activated and other cells in which the traditional response was decoupled , suggesting unrecognized regulatory nuances that expand our understanding of stress response and survival .
The protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of African trypanosomiasis in humans ( sleeping sickness ) and animals ( nagana ) . In male animals , natural infection is commonly associated with decreased fertility but the causes for this condition remain poorly understood . Interestingly , in mouse experimental infections , parasites accumulate in the male reproductive organs . Here we show that these parasites are not protected by the tissues’ specialized barriers . As a result , parasites elicit a severe immune response that leads to parasite elimination , but also causes damage to the host tissues . This damage may be associated with reduced fertility in naturally infected animals and may also hinder treatment . Moreover , the presence of large numbers of parasites in an organ that is easily accessible by aspiration cytology could provide for a novel diagnostic tool in Animal African Trypanosomiasis .
Rapid adaptation and phenotypic plasticity to the chemical environment are essential prerequisites for survival; and , consequently , large families of genes that mediate the recognition of olfactory and gustatory cues have evolved . We asked how flexible the expression of these genes is in the face of rapidly changing conditions encountered during an individual's lifetime . We used the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster , to address this question , since both the genetic composition and environmental rearing conditions can be controlled precisely in this experimentally amenable model organism . By measuring expression levels of all chemosensory genes simultaneously , we identified genes that show altered expression at different developmental stages , during aging , in males and females , following mating , and in different social conditions . We asked whether chemosensory genes are regulated independently or whether their regulation is structured . We found that chemosensory genes that are located in close proximity to one another on the chromosome are often regulated independently . However , statistical analysis showed that groups of chemosensory genes are coordinately expressed in response to a range of environmental conditions , revealing an underlying modular organization of the phenotypic plasticity of the chemosensory receptor repertoire .
One of the defining events in the formation of eggs and sperm is meiotic recombination , a process in which DNA is exchanged between “partner” chromosomes . If this process is perturbed , chromosomes often go astray during meiotic division , resulting in eggs or sperm with too many or too few chromosomes . In humans , the resulting embryos are almost always abnormal and are a major source of miscarriages or congenital birth defects ( e . g . , Down syndrome ) . Over the past decade , techniques have become available that make possible the examination of meiotic recombination “as it happens” in the human egg , and this has allowed us to define the properties of this process . In the present study , we used this methodology to characterize meiotic recombination in human fetal oocytes and to ask whether we could identify abnormal recombination patterns . Such patterns were , indeed , observed for each chromosome we studied , although different abnormalities were observed among the individual chromosomes . Thus , factors operating before birth influence the likelihood of chromosome misdivision in the adult oocyte , although those that make chromosome 21 misdivide ( leading to Down syndrome ) may not be the same as those that make other chromosomes misdivide .
Many diseases of health and economic importance are transmitted by arthropod vectors , like mosquitoes , sand flies , and ticks . When a blood-feeding arthropod bites a mammal , it injects saliva containing compounds that facilitate feeding . The immune responses elicited by previous exposure to vector saliva can alter disease severity if the host later becomes infected . Such pre-sensitisation of host immunity has been linked to either exacerbation or mitigation of symptoms in a number of disease systems . We develop a general model of vector-borne disease to examine how vector control efforts alter the frequency of immune pre-sensitisation and thus change the epidemiological impact of control . We show that the abundance of pre-sensitised infected hosts should increase when control efforts moderately increase vector mortality rates . When immune pre-sensitisation leads to longer infections—by generating sub-clinical cases for which treatment is not rapidly sought—killing vectors can lead to unexpected increases in the number of infected hosts . The rising case burden may go unnoticed unless sub-clinical individuals are tested for infection . Conversely , if immune pre-sensitisation leads to more rapid clearance of infection , increasing vector mortality rates may achieve greater than expected disease control . Our findings highlight the need to quantify how immune pre-sensitisation modulates clinical outcomes and parasite transmission in humans .
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries . Leishmania amazonensis is an important agent of leishmaniasis in Brazil , leading mainly to localized ( LCL ) and sometimes to diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis ( DCL ) , depending on the host immune response to infection . We believe that host immune response affects not only the clinical form and survival of Leishmania , but also the phenotype and virulence of the parasite . To analyze the effects of the host on Leishmania phenotype , we compared protein expression ( proteome ) of parasites isolated from wild type mice and from mice lacking T cells . We identified some protein isoforms differentially expressed , which may further be studied as potential virulence factors .
AID ( Activation Induced Deaminase ) deaminates cytosines in DNA to initiate immunoglobulin gene diversification and to reprogram the genome in early development . AID is potentially highly mutagenic , as it deaminates C to U within single-stranded regions . Here we show that AID abundance is regulated by cell cycle , and that high levels of nuclear AID are tolerated only in G1 phase . These results identify an unanticipated role for spatiotemporal regulation in balancing demands of AID-initiated mutagenesis and its potentially pathological outcomes .
Plant-fermenting bacteria are important for the global carbon cycle , human nutrition , and industrial production of renewable fuels and commodities from cellulosic biomass . Plants are primarily composed of heterogeneous polysaccharides , requiring plant-degrading microbes to encode many carbohydrate-active enzymes ( CAZymes ) to cleave different sugar linkages . Here we develop a broadly applicable method to study how microbes catabolize plant biomass by determining the combination of CAZymes that depolymerize each polysaccharide into sugars , how the cell alters global mRNA expression , and the efficiency with which each polysaccharide is metabolized . We apply this method to investigate how Clostridium phytofermentans , a bacterium encoding 171 CAZymes , ferments polysaccharides . We assimilate our results into a genetic model of how this bacterium metabolizes plant biomass and discuss how these results further our understanding of microbial plant fermentation .
Onchocerciasis studies across Sierra Leone between 1974 and 2005 showed that 12 of the 14 health districts ( HDs ) are endemic for onchocerciasis . Baseline lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) studies 2005–2008 showed that all 14 HDs of Sierra Leone are LF endemic . Three annual rounds of integrated mass drug administration ( MDA ) with ivermectin and albendazole 2008–2010 were conducted in the 12 HDs that are co-endemic for onchocerciasis and LF with good geographic , epidemiological drug ( or programme ) and drug coverage . A midterm evaluation study of mf prevalence and density was conducted in the 12 HDs in 2011 . The hypothesis proposed for this study is that areas previously exposed to ivermectin treatment for onchocerciasis control may require less rounds of annual MDA to eliminate LF ( i . e . reduce microfilaremia ( mf ) prevalence to <1% ) . Results of the midterm evaluation study showed very significant and rapid reduction of mf prevalence and density with 11 out of the 12 districts having mf prevalence <1% . Relatively low LF baseline prevalence and effective integrated MDA for onchocerciasis and LF have led to rapid reduction in LF prevalence .
Genomic survey data , such as those obtained from 16S rRNA gene sequencing , are subject to underappreciated mathematical difficulties that can undermine standard data analysis techniques . We show that these effects can lead to erroneous correlations among taxa within the human microbiome despite the statistical significance of the associations . To overcome these difficulties , we developed SparCC; a novel procedure , tailored to the properties of genomic survey data , that allow inference of correlations between genes or species . We use SparCC to elucidate networks of interaction among microbial species living in or on the human body .
For many successful pathogens , their surfaces must be able to adapt to different host environments , or to avoid host immune components , to establish infection . Bacterial pathogens , for example , are known to modify their cell walls , which are comprised largely of peptidoglycan . Our study focuses on peptidoglycan modifications by Streptococcus pneumoniae , which initiates interaction with its host by colonizing the mucosal surface of the upper respiratory tract . Two proteins ( PgdA and Adr ) that modify the cell wall of S . pneumoniae have each been associated with resistance to lysozyme , which cleaves peptidoglycan and is one of the most abundant antimicrobial factors in the human respiratory tract . Using defined bacterial mutants together with mice that express or lack lysozyme , we show that the full resistance to lysozyme requires modifications by both proteins . These cell wall modifications each come at a significant fitness cost to the bacterium . This fitness cost , however , is outweighed by the benefits of lysozyme resistance in vivo . Our study , therefore , demonstrates the relationship between a bacterial pathogen and a host defense mechanism that imparts a substantial selective pressure on organisms that colonize the mucosal surface .
Dengue manifestations may vary from asymptomatic to potentially fatal complications . With an increasing number of Dengue Hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) and fatal cases , the availability of new approaches useful for cases confirmation plays an important role for the disease surveillance . The diagnosis of fatal cases in frozen and fixed tissues from autopsies can be determined by techniques such as viral RT-PCR , in situ hybridization , viral proteins detection by immunohistochemistry and NS3 specific immunostaining . We aimed to assess for the first time the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate DENV antigens in human tissue specimens . The highest sensitivity was obtained by a rapid ICT which was also the most sensitive in liver , lung , kidney , brain , spleen and thymus . Despite a number of studies demonstrating the usefulness of DENV NS1 antigen detection by different ELISAs in plasma and/or sera of dengue patients , no research has been done previously to demonstrate NS1 presence in tissues of fatal dengue cases . Moreover , the application of NS1 kits to demonstrate the presence of DENV may provide a better understanding of viral tropism in fatal cases and may be useful for studies of pathogenesis in vivo and in experimental animals .
This study represents the largest comprehensive molecular analysis of ethnically defined newly diagnosed treatment naïve Multiple Myeloma ( MM ) . We revealed significant differences in mutation frequencies for important cancer genes between AA and CA MM . This study provides support for interrogating diverse tumor cohorts to best understand tumor genomics across populations .
Cancer is the consequence of an evolutionary process , which lasts several decades , is impossible to observe during most of its time , and only becomes apparent in late stages . We use mathematical modeling to shed light on the evolutionary dynamics of cancer by studying the accumulation of passenger mutations . We show that the frequencies obtained by passenger mutations depend strongly on the ratio of death and birth rates of cancer cells . We use genetic data of colorectal cancer to estimate this important quantity in vivo . We estimate the size of the cancer cell population that was present when a specific mutation first emerged . Our theory informs the analysis of cancer sequencing data and the phylogenetic reconstruction of cancer evolution .
Huntington's Disease is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with protein aggregation in neurons . The aggregates formed are thought to lead to neurotoxicity and cell death . Understanding the molecular structure of these aggregates may lead to strategies to inhibit aggregation . Exon 1 ( XN1 ) of the huntingtin protein is critical for aggregate formation . This polypeptide has a naturally occurring polyglutamine sequence ( polyQ ) , which is elongated in patients afflicted with the disease . The polyQ region in XN1 has several flanking sequences with distinct physicochemical properties , including the N-terminal 17 residues , two polyproline regions , and C-terminal sequences , that may affect its overall structure and aggregation . What is the overall structure of XN1 , and what structural effects do the neighboring sequences have on each other and polyQ ? We address these questions by studying computational models of various polypeptides , including XN1 and three mutant forms associated with Huntington's Disease . Certain neighboring sequences are found to inhibit aggregation , while others may be recruited by polyQ to form aggregates . Our results suggest the role that the flanking sequences may play in XN1 aggregation and may subsequently guide future structural models of XN1 aggregation .
Human bodies are complex ecological systems in which various microbial organisms and viruses interact with each other and with the human host . The Human Microbiome Project ( HMP ) has resulted in >700 datasets of shotgun metagenomic sequences , from which we can learn about the compositions and functions of human-associated microbial communities . CRISPR/Cas systems are a widespread class of adaptive immune systems in bacteria and archaea , providing acquired immunity against foreign nucleic acids: CRISPR/Cas defense pathways involve integration of viral- or plasmid-derived DNA segments into CRISPR arrays ( forming spacers between repeated structural sequences ) , and expression of short crRNAs from these single repeat-spacer units , to generate interference to future invading foreign genomes . Powered by an effective computational approach ( the targeted assembly approach for CRISPR ) , our analysis of CRISPR arrays in the HMP datasets provides the very first global view of bacterial immunity systems in human-associated microbial communities . The great diversity of CRISPR spacers we observed among different body sites , in different individuals , and in single individuals over time , indicates the impact of subtle niche differences on the evolution of CRISPR defenses and indicates the key role of bacteriophage ( and plasmids ) in shaping human microbial communities .
Daily ( circadian ) rhythms in behavior and physiology allow organisms to adapt to periodic cues such as light and temperature associated with the rotation of the earth . Subsets of molecular components of the internal clock that drive these rhythms , as well as effector genes for behavioral outputs , also exhibit rhythmic expression in many organisms . While circadian rhythms in behavior have previously been described in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , no transcriptional rhythms or clock genes have been identified , leaving open the question of the nature of the clock in this organism . Here , we identify light- and temperature-entrained cycling genes in C . elegans via genome-wide transcriptional profiling . Transcripts showing circadian regulation ( including expression with a 24-h period maintained upon removal of the entraining stimulus ) and temperature compensation were identified . Light and temperature appear to entrain independent sets of genes . We also identify large sets of light- or temperature-driven genes . Mutations in a channel gene previously implicated in sensory transduction in a small set of sensory neurons abolish entrainment of gene expression by environmental signals . This work demonstrates the presence of circadian transcriptional rhythms in C . elegans , and provides the foundation for future investigations into the underlying mechanisms .
The two members of each pair of homologous chromosomes in diploid eukaryotes are usually heterozygous for many single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) . Mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes can lead to loss of heterozygosity of these SNPs . Although mitotic recombination can be beneficial as a source of genetic diversity , loss of wild-type alleles of tumor suppressor genes in heterozygous individuals is an important contributor to carcinogenesis . In the current study , we map recombination events in yeast strains that have mutations in RAD3 that result in a strong hyper-recombination phenotype . RAD3 ( a homolog of the essential human XPD gene ) has roles in both transcription and nucleotide excision repair . We find that the rad3 mutants have a 100-fold elevated rate of crossovers throughout the yeast genome , and these events are non-randomly associated with regions of the yeast genome that are fragile , even in wild-type cells . We also show that most of the recombination events between homologous chromosomes are a consequence of the repair of two sister chromatids that are broken at the same position , similar to the types of events that occur in wild-type cells .
During persistent H . pylori infection , the local gastric milieu is constantly altered by host responses and inflammation fluxes . As adhesion is crucial to maintain infection , appropriate adaptation of bacterial adherence properties is required to meet these environmental fluctuations . H . pylori uses the SabA protein to bind glycan receptors present on inflamed stomach mucosa . SabA expression can be turned on or off via known genetic mechanisms; however , how fine-tuning of SabA expression occurs to match changes in receptor levels is still unknown . The H . pylori genome encodes few trans-acting regulators but has numerous simple sequence repeats ( SSR ) , i . e . hypermutable DNA segments . Here , we have deciphered a mechanism where a T-repeat tract , located in the sabA promoter region , affects SabA expression . The mechanism involves structural alterations of the promoter DNA that affects interaction of the RNA polymerase , without input from known trans-acting regulators . This mechanism is likely not unique for SabA or to H . pylori , but also applicable to other pathogens with high abundance of SSRs and limited set of transcription factors . Our findings contribute to understanding of the important bacterial-host interplay , and to mechanisms that generate heterogeneous populations of best-fit clones , i . e . stochastic switching .
Over 120 types of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) have been identified , and approximately one-third of these infect epithelial cells of the genital mucosa . A subset of HPV types are the causative agents of cervical and other anogenital cancers . The infectious life cycle of HPV is dependent on differentiation of the host epithelial cell , with viral genome amplification and virion production restricted to differentiated suprabasal cells . While normal keratinocytes exit the cell cycle upon differentiation , HPV-positive suprabasal cells are able to re-enter S-phase to mediate productive replication . HPV induces an ATM-dependent DNA damage response in differentiating cells that is essential for viral genome amplification . Our studies describe an important mechanism by which human papillomaviruses activate a member of the JAK/STAT innate immune signaling pathway to induce the ATM DNA damage pathway . This is necessary for differentiation-dependent productive viral replication . HPVs must suppress the transcription of one member of the JAK/STAT pathway , STAT-1 , while at the same time activating STAT-5 to regulate genome amplification in suprabasal cells . The E7 protein activates STAT-5 leading to induction of ATM phosphorylation through the PPARγ pathway . Our study identifies important links between innate immune signaling , the ATM DNA damage pathway and productive HPV replication that may lead to the characterization of new targets for the development of therapeutics to treat HPV-induced infections .
Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi is the cause of typhoid fever and infects over 21 million individuals and causes 200 , 000 deaths each year . With adequate treatment , most patients recover from their acute stage of illness and clear infection . However , a small percentage of S . Typhi infected individuals develop a chronic but asymptomatic infection in the biliary tract that can persist for decades . Since S . Typhi is a human-restricted pathogen , chronic carriers may act as reservoirs of infection . Correctly identifying and treating asymptomatic chronic carriers could be critical for ultimate control of typhoid fever . Using an immunoscreening technique called in vivo-induced antigen technology ( IVIAT ) , we have identified potential biomarkers unique to S . Typhi chronic carriers . Further evaluation of these antigens could lead to the development of improved diagnostic assays to detect asymptomatic S . Typhi carriers in typhoid endemic zones , and to an improved understanding of the pathogenesis of S . Typhi in the chronic carrier state .
We discovered a new epigenetic phenomenon we called trans-reactivation . We found that genes , unable to produce a functional coding transcript , but with the potential of transcribing other RNA’s within their gene body , strongly reactivate the transcription of a wildtype copy of the same gene silenced by heterochomatin . This new epigenetic phenomenon is heritable , relies on the presence of diffusible RNAs able to carry and transfer epigenetic information and is affected by mutations in genes involved in Post-Transcriptional Gene Silencing . Our data strongly suggest that homologous non-coding RNA can reactivate the expression of genes silenced by heterochromatin , thus defining a new unpredicted level of gene expression control in the context of heterochromatic genes .
Hematophagous animals express a repertoire of anti-hemostatics which target enzymes involved in proteolytic reactions . These molecules are present in the salivary glands or midguts and target components of both coagulation and complement cascades , in addition to cells involved in hemostasis and immune system . These inhibitors are critical for development and survival of mosquitoes and ticks , and might also contribute to parasite transmission and completion of their life cycle . While much is known regarding sialomics and functional genomics of the salivary glands components , comparatively less information has been gained over the years with respect to midgut anti-hemostatics and their mechanisms of action . The vector of Babesiosis and Q fever , Rhipicephalus microplus , expresses Boophilin , a midgut thrombin inhibitor with low specificity , which contributes to tick development . Notably , we reported that Boophilin targets FXIa , kallikrein , and neutrophil enzymes elastase and cathepsin G , which play a direct or indirect role in the contact pathway of the coagulation cascade . Boophilin also abrogates platelet aggregation by cathepsin G and plasmin , and attenuates Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor cleavage by elastase . In vivo , Boophilin inhibits thrombosis and promotes bleeding in mice . It is concluded that Boophilin redundantly down-modulates host biochemical reactions involved in mounting and sustaining pro-inflammatory events which are detrimental to tick development .
Mucosal histology plays a key role in the diagnosis , characterization and propagation of a host of gastrointestinal diseases , and the development of computational models capable of producing spatial architecture comparable to histology will enhance the evaluation of hypotheses for those diseases . Inflammation is a significant factor in the pathogenesis of a series of gastrointestinal diseases , and affects the maintenance of the mucosal architecture by morphogenic pathways . We have developed the Spatially Explicit General-purpose Model of Enteric Tissue ( SEGMEnT ) to investigate the behavior of enteric epithelial tissue as influenced by inflammation . SEGMEnT integrates cellular and molecular pathways governing morphogenesis and inflammation to generate a variety of pathophysiological processes from a common platform and knowledge base . Beyond reproducing healthy and disease ileal mucosal dynamics , SEGMEnT provides insight into a range of clinically relevant cellular-molecular mechanisms , including a novel putative role for Phosphotase and tensin homolog/phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PTEN/PI3K ) as a key point of crosstalk between enteric inflammation and morphogenesis , the protective role of enterocyte sloughing in enteric ischemia-reperfusion and the mechanism of chronic low level inflammation as a driver for colonic metaplasia . These results suggest that SEGMEnT can serve as an integrating platform for the study of inflammation in gastrointestinal disease .
Traditional vector control methods have been showing limited success in managing arboviruses disease outbreaks in endemic areas . The endosymbiont bacterium Wolbachia was microinjected on the mosquito Aedes aegypti and later showed the ability to block dengue , chikungunya and Zika viruses’ development on vector body . Nowadays , Wolbachia-infected Ae . aegypti has been deployed in twelve countries as an attempt to mitigate arboviruses transmission . Herein , we report the failure of Wolbachia releases on a suburban isolated district of Rio de Janeiro/Brazil . For the first time , we demonstrated that the insecticide resistance profile of released and wild mosquitoes is a critical feature for achieving Wolbachia invasion . Special consideration must be given to avoid releasing susceptible mosquitoes where native populations are resistant , since local householders might rely on domestic use of spraying insecticides ( mostly pyrethroids ) to protect themselves from mosquito bites .
Vaccinia virus is the archetype member of the Poxviridae family . This virus encodes ~200 genes that contribute to viral propagation in the cytoplasm and coordinate restriction of the host antiviral response through mechanisms that are incompletely understood . Notably , the B1 kinase inhibits a highly conserved antiviral protein , allowing viral DNA replication to proceed in the cytoplasm . To better understand B1 driven signaling , we used experimental evolution of a B1 deletion virus to identify viral genes within shared signaling pathways . Herein we describe our success in isolating adapted viruses and the discovery of a genetic link between B1 and the related B12 gene . Thus this study illustrates the utility of experimental evolution to discover novel digenic relationships . Interestingly , we also elucidated an unexpected regulatory intersection between the B1 kinase and B12 pseudokinase that likely masked discovery of the repressive function of B12 during previous studies of this factor . As kinase-pseudokinase protein families are abundant in many forms of life , the genetic and functional relationship between B1 and B12 that we uncovered is likely of broad biological relevance . Further investigation of individual genes and gene families in multigenic knockout backgrounds may uncover similar masked phenotypes in a broad range of model systems .
Small proteins and peptides have important biomedical implications with their ability to penetrate cells , disrupt cell membranes , or form—potentially neurotoxic—fibrillar aggregates . It is rather intriguing that the same peptide can take part in all these processes depending on its environment . Hence it is important to understand how the environment guides the peptide from a disordered state to an alpha-helix or beta-sheet . By studying two different peptides with computer simulations , we find that one clue to this puzzle is the state of the allegedly disordered molecule in water , which is in fact characterized by a vast number of partially folded short-lived conformations . We investigate how interaction with macroscopic interfaces affects this multi-state conformational ensemble by promoting an alpha-helix over the other conformers . Furthermore , we show that association of two peptides can also be viewed as an interaction with an interface—a molecular interface . We show that the impact of macroscopic and molecular interfaces strongly depends on their ability to enforce partitioning of hydrophobic and hydrophilic residues . The effect gets more subtle as soon as macroscopic partitioning is coupled with peptide association where two interfaces compete: the relative balance of opposing forces determines aggregate stability and structure .
Herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens that persist in the host for life . Two human herpesviruses ( HHV-6A and HHV-6B ) can integrate their genetic material into the telomeres of host chromosomes . Integration also occurs in germ cells , resulting in individuals that harbor the virus in every single cells of their body and transmit it to their offspring , a condition that affects about 1% of the human population . We set to elucidate the integration mechanism that allows these viruses to maintain their genome in infected cells . Intriguingly , HHV-6A , HHV-6B and several other herpesviruses harbor telomere sequences at the end of their genome . Removal of these sequences in the genome of HHV-6A revealed that the viral telomeres are crucial for the integration of this human herpesvirus . In addition , we demonstrate that the telomere sequences at the right and left end of the virus genome play different roles in the integration process . Taken together , our data sheds light on the integration mechanism that allows HHV-6A to integrate into somatic cells and to enter into the germ line .
Poxviruses are arguably the largest viruses infecting humans . The unique brick-shape architecture of their infectious virus particles sets them apart from any other viral family in the virosphere . The infectious particles are produced through a series of assembly steps where intermediates of distinct composition and architecture can be identified . In particular , atypical crescent-shaped precursors of immature particles have generated much controversy regarding their structure and the origin of their lipidic membrane . Here , we used a combination of X-ray crystallography and electron microscopy to investigate the role of a crucial structural component of viral crescents called D13 . Our atomic structure of D13 firmly establishes an evolutionary link between poxviruses and a group of large DNA viruses . In addition , we show that , when tethered to artificial membranes , this protein assembles into a scaffold analogous to that in immature particles . The resulting pseudo-atomic model of the honeycomb lattice reveals similarities to the mimivirus , which suggests that giant viral shells use common assembly principles . Overall , our findings reveal that poxviruses utilize an ancestral lipid-remodeling strategy common to DNA viruses infecting all kingdoms of life . They also provide a basis for structure-based design of assembly inhibitors against poxvirus pathogens .
The plant hormone auxin is pivotal for root system development . For instance , its local biosynthesis is essential for root formation and growth in the dicotyledon model Arabidopsis . Thus , increasing interference with auxin biosynthesis results in increasingly shorter roots , partly because of reduced cell elongation . In this study , we isolated a hypomorphic mutant in an auxin biosynthesis pathway enzyme in the monocotyledon model Brachypodium . Counterintuitive , this mutant displays a dramatically longer seminal root , because mature cells are thinner , more elongated and therefore more anisotropic than in wild type . Interestingly , this phenotype can be mimicked in wild type by pharmacological interference with production of a key auxin biosynthesis intermediate , but also by interference with the biosynthesis of another plant hormone , ethylene . The latter controls auxin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis roots . Surprisingly however , auxin levels in the Brachypodium mutant are elevated rather than reduced , because of a simultaneous up-regulation of the second , rate-limiting step of the pathway . Ethylene normally represses this second step , suggesting an inverted regulatory relation between the two hormones as compared to Arabidopsis . Our results point to a complex homeostatic crosstalk between auxin and ethylene in Brachypodium roots , which is fundamentally different from Arabidopsis and might be conserved in other monocotyledons .
Species diverge by mutations that change protein structure or protein regulation . While the evolution of protein sequence was studied extensively , much less is known about the divergence of gene expression . To better understand the process of gene expression evolution , we characterized the early genomic response of yeast cells to selection for high gene expression . Notably , the response to selection was strongly dependent on the organization of the gene promoter: genes whose promoters had a pronounced nucleosome-free region ( NFR ) primarily duplicated the chromosome containing the gene of interest , while genes whose promoters lacked a pronounced NFR adapted by trans mutations not involving duplications . Further , when selection was removed , the former ( but not the later ) evolved strains reverted rapidly to wild-type expression levels , consistent with their lower diversity between species . Together , our study provides strong support to the idea that physiological regulation impacts the evolutionary path and suggests that , by regulating promoter nucleosomes , cells can regulate the response to selection and control the long-term stability of the selected changes .
Transcription factors of the NF-κB/Rel family are critical for the proliferation of lymphocytes and the expression of genes that mediate inflammatory and immune responses . They are often aberrantly activated in human cancers , especially leukemia , where they confer survival and proliferation advantages . Through the study of the trans-activator/oncoprotein , Tax , of the human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) , we have found that persistent and potentially oncogenic activation of NF-κB triggers a defense mechanism that commits cells into senescence , an irreversible state of cell cycle arrest . This checkpoint is turned on by hyper-activated p65/RelA and is mediated by two cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors , p21 and p27 , in a p53- and pRb-independent manner . It is often impaired in cancer cells with constitutively active NF-κB . Our results anticipate that the anti-sense protein of HTLV-1 , HBZ , which down-regulates NF-κB and HTLV-1 trans-activation by Tax , would mitigate or prevent Tax-induced senescence . This prediction has been borne out experimentally . Thus , Tax promotes robust HTLV-1 replication , potent NF-κB activation and senescence , while HBZ attenuates Tax-driven viral replication and NF-κB activation to allow proliferation of infected cells and persistent infection . Finally , our data support the notion that inactivation of the senescence checkpoint facilitates chronic NF-κB hyper-activation , a critical step in leukemia development .
Reasoning , learning , and creativity are hallmarks of human intelligence . These abilities involve the frontal lobe of the brain , but it remains unclear how the frontal lobes function in uncertain or open-ended situations . We propose here a computational model of human executive function that integrates multiple processes during decision-making , such as expectedness of uncertainty , task switching , and reinforcement learning . The model was tested in behavioral experiments and accounts for human decisions and their variations across individuals . The model reveals that executive function is capable of monitoring three or four concurrent behavioral strategies and infers online strategies' ability to predict action outcomes . If one strategy appears to reliably predict action outcomes , then it is chosen and possibly adjusted; otherwise a new strategy is tentatively formed , probed , and chosen instead . Thus , human frontal function has a monitoring capacity limited to three or four behavioral strategies . The results support a model of frontal executive function that explains the role and limitations of human reasoning , learning , and creative abilities in decision-making and adaptive behavior .
A driving ambition of medical systems biology is to advance our understanding of molecular processes that drive the progression of complex diseases such as Type 2 Diabetes and cardiovascular disease . This insight is essential to enable the development of therapies to effectively treat diseases . A challenging task is to investigate the long-term effects of a treatment , in order to establish its applicability and to identify potential side effects . As such , there is a growing need for novel approaches to support this research . Here , we present a new computational approach to identify treatment effects . We make use of a computational model of the biological system . The model is used to describe the experimental data obtained during different stages of the treatment . To incorporate the long-term/progressive adaptations in the system , induced by changes in gene and protein expression , the model is iteratively updated . The approach was employed to identify metabolic adaptations induced by a potential anti-atherosclerotic and anti-diabetic drug target . Our approach identifies the molecular events that should be studied in more detail to establish the mechanistic basis of treatment outcome . New biological insight was obtained concerning the metabolism of cholesterol , which was in turn experimentally validated .
The movement control of the brain excels in the seamless coordination of our multi-segmented limbs and bodies and in this respect the brain widely outperforms the most advanced technical systems . So far , however , there is little knowledge about the neuronal circuitry mechanisms by which this coordination could be achieved . The present paper makes a synthesis of some recent findings of cerebellar neuronal circuitry functions and spinocerebellar systems to introduce a novel hypothesis of how the cerebellar and spinal cord neuronal networks together establish signals that form a basis for coordination control in the mammalian central nervous system . The hypothesis takes into account some recent , surprising findings about cerebellar granule cell function and explains some long-standing enigmas concerning the structure of and information mediated by the spinocerebellar pathways . It describes some interesting parallels between the spinocerebellar network and Artificial Neural Networks ( ANNs ) , and capitalizes on some of the major conclusions from ANN studies to explain the biological observations .
Small , non-coding , RNAs such as microRNAs ( miRNA ) of length 18–24 nucleotide are reported in wide range of organisms and known to play a determinative role in regulation of various cellular processes . They have also reported to have regulatory roles during pathogen infection , maturation and transmission . Chikungunya virus is an important alphavirus transmitted through two important vectors , Aedes aegypti and Ae . albopictus . While Ae . aegypti has been the preferred vector for transmission of this virus , recently , Ae . albopictus has gained notoriety for disease transmission . Using Illumina platform , we sequenced the small RNA population an Aedes albopictus cell line infected with chikungunya virus . We studied the expression modulation of miRNAs upon CHIKV infection and found distinct set of miRNAs regulated in Aedes upon CHIKV infection . We further predicted the targets of these miRNAs and performed pathway analysis of these targets . The cellular functional targets of some of these miRNAs overlapped suggesting aggressive participation of the targeted pathways in establishing CHIKV infection .
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) , caused by the tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus , is a zoonotic infection that occurs worldwide . The adult parasite resides in the small intestines of dogs and the cyst form can develop in the liver and lungs of both humans and livestock . CE causes medical , veterinary , and economic losses in endemic areas . However , data on the economic consequences of CE are lacking . The present study estimated the monetary burden of CE in Iran . We used epidemiological and economic information to estimate direct and indirect costs of human and livestock CE in the country . Costs associated with human CE included the costs of surgery and hospital services in addition to lost wages due to work absenteeism during hospitalization and recovery . Costs associated with CE in livestock included losses due to condemnation of livers and lungs during carcass inspections , decreased carcass weight , reproductive losses , and reductions in milk and other animal products . We estimated the overall annual cost of CE in Iran at US$232 . 25 million , with the cost of the disease estimated to be approximately 0 . 03% of the country's gross domestic product . Implementation of a control program is necessary to reduce the economic burden of CE on Iran .
Mouse polyomavirus ( MPyV ) is a small 5 . 3kb circular double-stranded DNA virus capable of causing tumors in a variety of tissues in immunocompromised mice . It has been a subject of study for over 60 years , yielding insights into a number of processes including tumorigenesis , cell cycle signaling , and transformation . This study serves to provide a global view of the MPyV infection by utilizing Illumina sequencing to observe changes in total RNA from both the virus and the host cell as well as applying new methods to more directly confirm the extent of A-to-I editing of viral RNA by host ADAR enzymes . This allows for a simultaneous observation of both host and viral transcriptional changes that occur as a result of early gene expression and the viral switch from early to late genes that occurs coincident with the initiation of DNA replication .
Marathon running , historically perceived as testing the physiologic limits of human endurance , has become increasingly popular even among recreational runners . Of those runners who test their endurance by racing the marathon distance , however , more than two in five report ‘hitting the wall , ’ the rapid onset of severe fatigue and inability to maintain a high-intensity pace , resulting from the near-complete depletion of carbohydrate stores in the leg muscles and liver . An apparent paradox of long-distance running is that even the leanest athletes store enough fat to power back-to-back marathons , yet small carbohydrate reservoirs can nevertheless catastrophically limit performance in endurance exercise . In this study I develop and validate a mathematical model that facilitates computation of personalized estimates of the distances at which runners will exhaust their carbohydrate stores while running at selected paces . In addition , I provide a systematic approach to estimating personalized maximum speeds at which runners can safely complete a marathon , based on accessible physiologic parameters such as heart rate and running speed . This analysis provides a quantitative basis for improving the safety and optimizing the performance of endurance runners , evaluating midrace fueling requirements , and estimating limits of performance in human endurance running , for elite and recreational runners alike .
Toxoplasmosis is caused by the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii . The parasite is found throughout the world . When humans are infected , few have symptoms because a healthy immune system usually prevents the parasite from causing illness . Nevertheless , cases of severe disease in otherwise healthy individuals have been observed . These cases are usually a result of infection with less common atypical strains of Toxoplasma . Factors associated with virulence in the atypical strains are not well understood . Here , we infected host cells with 29 different strains of Toxoplasma , and performed high-throughput RNA sequencing of both host cells and parasites . We found significant differences in gene expression profiles between strains . Host cell transcriptional response also varied substantially depending on the infecting strain . Specifically , we found that a small group of atypical strains are able to induce production of type I interferons , which are immunomodulatory cytokines . Interferon production is a result of the elimination of internalized parasites through a novel killing mechanism . The dataset we generated is a valuable tool for identification of host cell targets of Toxoplasma secreted effectors and can contribute to our understanding of why certain Toxoplasma strains are more prone to cause severe disease in humans .
The rapid evolution of most positive-sense RNA viruses enables them to escape immune surveillance and adapt to new hosts . Genetic variation arises due to their error-prone RNA polymerases and by recombination of viral genomes in co-infected cells . We have developed a novel approach to analyse the poorly understood mechanism of recombination using a poliovirus model system . We characterised the initial viable recombinants and demonstrate the majority are longer than genome length due to an imprecise crossover event that duplicates part of the genome . These viruses are unfit , but rapidly lose the duplicated material and regain full fitness upon serial passage , a process we term resolution . We show this is a replicative recombination process by modifying the fidelity of the viral polymerase , or replication complex coalescence , using methods that have no influence on a previously reported , less efficient , non-replicative recombination mechanism . We conclude that recombination is a biphasic process involving separate generation and resolution events . These new insights into an important evolutionary mechanism have implications for our understanding of virus evolution through partial genome duplication , they suggest ways in which recombination might be modified and provides an approach that may be exploited to analyse recombination in other RNA viruses .
Adipose tissues ( ATs ) can be divided into three distinct types: white fat ( or white AT [WAT] ) , brown fat , and beige fat . Growing evidence suggests that the development of beige fat cells in WAT , also called browning or beiging of WAT , might protect against obesity and improve systemic metabolism . Norepinephrine ( NE ) -induced β-adrenergic signaling is a major regulator of adaptive thermogenesis ( a process of generating heat under conditions of physical activity ) and leads to activation of protein kinase A ( PKA ) and phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) -responsive element binding protein ( Creb ) , thereby controlling the expression of thermogenic genes . In this study , we found that the catecholamine transporter , mouse organic cation transporter 3 ( Oct3 ) , is highly expressed in WAT , where it mediates NE uptake in the white fat cells in vivo and in vitro . Removing Oct3 in the fat cells leads to enhanced lipid breakdown , increased thermogenesis , and browning of WAT when stimulated by NE or cold exposure via activation of the β-adrenergic receptor ( β-AR ) /PKA/Creb pathway . In humans , reduced functional alleles of OCT3 are also associated with increased basal metabolic rate ( BMR ) . Our results indicate that Oct3 is an essential regulator of NE recycling and the beiging of WAT .
HP1 proteins are transcriptional regulators frequently associated with gene silencing , a phenomenon involving masking of promoter DNA by dense chromatin . Owing to their chromo-domain , these proteins can read and bind an epigenetic mark that on many non-expressed genes is present on histone H3 at the surface of the nucleosome ( the fundamental packing unit of chromatin ) . However , the binding to this mark does not explain the repressing activity of HP1 proteins . Here , we show that these proteins can establish a second contact with histone H3 , independently of the epigenetic mark . This second contact site is located inside the nucleosome , in a position likely to be inaccessible . Interestingly , this site is also contacted by a subunit of the SWI/SNF complex and this contact is required for the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling catalyzed by SWI/SNF . We provide evidence suggesting that HP1 proteins use the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling to gain access to the contact site inside the nucleosome and to prevent further remodeling by competing with SWI/SNF for binding at this position . These observations lead us to suggest that HP1 proteins function as gatekeepers on promoters , detecting and stopping unwanted exposure of internal nucleosomal sites .
An RNA molecule is made up of a linear sequence of nucleotides , which form pairwise interactions that define its folded three-dimensional structure; the particular structure largely depends on the specific sequence . These base-pairing interactions are stabilizing , and the RNA will tend to fold in a particular way to maximize stability . Consider some nucleotide sequence that optimally folds into some structure in isolation; if this sequence is now embedded inside a larger sequence , then either the original structure will be a robust subcomponent of the larger folded structure , or it will be disrupted due to new interactions between the original sequence and the surrounding sequence . We explore this property of context robustness of structure and in particular define the property of “self containment” to describe intrinsic context robustness—i . e . , the tendency for certain sequences to be structurally robust in many different sequence contexts . Self containment turns out to be a strong characteristic of a class of RNAs called microRNAs , whose biogenesis process depends on the maintenance of structural robustness . This finding will be useful in future efforts to characterize novel miRNAs , as well as in understanding the regulation and evolution of noncoding functional RNAs as modular units .
Diseases caused by pathogens affect most plants in their natural environment . Plants combat the majority of these intruders by activating elaborate immune responses , which typically result in a disease resistance response . Nevertheless , pathogens have typically evolved ways to bypass plant defenses , and susceptibility to pathogens re-appears . In addition to this occasional immune failure of the host , other immune-response independent processes allow further ingress of the invading pathogen , and contribute to plant pathogen susceptibility . We identified four transcription factors ( TFs ) that are required for effective disease resistance to fungal necrotrophs . These TFs regulate critical aspects of disease resistance/susceptibility to necrotrophs without interfering with immune signaling . Mutant plants defective in any of these four TFs commonly induce about 80 genes , with a substantial proportion encoding peptides with secretion signals that are described to act as local signals ( peptide hormones ) during cell-to-cell communication , and that function in the plant-specific paracrine/autocrine system . We further show that many of these peptide hormones affect disease susceptibility of the host to necrotrophs . Our findings have thus uncovered many new factors that underpin immune-response independent processes of plant disease susceptibility .
Human fertility is an inefficient process whereby 30% of pregnancies cease before the second trimester . The uterine environment plays a critical role in establishing and maintaining a successful pregnancy . Here , we show that the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1 ( FOXO1 ) increases in the nuclei of endometrial epithelia of both human and mice during the time of embryo implantation , and thus , hypothesize that FOXO1 plays an important role in governing uterine receptivity . To test this hypothesis , we ablated Foxo1 in the mouse uterus . These mice were infertile due to defective implantation and invasion . The mutant mice demonstrated increased PGR signaling and retained PGR expression in the endometrial epithelia at the window of receptivity . By generating mice with deregulated uterine epithelial Pgr expression , we further demonstrated that constitutive expression of epithelial PGR during the receptive period inhibited the expression of FOXO1 in the uterine epithelium . Such reciprocal expression of PGR and FOXO1 , similar to a Yin-and-Yang balance , was conserved in human endometrium during the proliferative and secretory phase , suggesting FOXO1 gain and PGR loss in the uterine epithelium is a marker and regulator of endometrial receptivity necessary for the establishment of pregnancy .
A better understanding of spatial and temporal variation in dengue risk is invaluable since it guides intervention strategies and facilitates effective health resource allocation . Transmission of dengue depends on the distribution and abundance of the mosquito vectors which are sensitive to climatic and environmental factors including temperature , rainfall , and population density . By modelling dengue-climate relationships , the burden of dengue can be estimated in locations where data on transmission are not available permitting identification of high-risk areas . This reveals the extent of under-reporting in dengue surveillance data in resource-limited countries which is essential to estimating the changing burden of dengue .
Exploration is a central component of human and animal behavior that has been studied in rodents for almost a century . It is presently one of the main models for studying the interface between behavior , genetics , drugs , and the brain . Until recently the exploration of an open field by rodents has been considered to be largely stochastic . Lately , this behavior is being gradually deciphered , revealing reference places called home bases , from which the animals perform roundtrips into the environment , tracing well-trodden paths whose features contribute to our understanding of navigation , locational memory , cognition- , and emotion-related behavior . Using advanced computational tools we discover so-called knots , preferred places visited sporadically by mice . Mice perform in these places twists and turns . The measurement of speed on the way in and out of knots reveals that they are attractive for the mice . Knot formation is enhanced by stress , suggesting that stress-related arousal assigns these locales with a special significance that is reinstated by subsequent visits to them . The twists and turns could provide the mouse with multiple views that turn knots into navigational landmarks as well as with rich vestibular input that might improve the perception and subsequent interpretation of the visual input .
Emerging resistance to antibiotics led to an inglorious revival of infectious diseases . Furthermore , in the past 30 years , only one novel anti-fungal target has been discovered which was used to develop therapies against . Therefore pathogen-selective targets and knowledge about possible resistance determinants are of utmost importance to successfully develop new medicines . Here we describe the identification of anti-fungal ergolines , targeting the lipid transfer protein Sec14p , and inhibiting the growth of two clinical isolates of the pathogenic fungus Cryptococcus neoformans . Both , compound and target represent attractive points for further investigations: Sec14p as it differs significantly from the human homolog and as it has been implicated in fungal viability and pathogenicity , and , ergolines as they are used in the clinic against a variety of diseases demonstrating both efficacy and safety .
Schistosomiasis is a chronic and debilitating disease that occurs in tropical and subtropical areas . The disease is caused by an infection with a parasitic worm and affects over 200 million people . The treatment and control of schistosomiasis relies on a single drug , praziquantel . This drug is increasingly used , and hence there is mounting concern about the development of resistance to praziquantel . Here we report that mefloquine , a marketed drug for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria , shows promising antischistosomal properties in laboratory studies with mice . When mefloquine was orally administered at a single dose of 200 or 400 mg/kg to mice infected with young or adult stages of the parasitic worm Schistosoma mansoni or S . japonicum , we found very high worm burden reductions . We also found high worm burden reductions when mefloquine enantiomers were given to mice infected with adult S . mansoni . Further studies are needed because our results might be of public health relevance . Indeed , mefloquine is widely used for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria , often in areas where both malaria and schistosomiasis co-exist . In such areas , it might be possible that the use of mefloquine against malaria reduces the burden of schistosomiasis .
Podoconiosis is a geochemical neglected tropical disease , which causes massive swelling of the lower legs and feet . Although podoconiosis is one of the major causes of lower leg swelling worldwide , understanding of the geographical distribution of the disease is incomplete . In Cameroon , few studies have been conducted , and these have indicated varied and localized distribution of the disease . We conducted this countrywide mapping survey to determine the prevalence and spatial distribution of podoconiosis in Cameroon . We undertook nationwide mapping of podoconiosis in Cameroon by surveying 10 , 178 individuals from 4 , 603 households , in 76 communities . During the survey , individuals with lymphedema underwent a rapid-format antigen antibody test , and a thick blood film ( TBF ) for microscopic examination , as a confirmatory tool for detecting W . bancrofti micro filarial . Peripheral night blood and parasite DNA detection was used to exclude lymphatic filariasis , and a clinical history and physical examination was conducted to diagnosis podoconiosis . The overall prevalence of podoconiosis was found to be 0 . 5% . At least one case of podoconiosis was found in every region of Cameroon except Adamawa , where in the two surveyed villages no cases of podoconiosis were identified . Our investigation has demonstrated low prevalence but almost nationwide distribution of podoconiosis in Cameroon . Designing a podoconiosis control program is a vital next step . A health system response to the burden of podoconiosis is important , through case surveillance and morbidity management services .
Aging is frequently associated with a decline in the size of stem cell pools , but little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms underlying this process . Here , we report that Notch signaling is increased in GSCs as they age , and this promotes their removal from the niche in an E-cadherin dependent manner . In contrast to GSCs , niche cells exhibit decreased Notch signaling with age; Notch signaling in these cells controls niche integrity , and consequently GSC retention . While Notch signaling in the niche is regulated by insulin signaling , Notch signaling in GSCs is controlled by Sex lethal , an RNA-binding protein . These results imply that Notch signaling is regulated in a cell-type-dependent manner , and coordination between GSCs and their niche facilitates the removal of cells from the niche during the aging process .
The eight human herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens associated with a wide spectrum of disease , and are grouped into three families ( alpha- , beta- , and gamma- ) based on sequence homology and tissue tropism . They encode sixteen kinase proteins that are grouped into three recognized families . Eight of these kinases , one from each virus , are found at homologous positions in their respective viral genomes and display limited but discernable amino acid similarity . These proteins have been designated the CHPKs for conserved herpesvirus-encoded protein kinases . We found that the beta and gamma CHPKs , but not the alpha CHPKs , share at least a subset of activities with the cellular cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ) that are key components of cell cycle regulation . Furthermore , we discovered that the CHPKs , although evolutionarily-conserved , showed a somewhat surprising non-conservation of biological activities not associated with cellular Cdks . Knowledge of functional as well as sequence and positional conservation is essential for understanding the evolutionary relationships among viral , and between viral and cellular , kinases . Importantly , because viral kinases are the targets of approved and emerging antiviral treatments , cataloging both the common and unique activities of these proteins may help predict or explain successes or failures during antiviral drug development .
Melioidosis is a serious infectious disease caused by the Tier 1 selected agent and Gram-negative environmental saprophyte , Burkholderia pseudomallei . The organism is commonly found in soil and water in melioidosis endemic areas . Infection in humans occurs following bacterial inoculation , inhalation or ingestion . There is a striking lack of accurate information on the global risk of melioidosis , something that could be determined from the global distribution of environmental B . pseudomallei . Soil sampling to detect the presence of B . pseudomallei has been ad hoc , poorly standardized , and the available information poorly collated . Negative studies are almost never reported , and there is no published review on this topic . We responded to this problem during the VIth World Melioidosis Congress held in Townsville , Australia in December 2010 by forming the ‘Detection of Environmental Burkholderia pseudomallei Working Party ( DEBWorP ) ’ . We have since worked together to undertake a systematic review , map the available information , and reach a consensus on low cost methods for the detection of environmental B . pseudomallei . Our goal is to promote the use of these consensus methods and encourage people worldwide to participate in an effort to produce a comprehensive global map of environmental B . pseudomallei .
Enveloped viruses must overcome a succession of cellular barriers before establishing infection . One obstacle is fusion of viral and cellular membranes . Rearrangements of proteins on the viral surface facilitate fusion and subsequent delivery of the viral genome into the cytosol . In this study , we probed the fusion-promoting rearrangement of the dengue-virus envelope ( E ) protein . Peptides derived from the membrane proximal “stem” of E bind to a form of recombinant E that represents a late-stage intermediate in its low-pH triggered conformational change . The binding mimics a key step in the fusion-promoting process . We find that these stem peptides also inhibit viral infectivity , with potency proportional to their affinity for E , and that they do so by specifically blocking fusion . We provide evidence that inhibition is a two-step process: an initial , nonspecific interaction of the peptide with the viral membrane , followed by specific binding to E , as the protein undergoes conformational rearrangement . The initial step explains how the virus can carry the peptide into an endosome—a necessary step , because the binding surface on E becomes available only after exposure to low pH . This work extends the model of flavivirus fusion , and suggests strategies for targeting viruses that penetrate from endosomes .
Cholera affects more than 4 million people globally every year; people predominantly living in poverty or in resource-constrained conditions including political crises or natural disasters . Cholera’s typical presentation is characterized by rapid onset of acute watery diarrhea and vomiting which can progress from watery stool to shock in as little as four hours . Laboratory conditions needed for culture confirmation and strain preservation are rarely to never present in these affected areas . In fact , many cholera endemic areas in Sub-Saharan African are so remote that even treatment response alone is often challenging . Here we present the genomic analysis of DNA extracted from dried filter paper , which is a low-cost , low-tech and sustainable method . Previously this method has facilitated cholera confirmation by PCR , but we demonstrate that this method is also suitable for whole genome sequencing and subsequent strain characterization by presenting the analysis of samples from an outbreak in a remote area of Cameroon . This method will facilitate the understanding of the molecular epidemiology in cholera-prone areas , which were previously too challenging to attempt . It also introduces a method that can be used on a broader scale for diarrheal disease surveillance , including providing a window into co-infection and microbiome analyses .
Cells within epithelial sheets are highly polarized with distinct apical and basolateral membrane domains . This cellular organization is critical to both epithelial form and function , and a failure to maintain epithelial polarity is often linked to tumor progression . The protein network that establishes and maintains the two membrane domains relies on the precise subcellular localization of its molecular components , but little is known about how these proteins are targeted to their sites of action . We have shown that the localization of the apical determinant protein Stardust depends on the microtubule motor Dynein . While investigating the relationship between Dynein and Stardust , we also made two unexpected observations about stardust mRNA regulation . First , the mechanism by which Dynein localizes Stardust may depend , in part , on the apical targeting of the stardust mRNA . Second , some stardust mRNA is apically localized during early stages of epithelial development , but the selective removal of the apical localization signal leads to the sole production of uniformly localized transcripts in mature epithelial cells . Together , these results introduce roles for Dynein in apico–basal polarity regulation and raise important questions about the role of mRNA localization in the targeting of polarity determinant proteins and epithelial maturation .
Leishmaniasis is one of the most important human neglected parasitic diseases worldwide . When it appears in the visceral form it has the most aggressive outcome , and is fatal if left untreated . The current mode of reproduction of these parasites is under discussion , from propagation to a sexual reproduction process . Here , we describe for the first time the intraclonal genetic exchange between two transgenic L . infantum fluorescent strains in their natural vector Phlebotomus perniciosus . Hybrid clones displayed parental phenotypic traits such as yellow fluorescence and double-drug resistance . The DNA content of the hybrid lineage was 3n , while the parental lineage was 2n . The hybrid clone was able to undergo all the morphogenic transitions required to complete a full life cycle to infect a susceptible mammalian host , and maintained both phenotype and genotype . However , its capacity to generate the same lesions as those observed with parental clones in BALB/c mice was reduced .
HASPB belongs to a hydrophilic repeat-containing surface antigen family found in Leishmania . The L . infantum/L . donovani protein has been used for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis , and is a putative vaccine candidate for this disease . Visceral leishmaniasis is a fatal disease , and approximately one third of the cases are found in East Africa . The k26 – PCR , which amplifies the repeat region of HASPB , produced different amplicon sizes for recent Ethiopian L . donovani depending on the strain's geographic origin . Further analysis showed that the number and order of the peptide motifs , either 13 or 14 amino acids long , comprising the L . donovani repeats varies between endemic regions of East Africa . Polymorphism in the amino acid sequence of the peptides was also observed . In addition , the 13 amino acid peptide motifs prevalent in L . donovani are rare in L . infantum . The observed polymorphisms in the HASPB repeat region suggests that custom antigens may be needed for diagnosis or vaccination in distinct endemic foci .
Multiple variants of HIV can infect the same cell , and because each viral particle contains two copies of the viral genomic RNA , RNAs from different viruses can occasionally be incorporated together within a viral particle . When this virus subsequently infects another cell , genetic exchange ( recombination ) may occur between these two divergent copies of genomic RNA as a result of a switch between the RNA molecules while they are copied into DNA . This process is very important to understand as it contributes to the generation of new HIV variants . In this study , we have analysed a set of recombinant HIV genomes generated in the laboratory to construct a probabilistic model of the propensity for the switch to take place in specific regions of the genome , dependent on the local similarity of the parental viral sequences . This model allows us to predict the locations where recombination should occur more frequently . By comparing these predictions to the patterns of recombination observed in the HIV-1 pandemic , we identify the genomic regions in which recombination has been more important , in that it has provided an evolutionary advantage to the virus .
Computational modeling of brain and behavior plays an important role in modern neuroscience research . By deconstructing mechanisms of behavior and quantifying parameters of interest , computational modeling helps researchers to study brain-behavior mechanisms . In neuroscience studies , a dataset includes a number of samples , and often the question of interest is to characterize parameters of interest in a population: Do patients with attention-deficit hyperactive disorders exhibit lower learning rate than the general population ? Do cognitive enhancers , such as Ritalin , enhance parameters influencing decision making ? The success of these efforts heavily depends on statistical methods making inference about validity and robustness of estimated parameters , as well as generalizability of computational models . In this work , we present a novel method , hierarchical Bayesian inference , for concurrent model comparison , parameter estimation and inference at the population level . We show , both theoretically and experimentally , that our approach has important advantages over previous methods . The proposed method has implications for computational modeling research in group studies across many areas of psychology , neuroscience , and psychiatry .
Sound perception and sound localization are controlled by two distinct circuits in the central nervous system . However , the cellular and molecular determinants underlying their development are poorly understood . Here , we show that a spatially restricted region of the brainstem , the rhombomere 4 , and two members of the Hox gene family , Hoxb1 and Hoxb2 , are directly implicated in the development of the circuit leading to sound perception and sound amplification . In the absence of Hoxb1 and Hoxb2 function , we found severe morphological defects in the hair cell population implicated in transducing the acoustic signal , leading ultimately to severe hearing impairments in adult mutant mice . In contrast , the expression in the cochlear nucleus of another Hox member , Hoxa2 , regulates the guidance receptor Rig1 and contralateral connectivity in the sound localization circuit . Some of the auditory dysfunctions described in our mouse models resemble pathological hearing conditions in humans , in which patients have an elevated hearing threshold sensitivity , as recorded in audiograms . Thus , this study provides mechanistic insight into the genetic and functional regulation of Hox genes during development and assembly of the auditory system .
A segment of the global marine carbon cycle that has been poorly characterized is the mineralization of complex polysaccharides to carbon dioxide , a greenhouse gas . It also remained a mystery whether prokaryotes mineralize plant/algal cell walls and woody material in the oceans via carbohydrase systems and , if so , which organisms are involved . We have analyzed the complete genome sequence of the marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans to better ascertain the potential role of prokaryotes in marine carbon transformation . We discovered that S . degradans , which is related to a number of other newly discovered marine strains , has an unprecedented quantity and diversity of carbohydrases , including the first characterized marine cellulose system . In fact , extensive analysis of the S . degradans genome sequence and functional followup experiments identified an extensive collection of complete enzyme systems that degrade more than 10 complex polysaccharides . These include agar , alginate , and chitin , altogether representing an extraordinary range of catabolic capability . Genomic analyses further demonstrated that the carbohydrases are unusually modular; sequence comparisons revealed that many of the functional modules were acquired by lateral transfer . These results suggest that the prokaryotic contribution to marine carbon fluxes is substantial and cannot be ignored in predictions of climate change .
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) causes encephalitis and reproductive disorder in humans and pigs respectively , causing a serious impact on public health and pig industry . In nature JEV life cycle include both vertebrates ( birds and pigs ) as well as invertebrates ( mosquitoes ) . Phylogenetic studies confirmed that JEV has five geographically and epidemiologically distinct genotypes ( GI-V ) . Genotype III ( GIII ) was an endemic strain in Asia , but recently genotype I ( GI ) has displaced GIII as the most frequently isolated virus genotype . It is unclear if mosquitoes play a role in this genotype shift or not . Both genotypes are endemic in China and primarily transmitted by different species of Culex ( Cx . ) mosquitoes . Cx . Mosquitoes are the most common species in China and their role in this genotype shift was not studied previously . In the present study , we used Cx . pipiens mosquitoes from China as an in vivo mosquito model and challenged with GI and GIII JEV strains to explore if mosquitoes played a potential role in JEV genotype shift . Our investigation showed that GI and GIII viruses had similar infectivity in Cx . pipiens mosquitoes which highlighted that Cx . pipiens mosquitoes from China may not play a critical role in the genotype shift . Although the current data were obtained solely from Cx . pipiens mosquitoes , it is likely that the conclusion drawn could be extrapolated to the role of mosquitoes in JEV genotype shift .
Dengue infection , especially severe dengue , affected more of adults from working age groups in the society . They can present with non-specific symptoms mimicking many other febrile illnesses , or severe symptoms suggestive of sepsis , with low suspicion of dengue . The clinical progression in severe dengue can be dynamic and sometimes unanticipated , whereby patients can deteriorate rapidly in a short period of time and succumb to death . Although children tend to have central nervous system involvement , where they presented with confusion and/ or seizure , and more elderly had heart involvement , the primary cause of dengue death , dengue shock syndrome , did not differ across different age groups .
Animals choose their mates based on specific attractive traits , like song and plumage characteristics in birds , or smell and call features in mammals . These traits often reflect the beneficial qualities of their bearer , including parasite resistance , parental care , and fecundity , all of which increase the success of a chooser in siring more and healthier progeny . Why certain traits rather than others are used in assessing the mate quality is not clear . In this article , we show that insulin signaling–a conserved nutrient-sensing pathway that affects female metabolic status—acts specifically in certain tissues to increase fecundity and , at the same time , increases attractiveness of female pheromones in the fruitfly , Drosophila melanogaster . Our discoveries support the idea that reliability in mate assessment depends on the activity of an underlying molecular pathway that affects both attractiveness and fecundity . This work provides a foundation for investigating the mechanistic links between an attractive trait ( pheromones ) and evolutionary fitness ( egg production ) .
Since 2013 , a major epidemic of Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) spread throughout three countries in West Africa for about two years . Its scale was unprecedented since the Ebola virus was first identified . Almost all districts of Guinea , Liberia and Sierra Leone were affected , but some areas observed much larger outbreaks than others . In this study , we offer insights into the geographical variation of EVD transmissibility . We estimated the epidemic growth rate for each subnational unit and used the results to calculate the basic reproduction number R0 , which indicates how many secondary infections arise on average from one primary case at the beginning of an outbreak . We found that the transmissibility of EVD differed within the three countries and we identified areas of high initial transmission . We also show that socio-demographic factors related to urbanisation and crowding might have been acting as drivers of EVD spread . These findings confirm that early containment of outbreaks in large communities is crucial for the prevention of epidemics as seen in West Africa during 2013–2015 .
Rates of protein evolution vary dramatically within and between organisms . But the factors that determine a protein's evolutionary rate are still under debate , despite extensive studies over the past decade . Several determinants have been proposed , for example gene expression , the importance of the gene for the organism , the number of physical or genetic interactions it has , its structural characteristics , or when it originated . Here we study how age and structural characteristics interact with one another to influence evolutionary rates . We use a set of one-to-one orthologs of human and mouse proteins , with known crystal structures . We find that these two determinants interact: for example , the age of protein modulates how its structure correlates with evolutionary rate . Nonetheless , the influence of age on evolutionary rate cannot be explained by its interplay with structure .
Embryonic development requires coordinated changes in gene expression for the differentiation of specific cell types . Regulated changes in gene expression are also important for maintaining tissue homeostasis and preventing cancer . Histone modifications contribute to the control of gene expression by affecting chromatin structure and the recruitment of regulatory proteins . Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) catalyzes the methylation of a lysine residue on histone H3 , an early step in gene repression . By investigating how PRC2 is recruited to genes , we have found that Polycomb-like 3 ( Pcl3 ) , a protein upregulated in diverse cancers , is a component of PRC2 that promotes its binding and function at target genes . Consistent with roles for PRC2 in regulating stem cell behaviors , Pcl3 is important for embryonic stem cell self-renewal . Thus , Pcl3 is a critical regulator of gene repression and stem cell self-renewal that acts by controlling PRC2 binding to target genes .
Plasticity in chemoreceptor gene expression may be a simple strategy by which an animal can modulate its chemosensory responses in changing external and internal state conditions . However , the transcriptional mechanisms required for these chemoreceptor gene expression changes are poorly understood . Here , we describe the identification of a transcriptional module ( s ) consisting of MEF-2 and basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors and their cognate binding sites in Caenorhabditis elegans that act together in ADL sensory neurons to properly regulate expression of a feeding-state dependent chemoreceptor gene . We also showed that chemoreceptor gene expression in ADL neurons are regulated remotely by bHLH factors acting in the intestine through an insulin-mediated signaling pathway , implying a sensory neuron-gut interaction for modulating chemoreceptor gene expression as a function of feeding state . This work describes transcriptional mechanisms mediated by MEF-2 and bHLH factors by which the expression of individual chemoreceptor genes in C . elegans are changed in response to changes in feeding state conditions .
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin condition caused by infection with the environmental bacterium , Mycobacterium ulcerans . BU has been reported in more than 30 countries in Africa , the Americas , Asia and the Western Pacific . How people become infected with M . ulcerans is not completely understood , but numerous studies have explored the role of biting insects . In 2007 , it was discovered that M . ulcerans could be detected in association with mosquitoes trapped in one town in southeastern Australia during a large outbreak of BU . In the present study we investigated whether there was a relationship between the incidence of BU in humans in several towns and the likelihood of detecting M . ulcerans in mosquitoes trapped in those locations . We found a strong association between the proportion of M . ulcerans-positive mosquitoes and the incidence of human disease . The results of this study strengthen the hypothesis that mosquitoes are involved in the transmission of M . ulcerans in southeastern Australia . This has implications for the development of strategies to control and prevent BU .
The myelin sheath that surrounds the axon of a neuron acts as a biological insulator . Its major function is to increase the speed at which impulses propagate along myelinated fibers in the central nervous system , as well as the peripheral nervous system . Alterations or damage affecting this structure ( demyelination ) result in the disruption of signals between the brain and other parts of the body . In the rat , mutations producing demyelination have been frequently identified and characterized and have contributed to a better understanding of the genetics of myelin development , physiology , and pathology . This paper reports the molecular characterization of a recessive allele responsible for the progressive disruption of myelin that was initially observed in mutant rats , previously named demyelination ( dmy ) . This mutation generates an additional splicing acceptor site in an intron of the mitochondrial Mg2+ transporter gene ( Mrs2 ) , resulting in the insertion of a 83-bp genomic DNA segment into the Mrs2 transcript and complete functional inactivation of the mutant allele . We firstly defined the biological function of MRS2 in mammals and demonstrated the crucial and unexpected role of MRS2 in myelin physiology . Our findings might be helpful in the development of new therapeutic strategies for demyelinating syndromes .
It has been shown that microarray based gene expression signatures have the potential to be powerful tools for patient stratification , diagnosis of disease , prognosis of survival , assessment of risk group , and selection of treatment . However , documentation standards in current publications do not allow for a signature's unambiguous application to study-external patients . This hinders independent evaluation , effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice . Based on eight clinical microarray studies , we show that common documentation standards have the following shortcoming: when using the documented information only , the same patient might receive a diagnosis different from the one he would have received in the original study . To address the problem , we derive a documentation protocol that reduces the ambiguity of diagnoses to a minimum . The resulting gain in consistency of study-internal versus study-external diagnosis is validated by statistical resampling analysis: using the proposed documentation by value strategy , the median inconsistency dropped from 18% to 1% . Software implementing the proposed method , as well as practical guidelines for using it , are provided . We conclude that the process of evaluating microarray gene expression diagnostic signatures and bringing them to clinical practice can be substantially improved and made more reliable by better documentation .
Atomic resolution structural insights into the biofilm-associated curli amyloid fibril secreted by Enterobacteriaceae revealed elements of fibrillar architecture conserved between bacterial and human amyloids . This inspired us to repurpose anti-amyloid drugs designed to target human pathological amyloids as a novel class of anti-biofilm agents . Moreover , the results provide a molecular basis for understanding interspecies cross-seeding of amyloids through the generation of prion-like agents by molecular mimicry . This raises concerns regarding human exposure to exogenous sources of amyloids , such as contaminated food and amyloid-secreting microbes . Overall , we provide a novel framework for investigating interspecies amyloid interactions at the molecular level and offer novel insights into mechanisms which may underlie the evolutionary and etiological relationships between the human and microbial amylomes .
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is an important cause of neurologic infections in Asia , resulting in substantial disability and deaths . Although believed to be endemic in the Philippines , little is known of the epidemiology and geographic distribution of this disease in the country . We reviewed data from clinical studies , prevalence surveys and animal studies since the 1950s . Based on this review , JEV is an important cause of encephalitis and febrile illness in all three major island groups of the country . The majority of cases were seen in children younger than 15 years and males were more often affected than females . The national laboratory initiated testing of referred cases in 2009 and surveillance for acute encephalitis syndrome ( AES ) with laboratory confirmation of a subset of cases was established in 2011 . From 2011 to 2014 , there were 1 , 032 cases of suspected JE . Of 497 cases with specimens tested , 73 ( 15% ) had laboratory-confirmed JE . Our findings confirm that JE has an extensive geographic distribution in the Philippines . These findings support the introduction of JE vaccine into the country’s routine immunization program .
When a species is grown under optimal conditions the single-knockout of most of its genes is not likely to affect its viability . The resilience of biological systems to mutations is termed genetic robustness and its extent across different species has not yet been systematically described . Since the deletion of a gene can have varying consequences depending on the environmental conditions , the extent of species' genetic robustness reflects both the range of conditions ( or environments ) in which it can survive as well as the availability of alternative cellular routes ( compensating for a gene's loss of function ) . Here , we developed a computational model for estimating the essentiality of metabolic reactions across natural-like environments and applied it to chart species' level of genetic robustness , providing the first systematic description of genetic robustness across species . Studying robustness across a wide collection of natural-like environments enables one to stratify , for each species individually , the extent of environmental-dependant and independent robustness and hence advances our understanding of its evolutionary origins . Our main finding is that the level of environmental dependent robustness is associated with the lifestyle of a species ( i . e . , specialists versus generalist ) , whereas the level of environmental-independent robustness is associated with its metabolic production capacities .
Infection with the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni , which causes Bilharzia , is common among communities living along the shores of Lake Victoria in Uganda and elsewhere around fresh water bodies in Africa . Infection with this parasite is known to alter the body’s immune responses , even to stimuli which are not directly related to the parasite . This alteration may have an adverse impact on responses to vaccines . However , there is still insufficient information on such effects and on whether treatment of schistosomiasis can reverse them . We conducted a study on the Entebbe peninsula in Lake Victoria to examine the effects of infection with S . mansoni parasites on responses to childhood measles catch-up immunisation , and the effect of treating the parasites on the responses . A cohort of 3–5 year-old children , either infected with S . mansoni or not , was enrolled and given measles immunisation . The infected children were treated for S . mansoni either before , at the time of , or a week after the immunisation . Levels of antibodies against measles were measured at one week and 24 weeks after immunisation as indicator of possible protection against measles . The levels of antibodies against measles were lower among the S mansoni-infected children than the uninfected children , and treatment improved this situation . This implies that S . mansoni infection is associated with reduced measles immunisation responses and that treatment improves the response . At 24 weeks post-immunisation , when all children had been treated for S . mansoni , at least 95% of children in all groups had protective levels of antibody . Considering that pre-school children are vulnerable to Bilharzia , an effective schistosomiasis control programme that includes this age group may be beneficial for vaccine efficacy , an issue that needs further investigation .
The study of bacterial population biology is complicated by the fact that , although bacteria are largely asexual , they can also exchange genetic materials through homologous recombination . Unlike eukaryotes , recombination in bacteria is not an obligatory process . Furthermore , the recombination mechanisms are subject to many biological and ecological factors that can vary even within different populations of the same species . Although increasing evidence for homologous recombination has been found in many bacterial species , determining the frequency of recombination and understanding the influence that it exerts upon the evolution of bacterial populations remains a challenging work . In this article , we provide a dynamic picture of recombination within and between closely related bacteria species . Through an integration of several Bayesian statistical models , our method highlights the importance of a quantitative estimation of recombination . Our analyses of a challenging multi-locus sequence typing ( MLST ) database demonstrate that combined analyses using both traditional phylogenetic methods , explorative MLST tools and Bayesian population genetic models can together yield interesting biological insights that cannot easily be reached by any of the approaches alone .
Top-down signals originate from higher cognitive areas such as parietal and prefrontal cortex and propagate to earlier stages of the brain . They have been thought to be associated with selective attention , and recent physiological studies suggest that top-down signals in the beta frequency band can support selective attention . In this study , we employ a computational model to investigate potential mechanisms by which top-down beta rhythms can influence neural responses induced by presentation of stimuli . The model includes several cell types , reportedly crucial for generating cortical rhythmic activity in the gamma and beta frequency bands , and the simulation results show that top-down beta rhythms are capable of reproducing experimentally observed attentional effects on neural responses to visual stimuli . These modulatory effects of top-down beta rhythms are mainly induced via activation of ascending inhibition originating from deep layer slow inhibitory interneurons . Since the excitability of slow interneurons can be increased by cholinergic neuromodulators , these interneurons may mediate the effects of cholinergic tone on attention .
The sporadic emergence and spread of novel human pathogens poses a continuing threat to global public health . Early and accurate prediction of epidemic behavior is needed to inform effective public health policy decisions which much balance the risk of major outbreaks with the substantial costs of interventions . Key parameters governing the behavior of epidemics , however , cannot be directly observed and hence computational techniques are required for parameter estimation and prediction on the basis of imperfect surveillance data . In this paper , we develop a method ( Multiple Shooting for Stochastic Systems , MSS ) that utilizes accumulating epidemic data to estimate in real-time ( 1 ) key epidemic parameters including the average number of secondary cases and the mean duration of infectiousness , ( 2 ) the future number of cases , and ( 3 ) the unobserved number of infected individuals in the population . Employing comprehensive simulation experiments , we demonstrate that MSS outperforms the existing state-of-the-art calibration and prediction techniques in the majority of simulated scenarios . MSS may thus allow policy makers to respond more effectively and use resources more efficiently in the face of emerging epidemic threats .
What occurred a moment ago has a strong impact on how we perceive the present: previous sensory events , decisions , and actions all leave traces that can affect our current perception . In this study , we demonstrate that human perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces arising from the history of sensory and decisional events . On the one hand , repulsive forces push perception away from recent stimuli . On the other , attractive forces dominate human perception during sequences of perceptual decisions , biasing the present sensory input to appear more similar to the past than it actually is . We have formalized these findings in a computational , physiologically informed model that takes into account the hierarchical structure of perceptual processing in the human brain , proposing a unifying view of history biases in perception .
The existence of circadian clocks , which allow organisms to predict daily changes in their environments , have been recognized for centuries , yet only recently has the molecular machinery responsible for their generation been uncovered . The current model in animals posits that interlocked feedback loops of transcription-translation produce these 24-hour rhythms . In fruit flies , the transcription loop contains a key activator complex , composed of the transcription factors Clock and Cycle . This CLK-CYC complex stimulates the synthesis of repressor proteins like Period and Timeless , which repress the activator complex . The synthesis–repression cycle takes precisely 24 hours under environmental conditions that influence the circadian period . An almost identical process relies on the ortholog proteins CLK-BMAL in mammals . Recent findings have challenged the transcription-translation feedback model and suggest that circadian transcription is an output process and that the post-translational modification of clock proteins is the real central pacemaker mechanism . In the present study , we have manipulated the levels and strength of the CLK-CYC complex . The results demonstrate that its activity is vital for proper period determination and thus indicate that the transcriptional feedback loop is part of the core circadian mechanism .
The traits that distinguish closely related bacterial species are often ascribed to differences in gene content , which arise primarily through horizontal gene transfer . In some instances , the genes mediating a new trait act as independent entities that function in a variety of organisms . However , the ability of a horizontally acquired gene product ( s ) to operate on an ancestral pathway might be constrained by subtle differences between orthologous ancestral proteins . Here , we examine why the horizontally acquired pmrD gene product post-translationally activates the ancestral PmrA/PmrB two-component system in Salmonella enterica but not in the closely related species Escherichia coli . This allows Salmonella , but not E . coli , to transcribe PmrA-activated genes including those conferring antibiotic resistance when grown in low Mg2+ , which is a condition that promotes PmrD expression . We now demonstrate that , paradoxically , the E . coli PmrD protein activates the PmrA/PmrB system in Salmonella even though it fails to do so in E . coli . We establish that quantitative differences in the biochemical activities of the PmrB proteins from Salmonella and E . coli dictate the functionality of PmrD , which protects phosphorylated PmrA from PmrB's phosphatase activity . Our findings demonstrate that ancestral genes can control the ability of horizontally acquired genes to confer species-specific traits upon different organisms .
Cellular differentiation is the process by which a less specialized cell becomes a more specialized cell type , characterized by the expression pattern of a subset of genes during the differentiation process . Identifying the subset of genes that initiate the differentiation process is critical to study differentiation mechanisms . The current practice for finding such genes is to separate distinguishable cell types , measure gene expression from each cell type , and then identify differentially expressed genes . These methods would inevitably include a large portion of genes that respond to , rather than regulate , the differentiation process . We demonstrate through the use of biological replicates and a novel statistical approach that the gene expression data obtained without prior separation of cell types are informative for detecting genes that may regulate differentiation . Applying this method to analyze the differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells , we identified and then experimentally verified a novel regulatory gene . We formalized this statistical approach as a statistical test that is generally applicable to analyze other differentiation processes .
Plenty of gene variants have been associated with a disease , yet most of the heritability , along with the molecular basis , of common diseases remains unexplained . However , it is widely thought that the products of genes whose mutations are implicated in the same disease function together in the same biological pathways and it is the disruption of these pathways that underlies the disease . Such pathways are not well defined and their identification could help elucidate disease mechanisms . Consequently , groupwise functional analyses of gene variants to identify common disease-relevant pathways are becoming standard in next-generation sequencing studies , but we find that these analyses are confounded by coding-sequence length bias . We control for these bias and describe a phenotype-based approach which outperforms other methods in discerning functional associations among the disease-associated genes . We also demonstrate the suitability of this method to functionally dissect the gene variants underlying a complex disorder , the identified functional clusters offering insight into disease mechanisms .
Why Was This Study Done ? In January 2014 , Mexico passed an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g , including salty snacks , chips , cakes , pastries , and frozen desserts; and a 1 peso/liter ( ~10% ) tax on sugar-sweetened beverages . To date , there has been very limited research as to how larger health-related food/beverage taxes change household food purchases , or whether low socioeconomic status ( SES ) households are more responsive to such taxes . What Did the Researchers Do and Find ? Using a dataset that follows household food purchases over time , we examined whether the volume of taxed foods showed greater declines in the post-tax period than we would have expected based on trends in the volume of taxed food purchases prior to the tax . We also examined whether post-tax changes in the volume of taxed food purchases was greater among low SES households . We found that the mean volume of purchases of taxed foods in 2014 declined by 25 g per capita per month , or a 5 . 1% change beyond what would have been expected based on pre-tax ( 2012–2013 ) trends . There were no changes in the purchase of untaxed foods in the post-tax period . Low SES households’ purchases of taxed foods declined by 10 . 2% and medium SES households by 5 . 8% , whereas high SES did not change . What Do These Findings Mean ? These findings show that in the post-tax period , purchases of taxed foods declined more than we would expect if pre-tax trends had simply continued , particularly among low and medium SES households . Future research should explore how these shifts are linked to changes in the nutritional quality of the overall diet .
Many different animals ( from insects to primates ) try to escape from collision threats , because it is very possible that the approaching object is a predator . The corresponding neurons in the various nervous systems must therefore detect such threats and signal when it is time to escape . Surprisingly , the neurons of different animals which selectively respond to approaching objects have very similar properties . It is therefore worthwhile to understand their underlying computational principles . A common characteristic of such neurons is that they receive ( or integrate ) information from the whole visual field . The integration process is carried out by the dendritic tree of the neuron . Here we present a computational model in which we assume that each of the input signals is contaminated by noise , as well as having a response threshold ( which has to be crossed in order to evoke a response ) . Then , dendritic integration approximates a mathematical function ( a power law ) which is essential in our model for explaining the response characteristics of collision-sensitive neurons . Thus , noise is used in a constructive way for computing collision-sensitive responses . Power laws are furthermore found in many different contexts , and may consequently hint at the presence of noise and thresholds .
Organised control of Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , the third most common mycobacterial disease , began in Cameroon in 2002 . We used 2001–2014 data and activity reports from the National BU Control Programme , to describe the onset , evolution , achievements and challenges of BU control in Cameroon , and make suggestions for improvement and expansion of programme activities . A cumulative number of 3700 BU cases have been detected and treated free-of-charge in five functional BU diagnostic and treatment centres . Sixty-four BU-endemic districts are now confirmed in Cameroon . Furthermore , Cameroon has actively participated in several BU research activities . However major challenges regarding demanding and costly surveillance , education , diagnostic and treatment activities remain to be addressed . Capitalizing on experiences and lessons learned in the past 14 years of activities , the National BU control programme should however be prepared to move forward .
In order to arbitrate between different decision strategies , as well as to inform future choices , a decision maker needs to estimate the probability of her choices being correct as precisely as possible . Surprisingly , this metacognitive operation , known as confidence judgment , has not been systematically investigated in the context of simple instrumental-learning tasks . Here , we assessed how confident individuals are in their choices when learning stimulus-outcome associations by trial-and-errors to maximize gains or to minimize losses . In two experiments , we show that individuals are more confident in their choices when learning to seek gains compared to avoiding losses , despite equal difficulty and performance between those two contexts . To simultaneously account for this pattern of choices and confidence judgments , we propose that individuals learn context-values , which approximate the average expected-value of choice options . We finally show that , in volatile environments , the biasing effect of context-value on confidence induces difference in learning flexibility when outcomes are framed as gains or losses .
The genus Alphavirus contains 29 known species that are transmitted by arthropods and include many important pathogens , such as Chikungunya virus ( CHKV ) , which during the past decade has re-emerged to cause massive epidemics of febrile arthralgia around the Indian Ocean . The role of the alphaviral non-structural protein 3 ( nsP3 ) has been linked to RNA replication and disease pathogenesis , but its molecular functions have remained elusive . Here we show that the nsP3s of CHKV as well as Sindbis and Semliki Forest viruses use a conserved proline-rich motif to interact with the Src-homology-3 ( SH3 ) domain of host cell amphiphysins Amph1 and BIN1/Amph2 , two adaptor proteins prominently involved in cellular membrane dynamics . We observed a striking re-localization of amphiphysin to alphaviral replication complexes in infected cells , and found that disruption of the amphiphysin SH3 binding motif in nsP3 strongly suppressed virus replication in vitro and attenuated Semliki Forest virus in infected mice . Thus , we conclude that amphiphysins are novel and important host cell factors involved in supporting alphavirus replication .
Chromoblastomycosis , a skin disease found among rural populations in tropical and subtropical regions , is caused by melanized fungi related to the black yeasts . The present study evaluates the species distribution among 123 clinical strains from endemic areas in Brazil based on multilocus sequence data , and describes two new agents of the disease which proved to be affiliated to Rhinocladiella and Cyphellophora .
In eukaryotic cells both normal metabolic activities and environmental factors such as UV radiation can cause DNA lesions or mutations . The ability of a cell to restore integrity to its genome is vital , and depends on a signaling cascade called the DNA damage response ( DDR ) that both senses and responds to the assaults . Bacterial infection is one such assault , but its effect on the DDR of the invaded cell remains elusive . Here we used the bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes to study its effect on host DNA damage and its impact on the DDR . Our results show that although Listeria is able to induce DNA damage , the ensuing response is surprisingly low , demonstrating that this bacterium is able to dampen the DDR . We have also shown that the listerial toxin listeriolysin O ( LLO ) is responsible for the observed block in the DDR . In fact , we find that LLO induces protein degradation of the main DNA damage sensor , Mre11 , thereby blocking downstream signaling . Furthermore , we have studied the impact of mutating the DDR on the infectious process and find that it negatively regulates infection with Listeria . In conclusion , our findings reveal that dampening of the DDR is crucial for a productive infection .
The human HSV-1 is associated with cold sore , while HSV-2 is considered a pathogen of sexually transmitted infection . Lytic infection by HSV-1 and HSV-2 triggers cellular responses as the virus strives to express its own genes and to replicate . To investigate host factors involved in the lytic infection cycle , we screened a chemical library of epigenetic regulation and identified several BET bromodomain inhibitors that enhanced both HSV-1 and HSV-2 infection . Using JQ1 , a well-defined BRD4 inhibitor , as a model we showed that JQ1 increases HSV infection by allocating BRD4 to viral gene promoters . We also showed that BRD4 regulates HSV-1 and HSV-2 lytic infection by recruitment of factors for transcription elongation . The study expands the knowledge on viral replication regulation and identifies novel targets for antiviral agents .
Noma is a traumatic disease characterized by oral-facial lesions that often lead to severe disfigurement and ultimately shame and isolation from the community . Because the causes of noma are likely to be numerous , and reaching those who suffer from this illness is challenging , the etiology of noma remains ill-defined . Although it is known that oral hygiene and nutrition influence the development of noma , evidence suggests that one or more microbes play a crucial role in development of noma lesions . Previous studies have examined the DNA of microbes in lesions to determine which species are present and how their abundances differ between healthy mouth sites and noma lesions . These studies used techniques that were state-of-the-art at the time , though we know they likely only scratched the surface of the resident microbial diversity . Here we extend these studies by digging deeper to characterize a larger diversity of microbial species in noma and control samples , with the goal of better identifying which microbes are uniquely present or have altered abundances in noma lesions .
Bacillus thuringiensis is an entomopathogenic bacterium used worldwide as biopesticide . Its life cycle in insect larvae , which includes virulence , necrotrophism and sporulation , is regulated by cell-cell communication systems involving sensor proteins directly regulated by re-internalized peptide pheromones . After toxaemia caused by pore-forming Cry toxins , the PlcR sensor activates the production of virulence factors leading to insect death . B . thuringiensis then shifts to a necrotrophic lifestyle preceding sporulation . Previously , we showed that this process is regulated by the sensor NprR , which , in the presence of its cognate signaling peptide NprX , adopts a tetrameric conformation allowing its binding to specific DNA sequences and transcription of genes involved in survival of the bacteria in insect cadavers . Here , we demonstrate that , in the absence of NprX , NprR is a dimer , which negatively controls sporulation , independently of its transcription factor activity . We show that NprR prevents the phosphorylation of the phosphoprotein Spo0F and inhibits the phosphorylation cascade regulating sporulation . This demonstrates that NprX binding switches the bifunctional sensor NprR from a dimeric sporulation inhibitor to a tetrameric transcription factor . By establishing a close coordination between cell density , necrotrophism and sporulation , this communication system benefits a pathogenic bacterium feeding on death matter like B . thuringiensis . NprR is found in all strains of the B . cereus group , including B . anthracis and B . cereus involved in food poisoning . Our results may provide new insights for controlling the development and the survival of these undesirable bacteria .
Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) currently cannot be cured . It can however be contained through treatment with a combination of several anti-viral drugs . Yet , during treatment resistance can occur which leads to drugs becoming ineffective . Through a combination of drugs , this resistance can be deferred indefinitely . The optimal combination of drugs depends on the specific strain of HIV with which the patient is infected . Previously , methods have been developed that predict a personalized treatment regimen based on the genetic sequence ( genotype ) of the virus via the use of computer modeling , corner stone of the methods is drug affinity prediction . Here we have applied proteochemometric modeling which takes this genetic information into account , but also includes chemical description of the drugs that are now clinically available . We show that this combined technique performs better than models that only include genetic information . Our approach leads to personalized treatment predictions with a higher reliability compared to the current state of the art . In addition , we include a reliability measure which allows each prediction to be assessed for reliability . Finally we describe mutations of the HIV genome that were not previously described in literature and lead to resistance to treatment .
The efficiency , sensitivity , and huge dynamic range of eukaryotic cell chemotaxis have proven very hard to explain . Cells respond to shallow gradients of chemotactic molecules with directed movement , but the mechanisms remain elusive . Most current models predict that cells have an internal “compass” produced by processing the extracellular signal into an intracellular mechanism that points the cell towards the gradient and steers it in that direction . In this article , we present evidence that this internal compass does not exist; instead , the cell orients itself simply by making use of its pseudopods—the dynamic finger-like projections on the surface of the cell . We approached the question by making a computational model of the movement of a cell without a compass . In this model , the cell moves in a convincingly natural way simply by using its pseudopods , which respond to positive- and negative-feedback loops . The concentration of the chemoattractant molecule modulates the amount of positive feedback . Apart from this , no signal processing is necessary . This simple model reproduces many observations about normal chemotaxis . It also accurately predicts the angle at which new pseudopods split off from old ones , which had not been previously measured . The computational model thus demonstrates that pseudopod-based mechanisms are powerful enough to explain chemotaxis .
Yersinia pestis , the bacterial agent of plague , is transmitted by fleas that feed on blood from rodents that carry this disease . The conclusions from studies comparing how efficiently fleas transmit plague after becoming infected have been inconsistent , possibly because a variety of rodent blood sources have been used . To investigate this , we infected three different flea species with Y . pestis using four different types of rodent blood and compared how well they could transmit three days later . The two rodent flea species that transmitted efficiently tended to reflux bacteria and blood into their esophagus when rat or guinea pig blood was used for the infections , but not when mouse or gerbil blood was used . This reflux phenomenon appears to be related to the solubility of the hemoglobin molecule of different rodent species . In contrast , cat fleas , inefficient transmitters , never refluxed their infected blood meal into the esophagus . Rodent fleas that were infected using reflux-inducing rat blood transmitted more Y . pestis than those that fed on infected mouse blood . These findings improve our understanding of how fleas transmit Y . pestis soon after becoming infected and suggest a reason why certain rodents figure more prominently in plague ecology than others .
Traditionally , sensory neuroscience has focused on correlating inputs from the physical world with the response of a single neuron . Two stimuli can be distinguished solely from the response of one neuron if one stimulus elicits a response and the other does not . But as soon as one departs from extremely simple stimuli , single-cell coding becomes less effective , because cells often respond weakly and unreliably . High fidelity coding then relies upon populations of cells , and correlation among those cells can greatly affect the neural code . While previous theoretical studies have demonstrated a potential coding advantage of correlation , they allowed only a marginal improvement in coding power . Here , we present a scenario in which a pattern of correlation among neurons in a population yields an improvement in coding performance by several orders of magnitude . By “improvement” we mean that a neural population is much better at both distinguishing stimuli and at encoding a large number of them . The scenario we propose does not invoke unrealistic values of correlation . What is more , it is even effective for small neural populations and in subtle cases in which single-cell coding fails utterly . These results demonstrate a previously unappreciated potential for correlated population coding .
Cholera is a severely dehydrating diarrheal disease that remains an important global public health problem especially in developing countries . Globally , almost all cases of cholera are caused by V . cholerae O1 . V . cholerae O1 organisms can be classified into two serotypes , Ogawa and Inaba , based on the presence or absence of a methyl group on the upstream terminal moiety of OSP . Immunity against cholera is serogroup-specific and serogroup specificity is determined by the O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) of V . cholerae lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . Previous infection with Ogawa provides protection against subsequent Ogawa infection , while previous infection with Inaba provides more complete protection against subsequent Inaba and Ogawa infection . We have previously reported development of an Ogawa cholera conjugate vaccine . Here we report development of an Inaba OSP:rTTHc cholera conjugate vaccine and assessment of a range of doses , molar ratios of polysaccharide to carrier , immunization routes , and presence or absence of adjuvant .
Mapping of lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) caused by W . brancrofti is usually done by employing a rapid diagnostic test that permits the detection of worm antigen in daytime blood . This is sometimes combined with a thick blood film ( TBF ) for microscopic examination , as confirmatory tool for detecting W . bancrofti Mf in peripheral night blood . During recent epidemiological surveys using immunochromatographic card test ( ICT ) to map LF in areas highly endemic for loiasis , positive card tests were observed in individuals’ amicrofilaremic for W . bancrofti during night TBF examination , as well as by parasite DNA detection . The possibility of ICT cross-reacting with L . loa antigen was envisaged , but so far associations between ICT positivity and L . loa endemicity levels and loads of Mf in day blood have not yet been established . Moreover , M . perstans another filaria with blood dwelling Mf , that is often sympatric with L . loa , could contribute to the observed ICT cross-reactivity . The authors investigated the cross-reactivity of ICT in areas with contrasting endemicity levels of L . loa and M . perstans in Cameroon . Results incriminated L . loa as the major confounder in ICT cross-reactivity , with significant association between ICT positivity and loiasis both at individual level ( load of Mf/ml of blood ) and endemicity level ( Mf prevalence ) . M . perstans displayed no association with ICT positivity . The findings raised concerns about the specificity of the whole blood ICT used for LF mapping in loiasis co-endemic areas . The development of an algorithm for LF mapping in loiasis co-endemic areas will be important to validate the LF map obtained using ICT in Central Africa .
Viruses with a positive-stranded RNA genome replicate in the cytoplasm of infected host cells . Their replication is driven by a membrane-bound viral enzyme complex that is commonly associated with modified intracellular membranes . Little is understood about the formation and architecture of these replication structures and their exact role in viral RNA synthesis . We used electron microscopy and tomography for the three-dimensional imaging of the membrane alterations induced by severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) -coronavirus , a member of the virus group with the largest RNA genome known to date . Previously , coronaviruses were reported to induce large numbers of isolated “double-membrane vesicles” ( DMVs ) . However , our present studies reveal an elaborate reticulovesicular network of modified endoplasmic reticulum membranes with which SARS-coronavirus replicative proteins are associated . The lumen of this unique membrane network contains numerous large ( diameter 250–300 nm ) “inner vesicles , ” which were formerly thought to reside in isolated DMVs . Intriguingly , although the interior of these vesicles does not appear to be connected to the cytosol , it labels abundantly for double-stranded RNA , which presumably is present at the site of viral RNA synthesis . The ultrastructural dissection of this elaborate “replication network” shows how coronaviruses extensively reorganize the host cell's membrane infrastructure , to coordinate their replication cycle , and possibly also hide replicating RNA from antiviral defense mechanisms .
The root system is a highly specialized plant organ that works to get both water and essential mineral nutrients from the changing chemically and physically complex environment of the soil . Roots do this by both controlling the uptake of water and essential mineral ions , as well as regulating their movement to the central vascular system of the plant for long distance transport to the shoot . To allow the cellular control of water and mineral ion uptake and transport via specialized transport proteins , plant roots contain a waxy layer of suberin that acts to seal connections between cells , preventing uncontrolled leakage of water and mineral ions between cells . By screening thousands of mutant A . thaliana plants , we were able to identify a plant with elevated levels of suberin in the root . Using this mutant , we were able to uncover the importance of suberin in sealing connections between root cells to regulate water movement through the plant and accumulation of various essential and nonessential minerals in leaves , including sodium , sulfur , potassium , calcium , manganese , zinc , arsenic , selenium , and molybdenum .
Reception and transmission of biological stimuli such as vision , olfaction , taste , and hormone and neurotransmitter signal transduction , contain inherently variable components . Yet , biological functions are stable and reliable . For each signaling process , it is of interest to investigate the causes of variability and the mechanisms by which variability is mitigated to yield responses that reliably reflect the strength of the stimulus . We have investigated the variability of the single photon response in rod photoreceptors . A photon of light is captured by a receptor rhodopsin , and it goes through a series of biochemical states ending with a random shutoff . We have created a mathematical model of such a process , based on the recent biochemical findings on activation/deactivation , capable of reproducing the peculiar experimental features of visual trasduction both in wild type and genetically modified mice . We have found that the randomness of the time that rhodopsin sojourns in each of these biochemical states is the dominant cause of variability , whereas diffusion of molecules carrying the signal within the cell acts as variability mitigators .
Cellular reaction networks show a substantial degree of complexity , and many of the regulatory mechanisms are yet to be discovered . Therefore , building detailed mathematical models of complete networks is not only unrewarding but most often impossible . Instead , focus is put on small subnetworks such as the transcriptional circuitry associated with a few genes . Practically , those subnetworks are still embedded in the cellular environment and are consequently modulated by it . The mathematical framework that we present in this work allows to build models of such subnetworks only , while still incorporating the impact of the environment . Such models are instrumental not only for advancing our biological understanding through them , but also for the reliable forward engineering of new subnetworks in synthetic biology .
Brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) decode subjects’ intended movements from neural activity . Despite significant advances , performance , robustness , and extendibility remain key challenges . Current BMIs use decoders such as Kalman filters whose parameters are estimated in closed-loop BMI operation . However , current decoders do not model the spikes directly and hence may limit the time-scale of neural processing , control , and parameter estimation . Here we develop a novel BMI training architecture for spike-event-based control and parameter estimation , and show that it enables robust control and extends to various tasks . Moreover , we propose a control-theoretic framework for closed-loop decoder training . The BMI incorporates an optimal feedback-control ( OFC ) model of brain’s control behavior to infer its motor intention . The BMI uses a point process to model the spikes; this enables the subject to control the movement and the decoder to estimate the parameters using spike events . Using closed-loop experiments in a non-human primate , we show that the OFC model improves performance compared with current intention estimation techniques; that spike-event-based adaptation enables faster performance convergence compared with current batch-based methods , and is robust to parameter initialization; and that the architecture extends to various tasks . This architecture has significant implications for future clinically-viable BMIs .
An influential theory of early sensory processing argues that sensory circuits should conserve scarce resources in their outputs by reducing correlations present in their inputs . Measuring simultaneous responses from large numbers of retinal ganglion cells responding to widely different classes of visual stimuli , we find that output correlations increase when we present stimuli with spatial , but not temporal , correlations . On the other hand , we find evidence that retina adjusts to spatio-temporal structure so that retinal output correlations change less than input correlations would predict . Changes in the receptive field properties of individual cells , along with gain changes , largely explain this relative constancy of correlations over the population .
Genetic interactions occur when a combination of mutations results in a surprising phenotype . These interactions capture functional redundancy , and thus are important for predicting function , dissecting protein complexes into functional pathways , and exploring the mechanistic underpinnings of common human diseases . Due to the large number of possible combinations of genes , only a small portion of gene pairs in yeast and only a few pairs in higher organisms like mouse and human have been tested . Therefore , predicting genetic interactions has received significant attention in the past several years . The existing methods primarily rely on the known genetic interactions , and thus are far less effective in classifying most gene pairs not well connected with known genetic interactions . Here we developed a non-parametric multi-classifier system for predicting genetic interactions based on a large number of novel features independent of the known genetic interactions . This approach led to an improved performance when compared to the current state-of-the-art method . Using this approach , we derived the first yeast transcription factor genetic interaction network , part of which was well supported by literature . This integrative approach is expected to be more effective and robust in uncovering new genetic interactions in yeast and other species .
The goal of this study and paper has been to develop an international resource to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across the cancer predisposition genes , BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Reported variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2 available from public databases were integrated into a single , newly created site , www . brcaexchange . org , to provide a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype .
The unicellular parasite Plasmodium falciparum is the causative agent of tropical malaria , which represents a global health burden . In order to survive in its human host and the malaria vector Anopheles , malaria parasites depend on adequate antioxidant defense and efficient redox regulation . Furthermore , as shown by glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , a genetic variation protecting from malaria , redox equilibrium plays a vital role in parasite pathogenicity . Using a green fluorescent protein reporter gene , we systematically studied the subcellular compartmentation of redox networks in Plasmodium falciparum . Based on our results and data from literature , we provide the first thorough map of redox compartmentation . Most interestingly , for the two major antioxidant redox-enzymes – glutathione reductase ( GR ) and thioredoxin reductase ( TrxR ) – Plasmodium falciparum makes use of alternative translation initiation to translate protein isoforms with differing subcellular localization from one gene . Dual localization of proteins due to alternative translation initiation might occur frequently in Apicomplexa and identification of further genes that have evolved alternative translation initiation is likely to offer new therapeutic strategies against this devastating disease .
Intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) are typically enriched in charged residues , with a general “coupled folding and binding” mechanism . We uncover the importance of non-native long-range electrostatic interactions between PUMA and Mcl-1 in the early stage of binding , by using the coarse-grained molecular dynamic simulations with charged model , which reveals the reason of the obviously increased binding rate at low ionic strength . However , intramolecular electrostatic interactions within PUMA can not influence the folding extent of unbound states of PUMA significantly . The results of binding-folding energy landscapes support an “induced fit” mechanism of binding . The critical residues and interactions between PUMA and Mcl-1 suggested here will be helpful for further mutational and mechanism studies .
The three-dimensional organization of genes and associated proteins is critical for gene regulation . Polycomb group proteins are important developmental regulators controlling the expression of hundreds of genes . They are not homogeneously distributed in the cell nucleus , instead forming nuclear subcompartments called Polycomb bodies . We investigated the dynamics of Polycomb bodies during Drosophila embryonic development , demonstrating that two Polycomb proteins , Polycomb and Polyhomeotic , gradually assemble onto bodies enriched in histone H3 trimethylated on lysine 27 , a hallmark of Polycomb silencing . Polycomb bodies are not the most condensed euchromatic part of the genome . Instead , a large amount of genomic chromatin is organized in a histone- and DNA–dense structure distinct from Polycomb bodies . Polycomb bodies move , meet , and split dynamically during development . Their motion has two regimes: a fast , highly constrained motion and a slower regime where multiple bodies undergo long-range coordinated movements potentially corresponding to chromosome territory movements . These regimes are not restricted to Polycomb but also extend to bulk “condensed euchromatin , ” which is characterized by slower motion and a narrower radius of confinement . Both motion regimes progressively slow down during development , suggesting that regulation of chromatin dynamics may play an important role in the maintenance of gene silencing in differentiated cells .
Mitochondria represent the powerhouses of cells and have their own DNA . Mutations in the mitochondrial genome are associated with a range of human diseases and have also been implicated as a driving force behind the aging process . We have used ultra-deep sequencing to study the genome-wide mutation load in the mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) of liver from normal inbred mice and mice that express a proof-reading–deficient mtDNA polymerase ( mtDNA mutator mice ) that cause premature aging . The mtDNA mutator mice show a dramatic increase of point mutations with age and have 10-times-higher point mutation levels than wildtype siblings or normal C57Bl/6N mice . Circular mtDNA molecules with large deletions occur at very low frequencies in mtDNA mutator mice and are therefore unlikely to contribute to the premature aging phenotype . We found no increase in levels of point mutations or deletions in normal mice with increasing age , arguing against the accumulation of mtDNA mutations as contributing to aging . Our results indicate that most somatic mtDNA mutations occur as replication errors during the rapid amplification of mtDNA during embryogenesis and do not result from damage accumulation in adult life .
Essential cellular processes such as biosynthesis , transport , and motility are sustained by the energy released in the hydrolysis of ATP , the universal energy carrier in living cells . Most ATP in the cell is produced by a membrane-bound enzyme , the ATP synthase , through a rotary mechanism that is coupled to the translocation of ions across the membrane . The majority of ATP synthases are energized by transmembrane electrochemical gradients of protons ( proton-motive force ) , but a number of organisms , including some important human pathogens , use gradients of sodium ions instead ( sodium-motive force ) . The ion specificity of ATP synthases is determined by a membrane-embedded sub-complex , the c-ring , which is the smallest known biological rotor . The functional mechanism of the rotor ring and its variations among different organisms are of wide interest , because of this enzyme's impact on metabolism and disease , and because of its potential for nanotechnology applications . Here , we characterize a previously unrecognized type of Na+-driven ATP synthase from the opportunistic human pathogen Fusobacterium nucleatum , which is implicated in periodontal diseases . We analyzed this ATP synthase and its rotor ring through a multi-disciplinary approach , combining cell-growth and biochemical assays , X-ray crystallography and computer-simulation methods . Two crystal structures of the membrane rotor were solved , at low and high pH , revealing an atypical ion-recognition motif mediated by two carboxylate side-chains . This motif is shared by other human pathogens , such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis or Streptococcus pneumonia , whose ATP synthases are targets of novel antibiotic drugs . The implications of this ion-recognition mode on the mechanism of the ATP synthase and the cellular bioenergetics of F . nucleatum were thus examined . Our results provide the basis for future pharmacological efforts against this important pathogen .
As an important part of immune system , T cells fight infections by recognizing signs of foreign invaders . A molecule on the surface of these cells—called the T cell receptor—recognizes and binds to protein components ( peptides ) from bacteria , viruses , and other pathogens that are displayed on the surface of other cells . The T cells can then use this information to orchestrate the fight against infection . Vaccination involves injecting into the body foreign peptides that mimic a pathogen , therefore tricking it into raising a T cell response against that pathogen that will be protective in the event of a real infection . We studied T cell responses in mice injected with one of several peptides to which the T cell receptor binds more or less strongly . Contrary to expectations , we found that the peptide that interacted most strongly with the T cell receptor did not provoke the strongest T cell response . This may be nature's way of preventing harmful inflammatory damage due to excessively strong T cell activation . Our work shows that peptides that bind the T cell receptor with medium strength may be best to use for vaccines . Current vaccine strategies seeking to design peptides that bind with maximum strength to the T cell receptor may need to be reconsidered in light of our findings .
Nectria haematococca MPVI occurs as a saprophyte in diverse habitats and as a plant and animal pathogen . It also was the first fungus shown to contain supernumerary chromosomes with unique habitat-defining genes . The current study reveals that it has one of the largest fungal genomes ( 15 , 707 genes ) , which may be related to its habitat diversity , and describes two additional supernumerary chromosomes . Two classes of genes were identified that have contributed to gene expansion: 1 ) specific genes that are not found in other fungi , and 2 ) genes that are present as multiple copies in N . haematococca but commonly occur as a single copy in other fungi . Some of these genes have properties suggesting their acquisition by horizontal gene transfer . We show that the three supernumerary chromosomes are different from the normal chromosomes; they contain more repeat sequences , are particularly enriched in unique and duplicated genes , and have a lower G+C content . Additionally , the biochemical functions of genes on these chromosomes suggest they may be involved in niche adaptation . The dispensable nature and possession of habitat-determining genes by these chromosomes make them the biological equivalent of bacterial plasmids . We believe they contribute to microbial diversity and have been overlooked in models of fungal evolution .
Pseudorabies virus , an alpha herpesvirus , is an important veterinary pathogen , and related to human varicella-zoster virus and herpes simplex viruses . New alpha herpesvirus particles are assembled inside an infected cell , and must exit from the infected cell by taking advantage of cellular mechanisms . How these virus particles are transported inside the infected cell and secreted at the cell surface is not understood in great detail . In particular , how this process unfolds over time is not easily observed using previous methods . In this study , we developed a new method to observe this egress process . Using this method , we described how virus particles move on their way out: individual virus particles travel to the cell surface , directly to the exit site , where they pause for several seconds before crossing out of the cell . We identified several cellular proteins that are involved in this process . After exiting , virus particles remained stuck to the outer cell surface . Finally , we draw connections between our observations and other recent studies to propose an integrated model of how alpha herpesvirus particles exit from infected cells .
Whether human pinworm infection plus mebendazole deworming treatment can shift intestinal microbiota to a composition that is beneficial to the host and influence their mucosal immune response is currently unclear . In a cohort of 109 primary school children , we discovered that Enterobius vermicularis infection is associated with increased intestinal microbial diversity , a lowered relative abundance of Fusobacteria and an enriched proportion of Actinobacteria , including the probiotic Bifidobacterium . Mebendazole deworming was found to be correlated with a further increase in bacterial diversity . However , lower gut SIgA levels were detected in the pinworm infected group , and they were increased in only half of the subjects after mebendazole treatment .
Complex traits , such as many human diseases or climate adaptation and production traits in crops , arise through the action and interaction of many genes and environmental factors . Classic approaches to identify contributing genes generally assume that these factors contribute mainly additive genetic variance . Recent methods , such as genome-wide association studies , often adhere to this additive genetics paradigm . However , additive models of complex traits do not reflect that genes can also contribute with non-additive genetic variance . In this study , we use Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the additive and non-additive genetic contributions to the phenotypic variation in root length . Surprisingly , much of the observed phenotypic variation in root length across genetically divergent strains was explained by epistasis . We mapped seven loci contributing to the epistatic genetic variance and validated four genes in these loci with mutant analysis . For three of these genes , this is their first implication in root development . Together , our results emphasize the importance of considering both non-additive and additive genetic variance when dissecting complex trait variation , in order not to lose sensitivity in genetic analyses .
MtDNA mutations are a major cause of genetic disease . Many of these variants have recurred several times in different populations and on diverse haplogroup backgrounds , but the clinical presentation of mutations causing Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy ( LHON: m . 14484T>C , m . 3460G>A , m . 11778G>A ) are strongly associated with a specific mtDNA haplogroup . This raises the possibility that many pathogenic mtDNA mutations are subject to the same effects . Here , our analysis of 30 , 506 human mtDNA sequences shows that the association between disease-causing mtDNA mutations and background mtDNA haplogroups is not only restricted to three disease-causing mtDNA mutations known to cause LHON . The frequent recurrence of the same mutations on a population clade , and the reduced frequency of European mtDNAs harboring two or more diseases-causing mutations , suggest that the population mtDNA background influences the risk of developing mtDNA mutations . Our analysis also shows that disease-causing mtDNA mutations also occur more frequently on younger mtDNAs . This implies that , once formed , the mutations are selected against . These findings indicate that the clinical interpretation of mtDNA variants should be performed within an ethnogeographic context .
Many cells cooperate with their neighbors to move as a group . However , the mechanisms of these cell-cell interactions are not well understood . One experimental tool to analyze interactions is to allow cells to collide with one another , and see what happens . In order to better understand what features these experiments measure , we develop a computational model of cell-cell collisions , and identify the biochemical and mechanical parameters that lead to different outcomes of collisions . We can recreate all known types of collisions seen in experiments , including cells reversing on contact , sticking , or walking past each other . Our model suggests that what happens in a collision may depend strongly on the mechanical forces between the two cells .
Thioredoxins are found in all types of cells and control several essential functions of life , including promotion of cell growth , inhibition of apoptosis , and modulation of inflammation . Thioredoxin has two ‘free’ cysteines in its active site , which are used to break disulfide bonds in oxidized substrate proteins . In the first step , an intermediate thioredoxin-protein complex is formed , which is broken in the second step , releasing the substrate protein in its reduced state . In other words , the disulfide is being transferred from the substrate protein to thioredoxin , or the electrons coming from thioredoxin are shuttled to the protein substrate . The exact reaction mechanism , i . e . , the detailed succession of steps in which the reaction takes place , of how this mixed disulfide is broken is not known and has been debated over the last twenty years . With a multidisciplinary approach , combining computational and experimental work , we provide fresh insights into how conformational changes activate the catalytic cysteines with which this universal reduction mechanism is completed with the correct regioselectivity . This work illustrates the strengths of computational approaches in probing phenomena which are otherwise very difficult to investigate experimentally .
People often change their preferences in the light of what others choose . One form of such change is ‘epistemic trust’ for preferences , i . e . preference alignment over and above any direct benefits that may accrue . We sought to explain preference shifting in terms of normative Bayesian inference in which , along with updating beliefs about what the world is like , and what the correct or profitable answers are given one's tastes , subjects also learn about their own personal tastes when these are incompletely certain . In a novel study based on a well-established paradigms , 740 young people expressed their tastes about the degree to which they preferred a smaller but immediate , versus a larger but delayed , reward . They did this both before and after learning about another agent’s choices . We found taste changed between the two assessments to a degree that was correlated with subjects’ choice variability in the absence of social influence . This is consistent with our Bayesian model if , for instance , people make choices by taking random samples from their own uncertain beliefs . Younger people were influenced by others more than older ones , and this observation was explained in the model by the former being less certain about their own preferences .
Signal integration is an essential feature of information flow through signal transduction pathways . The mechanisms by which signals from multiple pathways become integrated into a coordinated response remain unclear . We show that multiple pathways that regulate filamentous growth converge on a differentiation-dependent MAPK pathway . Our findings indicate that more extensive communication occurs between signaling pathways that control the filamentation response than has previously been appreciated . We suggest that global communication hierarchies regulate information flow in other systems , particularly higher eukaryotes where multiple pathways typically function simultaneously to modulate a complex response .
Scientists are just beginning to be able to link comparative developmental biology—which focuses on phenotypes—to comparative genetics ( including comparative genomics and transcriptomics ) . The challenge to doing so has been to coordinate genetic analysis in multiple species , each with distinct genomes , in order to reveal fundamental knowledge of how the modules underlying development evolve and change . In this research , we have brought comparative genetics , developmental biology , genomics , and transcriptomics into a single phylogenetic framework . By using comparative genomic data to identify orthologous genes , comparative transcriptomic data to reconstruct evolutionary changes of gene expression phenotypes across multiple species , and gene knockout technology in more than one species to interrogate function , we have identified a powerful technique to reveal genes whose evolving role has led to developmental and phenotypic differences among species .
The genome sequences of two of the three major species of schistosomes are now available . Molecular tools are needed to determine the importance of these new genes . With this in mind , we investigated introduction of reporter transgenes into schistosome eggs , with the longer-term aim of manipulation of schistosome genes and gene functions . The egg is a desirable developmental stage for genome manipulation , not least because it contains apparently accessible germ cells . Introduction of transgenes into the germ cells of schistosome eggs might result in transgenic schistosomes . However , the egg is surrounded by a thick shell which might block access to entry of transgenes . We cultured eggs in the presence of three types of reporter transgenes of increasing molecular size , and in addition we tried to produce transient holes in the eggs by electroporation to investigate whether the transgenes would more easily enter the eggs . Electroporation of eggs appeared to allow entry of two larger types of transgenes into cultured schistosome eggs , messenger RNA encoding firefly luciferase , and retroviral virions . We anticipate that this approach , electroporation of transgenes into schistosome eggs , will facilitate genetic manipulation of schistosomes for investigating the importance of schistosome genes and gene products as new intervention targets .
Biological processes in a cell often require complex molecular machineries with large macromolecular assemblies as components . An example is the chaperone system in the bacterium E . coli , which helps proteins to fold correctly . In these macromolecular machineries , signals are transmitted dynamically in order for biological functions to be carried out . Studying the dynamic process of signal transmission helps us to identify key elements of the macromolecular assemblies that are pivots for dynamic motions , communicators for interfacing with other molecules , and anchors that are key for signal transmission . In this study , we describe a novel computational method that can globally survey the dynamic responses of the macromolecular machinery to perturbation over the full time course by monitoring simultaneously all the elements at the amino acid residue level and at multiple time spans , from the initial perturbation until the system reaches equilibrium . We show that the key residues predicted by our computational method in the chaperone system of E . coli to a large extent are correct , as they often coincide with the ones identified by experimental studies . We also show that this computational method can make novel predictions about the importance of additional amino acid residues previously uncharacterized , which can be further tested in experimental studies . This approach can be applied to study other large macromolecular assemblies such as the virus capsid and ribosomal complex .
Fungi are a source of a large variety of carbohydrate-binding proteins ( lectins ) . Synthesis of these proteins usually occurs in the cytoplasm and is often restricted to the reproductive organs ( fruiting bodies , sclerotia ) of the respective fungi . Although these lectins can be very abundant in these organs , their function is unknown . The specificity for non-fungal carbohydrates and recent functional studies in genetically amenable fungi argue against an endogenous function in development . Here we show that oral administration of the fruiting-body-specific galectins of the ink cap mushroom Coprinopsis cinerea is toxic for the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and that the nematotoxicity of these fungal lectins is dependent on binding to a specific β-galactoside occurring on nematode , but not on fungal , N-glycans . Since fungal-feeding nematodes represent the predominant predators of fungi in the soil , these results suggest that these lectins are effectors of a protein-mediated fungal defense system . Lectin-mediated defense strategies against predators , parasites and pathogens are also used by plants and animals . Due to the conservation of this type of innate defense amongst eukaryotes and the reduced complexity of fungi , studies of this in fungi could contribute to a better understanding of analogous systems and the evolution of multi-level defense in animals .
During HIV infection , a small proportion of infected cells containing integrated proviral DNA enter a long-lived resting phase , thus creating latent reservoirs of virus . These reservoirs are a major barrier to curing HIV and have been studied intensively in this light . Latent reservoirs might also affect viral dynamics during untreated infection , because they provide an archive of old viral variants that can re-enter circulation at a later time upon activation of latently infected cells . We developed a mathematical model to investigate how reservoir dynamics affect the evolution of the virus within single hosts , and find that the presence of a latent reservoir can severely delay within-host evolutionary dynamics . This delay increases with the relative size of the reservoir and the rate at which latently infected cells proliferate . By nesting this within-host model into an epidemiological model of host population dynamics , we show that the presence of latent reservoirs can also influence the population-level evolution of the virus . In contrast to predictions made by previous models we find that population-level adaptation to maximise transmission between hosts , rather than within-host fitness , can occur , but only if adaptation of the virus within hosts is sufficiently slowed down by the presence of latent reservoirs .
Many viruses—for example , large DNA viruses like smallpox virus and herpesviruses—encode several proteins whose major function is to combat the host's immune response , but these proteins usually battle in vain; in general , the mammalian immune system is sufficiently accomplished to penetrate this viral armor , allowing the infected animal to mount an immune response that can eradicate—or , at least , suppress—the infectious agent . Here , we show that coxsackievirus , a small RNA virus , carries a far more powerful punch than its larger DNA cousins; it almost entirely evades detection by host CD8+ T cells , which usually are one of the key components of an antiviral immune response . How does the virus achieve such success ? Normally , when a virus infects a cell , certain host proteins capture small fragments of the virus and display them on the cell's surface , allowing them to be detected by the host immune system—usually , by cells called CD8+ T cells . We show here that coxsackievirus very effectively prevents these “flags” from reaching the cell surface in a form that can trigger naïve T cells to respond; in effect , the virus renders the cell “invisible” to CD8+ T cells , creating a cocoon in which the virus can multiply undisturbed by host immunity .
Leprosy is caused by a bacterium and is curable with a combination of antibiotics known as multi-drug therapy that patients take for six or 12 months . However a significant proportion of leprosy patients experience inflammation in their skin and/or nerves , which may occur even after successful completion of multi-drug therapy . These episodes of inflammation are called leprosy Type 1 reactions . Type 1 reactions are an important complication of leprosy because they may result in nerve damage that leads to disability and deformity . Type 1 reactions require treatment with immunosuppressive agents such as corticosteroids . The optimum dose and duration of corticosteroid therapy remains unclear . We conducted a study to see if it would be safe to use a large dose of a corticosteroid called methylprednisolone for three days at the start of a 16 week corticosteroid treatment regime of prednisolone in patients with leprosy Type 1 reactions and leprosy patients with nerve damage present for less than six months . We did this by comparing individuals who were given methylprednisolone followed by prednisolone and those who received just prednisolone . In this small study we did not see any significant difference in the frequency of adverse events due to corticosteroid treatment in the two groups . We did not demonstrate a significant difference in improvement in individuals in the methylprednisolone group ( who received a larger dose of corticosteroids ) than those in the prednisolone treated group . Overall approximately 50% of individuals required more prednisolone in addition to the 16 week course of treatment to prevent further nerve damage or reactions . This suggests that it would be worthwhile investigating longer treatment courses with corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs .
Protective anti-viral response requires balanced differentiation of effector and memory CD8 T cells . Regulatory T cells with suppressive activity ( Treg ) provide a protective immune response by differential effects on CD8 T cell subsets . In healthy donors , Treg inhibit the differentiation and proliferation of effectors while preventing the apoptosis of memory cells . These effects are achieved in part by regulating the levels of PD-1/PD-L1 apoptosis-inducing molecules on activated T cells . Despite an expansion of Treg , HIV-1 infection is characterized by a chronic immune activation and”exhausted” HIV-specific effectors expressing high levels of PD-1 and PD-L1 . This raised the question about the role of Treg in the HIV+ settings , and the possible therapeutic effect of their depletion . According to our data , the suppressive effect of Treg is highly dependent on the stage of CD8 T cell differentiation , and therefore , is subset- and antigen-specific . Thus , Treg from HIV+ donors inhibit common antigen-specific CD8 effectors , while “exhausted” HIV-specific clones appear resistant to Treg effects . In addition , we show that the subset composition and inhibitory potential of Treg may evolve in the course of infection . These data suggest that the ultimate failure to contain HIV infection results from both an intrinsic impairment of Treg function and a decreased responsiveness of effector clones , associated with high levels of PD-1/PD-L1 expression . Our data also indicate that a simple modulation of PD1/PD-L1 expression on CD8 T effector clones may not restore the protective T cell response .
Lymphatic parasites survive for years in a complex immune environment by adopting various strategies of immune modulation , which includes counteracting the oxidative free radical damage caused by the host . We now know that the filarial parasites secrete antioxidant enzymes . Among these , the glutathione-S-transferases ( GSTs ) have the potent ability to effectively neutralize cytotoxic products arising from reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) that attack cell membranes . Thus , GSTs have the potential to protect the parasite against host oxidative stress . GSTs of several helminthes , including schistosomes , fasciola and the filarial parasite Seteria cervi , are also involved in inducing protective immunity in the host . The schistosome 28 kDa GST has been successfully developed into a vaccine and is currently in Phase II clinical trials . Thus , GST appears to be a potential target for vaccine development . Therefore , in the present study , we cloned W . bancrofti GST , and expressed and purified the recombinant protein . Immunization and challenge experiments showed that 61% of protection could be achieved against B . malayi infections in a jird model . In vitro studies confirm that the anti-WbGST antibodies participate in the killing of B . malayi L3 through an ADCC mechanism and enzymatic activity of WbGST appears to be critical for this larvicidal function .
The ability to precisely modify the genome has immense therapeutic potential and also represents a powerful tool to understand gene function . One of the key gene editing tools is CRISPR ( Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats ) . Although CRISPR can be used to generate a range of genomic alterations or to correct disease causing mutations , concerns over unwanted alterations introduced by poor editing fidelity , so-called “off-targets” , have tempered the use of this technology . Here we use whole genome sequencing to show that off-target mutations are rare and not distinguishable in frequency when compared to naturally occurring mutations .
Stomatal aperture is regulated by many environmental and biotic cues such as blue light , drought , elevated CO2 concentrations , high humidity , and pathogenic elicitors . Stomatal apertures vary over diurnal cycles , and stomata tend to be open during the day in response to blue light and tend to be closed at night . The blue/UV-A light-absorbing cryptochromes and phototropins are the receptors for the blue light response . We report the action of HRB1 , a nuclear ZZ-type zinc finger protein , and PP7 , a positive regulator of blue light signaling in the nucleus , in the signal transduction cascades downstream of blue light perception . Both hrb1 and pp7 mutants are more resistant to dehydration and show reductions in both water loss and blue light-regulated stomatal aperture . Our studies on their genetic and biochemical interactions offer novel insights on the network structure of the light signaling machinery and plant interactions with the environment . Periodic drought is one of the major environmental factors that limits biomass production and crop yield in a changing global climate . Our studies may open new possibilities to engineer plants to survive desiccation .
All organisms adapt their physiology to external input , such as altered food availability or toxic challenges . Many of these responses are driven by changes in gene transcription . In general , sequence specific DNA-binding regulatory factors are considered the specificity determinants of the transcriptional output . Here , we show that , in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans , one subunit of a >20 subunit , evolutionarily conserved , non-DNA binding co-factor termed Mediator , specifies a portion of the metabolic responses to a mixture of ingested material . This protein , MDT-15 , is required for appropriate expression of genes that protect worms from the effects of toxic compounds and heavy metals . Our previous findings showed that the same protein also cooperates with other regulators to coordinate lipid metabolism . We suggest that MDT-15 may “route” transcriptional responses appropriate to the ingested material . This physiological scope appears broader and more sophisticated than that of any individual regulatory factor , thus coordinating systemic metabolic adaptation with ingestion . Given the evolutionary conservation of MDT-15 and the Mediator , a similar regulatory pathway may ensure health and longevity in mammals .
Our ability to navigate our environments relies on the ability of our brains to form an internal representation of the spaces we're in . The hippocampus plays a central role in forming this internal spatial map , and it is thought that the ensemble of active “place cells” ( neurons that are sensitive to location ) somehow encode metrical information about the environment , akin to a street map . Several considerations suggested to us , however , that the brain might be more interested in topological information—i . e . , connectivity , containment , and adjacency , more akin to a subway map— so we employed new methods in computational topology to estimate how basic properties of neuronal firing affect the time required to form a hippocampal spatial map of three test environments . Our analysis suggests that , in order to encode topological information correctly and in a biologically reasonable amount of time , the hippocampal place cells must operate within certain parameters of neuronal activity that vary with both the geometric and topological properties of the environment . The interplay of these parameters forms a “learning region” in which changes in one parameter can successfully compensate for changes in the others; values beyond the limits of this region , however , impair map formation .
The current model of HCV egress is that virions assemble at lipid droplets , envelope at the ER and then likely exit the hepatocyte via the secretory pathway in association with apolipoproteins . To gain a more detailed insight into infectious HCV release , we combined an RNAi analysis of host factors that are required for infectious HCV secretion with live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking . Using this approach , we identified numerous components of the secretory pathway that are both required for infectious HCV release and co-traffic with HCV core . The dynamics of HCV core trafficking , both in terms of frequency of transport , particle velocity , and the corresponding run lengths were quantified . We observe that dynamic core movements in the periphery require NS2 , a viral protein required for virion assembly . Core co-traffics with multiple components of the secretory pathway , including the Golgi , recycling endosome , microtubules , VAMP1 secretory vesicles , and ApoE . This study identifies new molecular determinants of HCV secretion and describes the dynamics of their movements with HCV core in real time .
Cancer-causing mutations typically involve either allele inherited from parents , and the parental source of a mutant allele is not known to influence the cancer phenotype . Imprinted genes are a class of genes whose expression is determined by a specific parental allele , either maternally or paternally derived . Thus , in contrast to most genes , the pattern of inheritance ( maternal or paternal-derived ) strongly influences the expression of an imprinted gene . Furthermore , imprinted genes can be differentially expressed in different tissue types . This work identifies a novel link between cancer and Grb10 , an imprinted gene involved in organismal metabolism and growth . In our mouse model of radiation-induced tumors , we found monoallelic Grb10 gene loss involving the parental allele responsible for protein expression . Tumors harboring genetic loss of the expressed Grb10 allele showed absent transcript and total protein levels , despite an intact remaining wildtype Grb10 allele identified by sequencing . When restored , Grb10 suppressed tumor growth by down-regulating Ras signaling . This work demonstrates a new role for an imprinted gene in tumor formation , and shows that Grb10 functions to negatively regulate Ras signaling and suppress hyperproliferation .
Using environmental cues to predict threat is a crucial skill , encountered in many species . A laboratory model to study associating predictive cues with aversive events is Pavlovian fear conditioning . A computational understanding of this process at a systems-level is lacking . Here , we investigate which computational learning model best predicts activity of the human autonomic nervous system during fear conditioning . We show , across three data sets and two autonomic readouts , that a probabilistic learning model explains the data decisively better than previously proposed models . We suggest that humans learn to predict threat by maintaining and constantly updating a probabilistic model of the environment through Bayes’ rule .
Timely septation and conidiation are essential for fungal asexual reproduction . Here , we identified a putative dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase PomA , as a suppressor of a conserved SepH ( Cdc7p ) kinase in the septation initiation network ( SIN ) cascade , is a new identified negative regulator for septation and conidiation in A . nidulans . Our findings indicated that reversible protein phosphorylation of the high-osmolarity glycerol gene hogA regulated by the SIN-SepH-PomA kinase cascade plays a key role for fungal cell septation and asexual reproduction . However , when fungi meet osmostress , they bypass the originally required SIN protein cascade to fit the environmental niches by increasing the phosphorylation of HogA .
Leishmaniasis is an infectious disease caused by protozoa of the genus Leishmania . Tegumentary Leishmaniasis ( TL ) is characterized by a variety of clinical forms , ranging from simple skin lesions to more severe lesions with mucosal destruction . The mechanisms by which some patients develop a severe form of the disease remain unclear . It is already known that the immune statuses of the host and parasite species are key factors influencing the clinical outcome of the disease , but is not known which are the factors that influence the parasite’s tropism to the mucosal regions . Recently , a virus found infecting Leishmania , Leishmania RNA virus 1 ( LRV1 ) , has also been reported as one important factor contributing to the disease severity . The present article reports , among 147 investigated patients from the Brazilian Western Amazon , a higher frequency of LRV1 among patients with mucosal lesions compared to patients with cutaneous lesions , statistically demonstrating that the virus is related to the worsening of the disease , increasing the risk of developing mucosal injury by almost 3 times .
Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is a leading cause of bacterial pneumonia and invasive diseases such as sepsis and meningitis , which are associated with high morbidity and mortality . Here we identified type I Interferons ( IFN-I ) as critical mediators that prevent the progression of a local lung infection with S . pneumoniae to invasive disease . We found that mice lacking the receptor for IFN-I , or which received antibodies that interfere with receptor activation , showed increased development of bacteremia upon lung infection with S . pneumoniae . Treating mice , or cell lines , with IFN-I protected against bacterial migration across epithelial and endothelial cell barriers , correlating with increased expression of tight junction proteins , which enhance the lung's barrier function , and reduced surface expression levels of platelet activating factor receptor , a host receptor known to be hijacked by bacteria for migration across the lung/blood and blood/brain barriers . Together , our results identify IFN-I as an important component of the host immune defense against invasion from a gram-positive , extracellular bacterium , possibly reflecting a general mechanism for the regulation of epithelial and endothelial barrier function that is critical for protection from pathogen invasion .
This study explores how intelligent behavior emerges from the basic principles known at the cellular level of biological neuronal network dynamics . Compared to the approaches used in the artificial intelligence community , we applied biologically realistic modeling of neuronal dynamics and plasticity . The building blocks of the model are spiking neurons , spike-time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) and homeostatic rules , known experimentally , which are shown to play a fundamental role in both keeping the network stable and capable of continous learning . Our study predicts that a combination of these principles makes possible a foraging behavior in a previously unknown environment , including pattern classification to distinct between environment shapes which are rewarded and those which are punished and decision making to select the optimal strategy to acquire the maximal number of the rewarded elements . To solve this complex task we used multi-layer neuronal processing that implemented pattern generalization by unsupervised STDP at the earlier processing step , as commonly observed in the animal and human sensory processing , followed by reinforcement learning at the later steps . In the model , the intelligent behavior emerged spontaneously due to the network organization implementing both local unsupervised plasticity and reward feedback resulting from a successful behavior in the environment .
The transcription factor Elf5 defines hormone-insensitive and endocrine-therapy–resistant breast cancer . In this study , we have discovered that ELF5 drives the spread of tumor cells to the lungs . We demonstrate that the underlying mechanism for this metastatic spread is via recruitment of the innate immune system . Interestingly , this effect is able to overcome the other tumor-suppressive effects of ELF5 on cancer cells , such as reduced proliferation , motility , and invasion . This important finding challenges the more conventional view that the most potent determinant of metastatic activity lies within the cancer cell . We clearly demonstrate that the innate immune system strongly influences the metastatic activity of cancer cells despite their cell-intrinsic spread potential . Our previous work demonstrated that in luminal breast cancer , ELF5 is a key determinant of antiestrogen therapy resistance . Here , we show that the metastatic mechanism driven by ELF5 is most important in luminal breast cancer patients , in whom higher ELF5 expression is associated with low presence of cytotoxic T lymphocytes , an immune cell population responsible for tumor rejection . Thus , we now see that ELF5 may be behind the two most important processes that cause luminal breast cancers to progress towards the lethal phenotype; resistance to antiestrogen therapy and the development of metastatic activity . This understanding could pave the way for new therapeutic strategies to be devised and new predictive tests to be developed .
The classic model of gene expression assumes direct spatial contact between a distal enhancer and a proximal promoter . Recent experimental evidence supported that enhancers and promoters are linked in a highly complex network of DNA–looping interactions , but it is unclear how these interactions including communication forms affect cell-to-cell variability in gene expression . Here we establish a quantitative model by mapping three possible patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a multistate model of gene expression . We first show that different connection patterns have different effects on gene expression , remarkable for short loop lengths . Then , we compare the results on the effects of two representative communication forms and find that the facilitated tracking performs better than the direct looping in controlling mean expression and in tuning expression noise , remarkable for moderate loop lengths . As such , we conclude that the former communication form is superior to the latter , rationalizing the facilitated DNA–looping hypothesis .
To allow reliable forward engineering of microbial cell factories , various metabolic engineering efforts rely on RNA-based technology . As such , programmable riboregulators allow dynamic control over gene expression . However , no clear design principles exist for de novo developed repressing riboregulators , which limits their applicability . Here , various engineering principles are identified and computationally explored . Subsequently , various design criteria are used in an experimental design , which were explored in an in vivo study . This resulted in a regression model that enables a more reliable computational design of repression small RNAs .
Perception and behavior are thought to arise from transient associations among sub-groups of nerve cells in the brain . However , identifying which of the many active neurons are associated at any given time and how poses a challenge . Here we show that when the composite activity of a local group of cortical neurons , measured as a complex waveform in the extracellular field , exceeds a threshold , its activity pattern extending up to hundreds of milliseconds occurs without distortion at other cortical sites via fast synaptic transmission . We call these all-or-none propagated patterns “coherence potentials” , in analogy to action potentials at the single cell level . In contrast to action potentials , which are stereotypical and thus capable only of binary coding , coherence potentials are diverse and complex waveforms that can serve as a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information . The non-linear relationship between local activity and its extent of replicated spread suggests a “tipping point” that bears analogy to the propagation of innovations and economic behavior in social networks , which can spread rapidly once they have garnered a local critical mass .
As cells grow and divide , the size of the nucleus is generally maintained as a fixed proportion of cell size . The mechanism by which this nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio is maintained is unclear . Previous studies have suggested that essential gene products may be important for nuclear size control . Therefore , we have exploited the genetic tractability of fission yeast to carry out a systematic genetic screen of deleted essential genes to identify those with aberrant nuclear size phenotypes . Our study has revealed 25 novel genes that influence nuclear size and our bioinformatic analyses have implicated both RNA processing and protein complexes connecting nuclear chromatin to the cytoskeleton in nuclear size control . Our work sheds light on the biological processes that contribute to nuclear size control in fission yeast contributing to our mechanistic understanding of nuclear scaling , a biological phenomenon that is conserved through evolution .
Deep brain stimulation ( DBS ) involves delivering electrical impulses to target sites within the brain and is a proven therapy for a variety of neurological disorders . Closed loop DBS is a promising new approach where stimulation is applied according to the state of a patient . Crucial to the success of this approach is being able to predict how a patient should respond to stimulation . Our work focusses on DBS as applied to patients with essential tremor ( ET ) . On the basis of a theoretical model , which describes neurons as oscillators that respond to stimulation and have a certain tendency to synchronize , we provide predictions for how a patient should respond when stimulation is applied at a particular phase and amplitude of the ongoing tremor oscillations . Previous experimental studies of closed loop DBS provided stimulation either on the basis of ongoing phase or amplitude of pathological oscillations . Our study suggests how both of these measurements can be used to control stimulation . As part of this work , we also look for evidence for our theories in experimental data and find our predictions to be satisfied in one patient . The insights obtained from this work should lead to a better understanding of how to optimise closed loop DBS strategies .
Schistosoma mansoni is the main species causing intestinal and hepatic schistosomiasis worldwide and the snails of the genus Biomphalaria are best known for their role as intermediate hosts of the parasite . Molecular xenomonitoring for large-scale screening of snails from transmission sites to detect the presence of schistosomes is an important point to consider for snail control interventions related to schistosomiasis elimination . In our study , we have developed a new simple rapid LAMP assay to detect S . mansoni in Biomphalaria glabrata snails under different situations of infection: early prepatent period , light or low-grade infections and in snails pooled samples . Besides , a simple and rapid method for DNA extraction from snails' tissues was successfully used . This LAMP assay ( named Biompha-LAMP ) could be potentially useful for large-scale screening in searching infected snails with S . mansoni in field applicable conditions .
Dengue is a major public health problem affecting more than half of the world’s population living in tropical and subtropical regions of the world . The disease is estimated to place a heavy socio-economic burden on households , health care systems , and governments , particularly during outbreaks; however , country-specific reliable estimates of burden of disease and cost data are limited . This study estimated the public sector costs of dengue control activities and the direct costs of hospitalizations in Colombo district—the most heavily populated and urbanized district in Sri Lanka—during the epidemic year of 2012 from the Ministry of Health’s perspective . Results revealed that the Ministry’s cost of dengue control and hospitalizations totaled US$3 . 45 million ( US$1 . 50 per capita ) , of which US$971 , 360 ( US$0 . 42 per capita ) was for dengue control activities . Personnel costs accounted for the largest shares of the costs of dengue control activities ( 79% ) and of hospitalizations ( 46% ) . The results indicated a per capita cost of US$0 . 42 for dengue control activities . The average costs of hospitalization ranged between US$216–609 for pediatric cases and between US$196–866 for adult cases according to disease severity and treatment setting . These results suggest that dengue poses a major economic burden on the public health sector in Sri Lanka .
Arguably the most important cultural transition in the history of modern humans was the development of farming , since it heralded the population growth that culminated in our current massive population size . The genetic diversity of modern populations retains the traces of such past events , and can therefore be studied to illuminate the demographic processes involved in past events . Much debate has focused on the origins of agriculture in Europe some 10 , 000 years ago , and in particular whether its westerly spread from the Near East was driven by farmers themselves migrating , or by the transmission of ideas and technologies to indigenous hunter-gatherers . This study examines the diversity of the paternally inherited Y chromosome , focusing on the commonest lineage in Europe . The distribution of this lineage , the diversity within it , and estimates of its age all suggest that it spread with farming from the Near East . Taken with evidence on the origins of other lineages , this indicates that most European Y chromosomes descend from Near Eastern farmers . In contrast , most maternal lineages descend from hunter-gatherers , suggesting a reproductive advantage for farming males over indigenous hunter-gatherer males during the cultural transition from hunting-gathering to farming .
Variability is a fundamental component of our motor behaviors . It is caused by numerous factors , including sensory , planning , neuromuscular noise , as well as random external perturbations . Investigation of its underpinnings has been a driving force for numerous theoretical advances in motor control . Recently , it has been suggested that initial motor variability can promote the speed of motor learning . We first demonstrate with a series of simulations of a common learning model that different factors leading to increased variability can affect learning rate in completely different directions , instead of merely the positive trend as claimed . Second , we present experimental evidence that sensory uncertainty , which affects motor variability , instead of variability per se , determines learning speed during trial-by-trial random perturbations . Third , we present results from a meta-analysis of published studies that show the same lack of positive correlation . We conclude that motor learning is not generally facilitated by initial motor variability . Instead , their relationship should be investigated by considering the factors that affect variability in a task-specific manner .
The NF-κB family of transcription factors regulate the expression of numerous genes involved in the immune response , cell survival , differentiation , and proliferation . The interaction of the RelA subunit of NF-κB with the general co-activator protein CBP/p300 is vital for RelA-dependent gene transcription . Although the recruitment of RelA to its cognate genomic κB sites for target gene activation is well-established , the involvement of CBP/p300 in this process remains unclear . Through our structure/function-based approach we provide the molecular and functional details of the RelA:CBP/p300 interaction and its contribution to the regulation of distinct subsets of target genes . We also show that disruption of this interaction deregulates the NF-κB pathway by interfering with its negative feedback loop . Furthermore , our study indicates a possible reciprocal role for CBP/p300 in the recruitment of RelA to its target gene promoters .
Gene set analysis methods use prior biological knowledge to analyze gene expression data . This prior knowledge takes the form of predefined groups of genes , linked through their biological function . Gene set analysis methods have been successfully applied in transversal studies , their results being more sensitive and interpretable than those of methods investigating genomic data one gene at a time . The time-course gene set analysis ( TcGSA ) introduced here is an extension of such gene set analysis to longitudinal data . This method identifies a priori defined groups of genes whose expression is not stable over time , taking into account the potential heterogeneity between patients and between genes . When biological conditions are compared , it identifies the gene sets that have different expression dynamics according to these conditions . Data from 2 studies are analyzed: data from an HIV therapeutic vaccine trial , and data from a recent study on influenza and pneumococcal vaccines . In both cases , TcGSA provided new insights compared to standard approaches thanks to an increased sensitivity compared to other approaches . Those results highlight the benefits of the TcGSA method for analyzing gene expression dynamics .
Plasmodium vivax is one of five parasites causing malaria in humans . Whilst it is found across a larger swathe of the globe and potentially affects a larger number of people than its more notorious cousin , Plasmodium falciparum , it receives a tiny fraction of the research attention and financing: around 3% . This neglect , coupled with the inherently more complex nature of vivax biology , means important knowledge gaps remain that limit our current ability to control the disease effectively . This patchy knowledge is becoming recognised as a cause for concern , in particular as the global community embraces the challenge of malaria elimination which , by definition , includes P . vivax and the other less common Plasmodium species as well as P . falciparum . Particularly conspicuous is the absence of an evidence-based map describing the intensity of P . vivax endemicity in different parts of the world . Such maps have proved important for other infectious diseases in supporting international policy formulation and regional disease control planning , implementation , and monitoring . In this study we present the first systematic effort to map the global endemicity of P . vivax . We assembled nearly 10 , 000 surveys worldwide in which communities had been tested for the prevalence of P . vivax infections . Using a spatial statistical model and additional data on environmental characteristics and Duffy negativity , a blood disorder that protects against P . vivax , we estimated the level of infection prevalence in every 5×5 km grid square across areas at risk . The resulting maps provide new insight into the geographical patterns of the disease , highlighting areas of the highest endemicity in South East Asia and small pockets of Amazonia , with very low endemic setting predominating in Africa . This new level of detailed mapping can contribute to a wider shift in our understanding of the spatial epidemiology of this important parasite .
Staphylococcus aureus is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections ( SSTIs ) , the treatment of which is becoming increasingly difficult due to antibiotic resistance . An anti-S . aureus vaccine offers a potential solution , but a better understanding of how S . aureus causes pathology during SSTI is required to identify effective vaccine targets . Here , we identify an important virulence determinant during S . aureus SSTI . Clumping factor B ( ClfB ) , a surface protein expressed by S . aureus is shown to promote skin abscess formation by binding to the host protein loricrin . Targeting ClfB using a model vaccine conferred significant protection during S . aureus SSTI . In this study , we uncover an entirely novel mechanism by which S . aureus forms abscesses during skin infection , identifying an important therapeutic target for treating S . aureus SSTI .
In 2012 , pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) with Truvada was approved . It is considered one of the ‘five pillars’ by UNAIDS to drastically reduce HIV transmission . However , Truvada provides imperfect protection , is costly and individuals often fail to adhere to the once-daily regimen . Next-generation PrEP compounds , including long-acting formulations , are currently developed to improve PrEP . However , clinical trials using next-PrEP often fail . Since they involve many ( >1000 ) individuals and long durations this incurs unacceptable costs , apart from individual tragedies . While animal- and ex vivo/in vitro experiments poorly translate into human efficacy , predictive tools are urgently needed that allow for PrEP candidate prioritisation . We developed an efficient simulation tool to predict the prophylactic utility of arbitrary dosing regimen . After developing population pharmacokinetic models for dolutegravir ( DTG ) , we set out to predict its prophylactic utility in PrEP , PrEP ‘on demand’ and post-exposure prophylaxis . We found that 50mg DTG is non-inferior to Truvada in all aforementioned prophylaxis schemes . Moreover , we determined concentrations-prophylaxis profiles , which can guide release kinetics of currently developed DTG nano-formulations .
HCV induces autophagy to benefit its replication . In this report , we demonstrated that HCV infection could induce the expression of both Rubicon and UVRAG , which inhibited and stimulated the maturation of autophagosomes , respectively . The induction of Rubicon by HCV was prompt whereas the induction of UVRAG was delayed , resulting in the accumulation of autophagosomes in the early time points of viral infection . Rubicon positively regulated HCV replication , apparently by increasing the pool of autophagosomes , which could serve as the sites for HCV RNA replication . On the contrary , UVRAG , which reduced the pool of autophagosomes , inhibited HCV replication if it was over-expressed prior to HCV infection . The analysis of HCV genes indicated that the HCV NS4B protein was sufficient to induce the expression of Rubicon and the accumulation of autophagosomes . Our results thus revealed a novel mechanism used by a virus to temporally regulate the autophagic flux for its replication .
Infertility is a global public health issue that affects up to 15% of reproductive-age couples worldwide , and male infertility contributes to about 50% of these cases . However , our knowledge of the genetic causes of infertility is still limited . Nowadays , the knockout or mutant animal models have become valuable tools for identifying dysfunctional genes in the infertile population . Here , we show that CCNYL1 is specifically and highly expressed in the testis and mainly localized on the plasma membrane of spermatocytes and spermatids . Using the Ccnyl1 knockout model , we found that male but not female Ccnyl1-/- mice were infertile , accompanied by sperm defects in both motility and structural integrity . Most cyclins are known to function by forming complexes with CDKs , and our study shows for the first time that the partner for CCNYL1 is CDK16 . We found that the interaction between CCNYL1 and CDK16 was indispensable for the stability and activity of CDK16 . Phosphorylation modifications on CDK16 were also involved in this process . Our study thus reveals an important role of CCNYL1 in regulating male mouse fertility by cooperating with CDK16 and provides insights into the mechanisms underlying cases of male infertility with similar phenotypes .
During the last 30 years , enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) emerged as worldwide causes of diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome , the most common cause of acute kidney failure in children . EHEC hemolysin ( EHEC-Hly ) is one of the toxins produced by EHEC during infection that afflict the human host . EHEC-Hly belongs to a large family of toxins , whose members typically kill target cells by inserting themselves into the cell membranes , which results in pore formation and ultimately cell lysis . Here we show that EHEC-Hly associated with outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) secreted by EHEC during growth does not lyse human microvascular endothelial and intestinal epithelial cells , which are the major targets in EHEC-mediated human diseases . Instead , the OMV-associated EHEC-Hly uses the OMVs to enter the cells and acts intracellularly . The toxin separates from its carriers in lysosomes , translocates into mitochondria and triggers apoptotic death of the target cells via the mitochondrial pathway . EHEC-Hly is the first known bacterial toxin , which enters host cells via OMVs in order to attack mitochondria . The apoptotic potential of OMV-associated EHEC-Hly indicates a novel mechanism for this toxin to cause cell death during human EHEC infections .
Modification of histone proteins is an important transcriptional regulatory mechanism in eukaryotic cells . Although various histone modifications are found primarily within the coding regions of transcribed genes , how they influence transcription elongation remains unclear . Among these modifications is mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2B ( H2Bub1 ) , which is needed for co-transcriptional methylation of histone H3 at specific sites . Here we show that H2Bub1 and Cdk9 , the kinase component of positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) , are jointly regulated by a positive feedback loop: Cdk9 activity is needed for co-transcriptional H2Bub1 , and H2Bub1 in turn stimulates Cdk9 activity toward one of its major substrates , the conserved elongation factor Spt5 . We provide genetic evidence that the combined action of H2Bub1 on Spt5 phosphorylation and histone methylation accounts for the gene-regulatory effects of this modification . Surprisingly , our genetic and genome-wide studies indicate that P-TEFb and H2Bub1 act in opposition on elongating RNA polymerase . We suggest that the positive feedback linking P-TEFb and H2Bub1 helps to maintain a balance between their opposing actions . These results highlight a novel regulatory role for a conserved histone modification during transcription elongation .
Throughout the 18th and 19th centuries , yellow fever was one of the most dreaded of diseases in New and Old world port cities . Large-scale epidemics of yellow fever helped shape colonial expansion in both the Americas and in Africa , and the medical and scientific developments associated with control of the virus have been a favored topic of historians for many years . The most commonly cited hypothesis of the origin of yellow fever virus ( YFV ) in the Americas is that the virus was introduced from Africa , along with Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes , in the bilges of sailing vessels during the slave trade . Although the hypothesis of a slave trade introduction is often repeated , it has not been subject to rigorous examination using gene sequence data and modern phylogenetic techniques for estimating divergence times . Herein we have assembled a comprehensive data set of gene sequences for YFV , which we used to infer the time-scale and evolutionary history of YFV . These data show that the spread of YFV to the Americas corresponds closely with the routes and timing of the slave trade . Overall , this study demonstrates how molecular epidemiological studies can provide new insight into debates on the origin and spread of infectious disease .
Many discrete steps are involved in the progression of infectious diseases . Bottlenecks represent key points where the population size/genetic diversity is at a minimum and the pathogen is most vulnerable to intervention strategies . Our study used an infant mouse model for a comprehensive analysis of bottlenecks in infection by the major pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae . In our model , we also considered influenza A virus , a clinically important and common co-infection . The main findings reveal i ) a single cell bottleneck during host-to-host transmission and ii ) the bottleneck in transmission occurs during events between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another host . We manipulated innate immune responses involved in viral control and inflammation to show that viral co-infection allows the bottleneck in transmission to be overcome by increasing bacterial exit . Finally , we demonstrate that a specific host response stimulated by influenza A is sufficient to recapitulate effects of viral co-infection . Thus , our study identifies key vulnerable stages during S . pneumoniae infection and provides mechanistic understanding for how viral infection promotes bacterial contagion .
Hosts repeatedly bitten by phlebotomine sand flies develop species-specific antibody responses against certain sand fly salivary antigens . Salivary gland homogenate ( SGH ) is frequently used to evaluate the levels of this antibody response in host . However , SGH is less suitable for large-scale studies , since obtaining sufficient numbers of salivary glands is labor intensive and requires expertise in dissection . To replace SGH as antigen to screen for exposure to sand fly bites , specific recombinant salivary antigens were utilized . Our study assessed the human antibody reactions against recombinant salivary proteins of Phlebotomus orientalis . This sand fly species is a vector of Leishmania donovani , the causative agent of severe visceral leishmaniasis in Eastern Africa . To identify valid markers of exposure to P . orientalis in humans , we screened for anti-P . orientalis antibody responses in serum samples from individuals residing in Sudan and Ethiopia . We tested nine recombinant salivary antigens and found a combination of yellow-related protein ( mYEL1 ) and antigen 5-related protein ( mAG5 ) the best marker of exposure , accurately correlating with the levels of exposure to P . orientalis bites as determined using SGH . Thus the combination mYEL1+ mAG5 can comprise a useful epidemiological tool to determine levels of exposure to P . orientalis in populations living in endemic areas of Eastern Africa , which could help in monitoring the distribution of P . orientalis and therefore assessing suitable anti-vector campaigns .
Acquisition and dissemination of multidrug resistance genes among Enterobacteriaceae is in part driven by IncA and IncC ( A/C ) conjugative plasmids and Salmonella genomic island 1 ( SGI1 ) . Although unrelated , SGI1 relies on the self-transmissible A/C plasmids to disseminate within bacterial populations . The mechanisms allowing SGI1 to hijack the mating apparatus synthesized by A/C plasmids have not been previously established . Here , we show that IncC plasmids trigger the expression of three SGI1-borne genes that code for functional mating pore subunits distantly related to those encoded by the IncC helper plasmids . Our results indicate that these subunits alter the mating pore encoded by IncC plasmids to ensure optimal transfer of SGI1 and promote SGI1 dissemination in cell populations harboring IncC plasmids . Apart from SGI1 and relatives , documented mobilizable genomic islands are not known to code for mating pore components , possibly because of redundancy with those encoded by helper conjugative elements . Instead they usually code for mobilization proteins such as a relaxase and auxiliary factors involved in DNA recognition , processing and docking to the mating pore encoded by their helper conjugative element . From an ecological and epidemiological perspective , the strategy used by SGI1 likely confers a strong competitive advantage to SGI1 over IncC plasmids in clinical settings and could account for the high prevalence of SGI1 and relatives in multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica and Proteus mirabilis .
Cellular surveillance mechanisms , termed checkpoints , have evolved to recognize the presence of DNA damage , halt cell division , and promote repair . The purpose of these checkpoints is to prevent the next generation of cells from inheriting a damaged genome . However , after futile attempts at repair over several hours of growth arrest , yeast cells eventually adapt and continue with cell division despite the presence of persistent DNA lesions . This process of adaptation employs CDC5 , a kinase that also has essential roles in promoting cell division in the absence of DNA damage . We found that increasing levels of Cdc5 promote adaptation by suppressing the hyperphosphorylation of the checkpoint kinase Rad53 , which in turn suppresses the DNA damage checkpoint and relieves cell division arrest . Intriguingly , overexpression of PLK1 , the human homolog of CDC5 , has been reported in various tumor types and has been linked to poor prognosis . Therefore , understanding the mechanism of adaptation in yeast may provide valuable insight into the role of PLK1 overexpression in tumor progression . Two related papers , published in PLoS Biology ( van Vugt et al . , doi:10 . 1371/journal . pbio . 1000287 ) and PLoS Genetics ( Donnianni et al . , doi:10 . 1371/journal . pgen . 1000763 ) , similarly investigate the phenomenon of checkpoint adaptation .
Many pathological conditions , such as epilepsy and cortical spreading depression , are linked to abnormal extracellular ion concentrations in the brain . Understanding the underlying principles of such conditions may prove important in developing treatments for these illnesses , which incur societal costs of tens of billions annually . In order to investigate the role of ion-concentration dynamics in the pathological conditions , one must measure the spatial distribution of all ion concentrations over time . This remains challenging experimentally , which makes computational modeling an attractive tool . We have previously introduced the Kirchhoff-Nernst-Planck framework , an efficient framework for modeling electrodiffusion . In this study , we introduce a 3-dimensional version of this framework and use it to model the electrodiffusion of ions surrounding a morphologically detailed neuron . The simulation covered a 1 mm3 cylinder of tissue for over a minute and was performed in less than a day on a standard desktop computer , demonstrating the framework’s efficiency . We believe this to be an important step on the way to understanding phenomena involving ion concentration shifts at the tissue level .
Surveillance has served as a basis for important public health responses to new threats , and as a source of invaluable information for health providers and policy makers . A budget proposal to stop the U . S . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones . The present article uniquely integrates infectious disease models with economic analysis , taking advantage of a unique detailed dataset . By coupling a mathematical model with cost analysis we were able to evaluate the impact of delayed control responses to dengue fever , a mosquito-transmitted disease of global importance , in an economically developed urban environment . Our analysis clearly shows that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones that follow the introduction of vector-borne pathogens . Our findings will help provide a science-based justification for re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program . More generally our study demonstrates the power of rigorous analysis of carefully collected data for a balanced assessment of the economic implications of a public health program shift .
Dengue is an emerging infectious disease of global significance . Unsuspected dengue among children and adults presenting with undifferentiated fever in western Nicaragua has not been studied . We prospectively studied patients ≥ 1 year of age who presented with acute febrile illness in Nicaragua and systematically collected detailed information about exposures and features of the illness as well as serum to confirm acute infections . Overall , 470 ( 63 . 5% ) had evidence of prior infection with dengue virus; the proportion with antibodies against dengue virus increased with age and reached >90% in those >20 years . Thirty-eight ( 5 . 1% ) had acute dengue ( serotypes 1 and 2 ) infection . Only 8 . 1% ( 3/37 ) cases were suspected clinically to be dengue . Dengue is an important and largely unrecognized cause of fever in rural western Nicaragua and strikes predominantly those in child-bearing years , the same individuls at risk for devastating complications associated with Zika virus infection that is also transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito .
Host perception of pathogens via receptors leads to the activation of antimicrobial defence responses in all multicellular organisms , including plants . Plant-parasitic nematodes cause significant yield losses in agriculture; therefore resistance is an important trait in crop breeding . However , not much is known about the perception of nematodes in plants . Here we identified an Arabidopsis leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase , NILR1 that is specifically activated upon nematode infection . We show that NILR1 is required for the induction of immune responses initiated by nematodes and nilr1 loss-of-function mutants are hypersusceptible to a broad category of nematodes . Manipulation of NILR1 will provide new options for nematode control in crop plants in the future .
Schistosomiasis ( Bilharzia ) is a serious public health problem caused by a parasite of genus Schistosoma . There is an increasing concern about development of parasite resistance to the only drug available for treatment , praziquantel ( PZQ ) . Miltefosine , a repurposed anti-cancer drug for treatment of Leishmania infection , was shown to have activity against Schistosoma in animal models at all the parasite’s life cycle stages . In this work , we examined the potential that miltefosine could act to expose parasite surface antigens that are normally hidden during natural infection as a way to avoid lethal effects of host immunity . We used two immunobinding techniques , immunofluorescence and western immunoblotting , and a protein identification technique , namely mass spectrometry , to identify proteins exposed on the worm surface following incubation with miltefosine . Four S . mansoni proteins were shown to be exposed by miltefosine treatment: fructose-bisphosphate aldolase ( SmFBPA ) , Sm22 . 6 , alkaline phosphatase and malate dehydrogenase . Antibodies specific for these antigens recognised and bound to the surface of early-stage schistosome larvae and antibodies specific for SmFBPA induced clumping of the larvae , suggesting a potential role in early parasite killing and protection against infection . These antibodies may be utilised to increase miltefosine’s anti-parasite efficacy and may be involved in resistance to re-infection .
Iron homeostasis is important for all living organisms; too much iron confers cell toxicity , and too little iron results in reduced cell fitness . While crucial for many cellular processes in both man and pathogens , a battle for this essential nutrient erupts during infection between the host and the invading bacteria . Iron is principally stored in ferritin , a large molecule able to bind several thousand iron ions . Although host ferritins represent a mine of iron for pathogens , studies of the mechanisms involved in its acquisition by bacteria are scarce . In the human opportunistic pathogen Bacillus cereus , the surface protein IlsA is able to bind several host iron sources in vitro . In this study , we show that IlsA acts as a ferritin receptor and enhances iron release from the ferritin through direct interaction with each ferritin subunit . Moreover , we demonstrate that the siderophore bacillibactin , a small secreted iron chelator , is essential for ferritin iron acquisition and takes part in B . cereus virulence . We propose a new iron acquisition model that provides new insights into bacterial host adaptation .
Circadian clocks are biological timekeeping devices with a rhythm of 24 hours in living cells pertaining to all kingdoms of life . They help organisms to coordinate their behavior with the day-night cycle . The circadian clock of the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus is one of the simplest and best characterized clocks in biology . The central clock component is the protein KaiC , which is phosphorylated and dephosphorylated in a cyclical manner with a 24 hr period . While we know from elementary thermodynamics that oscillations require a net turnover of fuel molecules , in this case ATP , how ATP hydrolysis drives the clock has remained elusive . Based on recent experimental observations and building on ideas from existing models , we construct the most detailed mathematical model of this system to date . KaiC consists of two domains , CI and CII , which each can bind ATP , yet only CII can be phosphorylated . Moreover , KaiC can exist in two conformational states , an active one in which the phosphorylation level tends to rise , and an inactive one in which it tends to fall . Our model predicts that ATP hydrolysis in the CI domain is the principal energetic driver of the clock , driving the switching between the two conformational states , while phosphorylation in the CII domain provides the timer for the conformational switch . The coupling between ATP hydrolysis in the CI domain and phosphorylation in the CII domain leads to novel testable predictions .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) chronic infection is one of the major causes of hepatocellular carcinoma . HBV infection is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction . We previously showed that persistent infection of HBV requires rapid clearance of impaired mitochondria by mitophagy , a cellular quality control process that insures survival of HBV infected cells . During the process , Parkin , an RBR E3 ligase , is recruited to mitochondria to induce mitophagy . In this study , we show that the Parkin , plays a critical role in the modulation of innate immune signaling . Using HBV expressing cells , we show that the Parkin recruits linear ubiquitin assembly complex ( LUBAC ) to the mitochondria and subsequently inhibits downstream signaling of mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein ( MAVS ) . Mitochondrial LUBAC then catalyzes linear ubiquitin chains on MAVS , which abrogates its downstream events such as MAVS-TRAFs interaction and abolishes IRF3 phosphorylation . The results of this study highlight the molecular details explaining how HBV can suppress interferon synthesis implicating a mitophagy-independent role of Parkin . HBV-induced mitochondrial damage serves as the platform for recruitment of Parkin and LUBAC , which together modify MAVS by ubiquitination and cripples its downstream signaling .
Human inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) is a family of chronic inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract which affect genetically susceptible individuals . IBD is a lifelong disease involving mostly young people , often severely . Crohn's disease ( CD ) and ulcerative colitis are the two major forms of IBD . Although the exact cause of these diseases remains unknown , both genetic and environmental factors together play significant roles in the disease pathogenesis . Several lines of evidence implicate commensal bacteria as an important pathogenic element in clinical disease , particularly in CD . We recently identified a novel microbial gene , I2 , encoded by Pseudomonas fluorescens , a gram-negative commensal , which may be involved in the pathogenesis of CD . Both molecular and immunological approaches were used to identify the human receptor for the microbial antigen encoded by I2 , to characterize the ligand-receptor interactions , and to determine the three-dimensional structure of the microbial gene product . In particular , we show that the pfiT is a T cell superantigen , which may help to explain how microbial flora can trigger immune activation in IBD , and may provide the groundwork for novel therapies to treat CD .
Nanog is a key factor influencing the decision of a stem cell to remain pluripotent or differentiate . Each embryonic stem cell ( ESC ) in a population exhibits fluctuating Nanog levels resulting in heterogeneity which affects cell fate specification . The allelic regulation of Nanog was demonstrated recently but its implications on population heterogeneity are unclear . We developed a multiscale population balance equation ( PBE ) model and compared our results with pertinent experimental studies . Under allelic control the profile of Nanog features three peaks or distinct states . Transcriptional noise causes the distribution to become bimodal as suggested previously . When stem cells carrying a reporter transgene in an allelically regulated locus were examined , we observed non-matching distributions of the endogenous and reporter proteins . This led us to investigate the performance of reporter systems depending on insertion of the transgene in one or both alleles and the protein degradation dynamics . Lastly , our model was employed to address how allelic regulation affects the maintenance of pluripotency in stem cells with a single Nanog allele deletion . A fraction of these cells remains pluripotent while deletion of a single allele does not simply reduce NANOG uniformly for all ESCs but modulates NANOG heterogeneity directly .
An overarching endeavor in systems biology is to characterize and understand the allocation of an organism’s proteome . Common approaches to characterize proteome allocation are based on annotations of protein functions or transcriptional regulatory targets . Here , we develop a novel approach based on model-predicted proteome utilization . This approach reveals that in many environments , a large fraction of the proteome is unused . Unused protein expression is known to incur costs on organismal fitness . We show that changes in the allocation of the proteome to used versus unused fractions can account for the variability in growth rates observed across environments and is a common mechanism to increase growth rates in laboratory evolution experiments . We compare our approach to classify the proteome based on model-predicted utilization to more traditional approaches to reveal biological functions and transcriptional regulators underlying the expression of unused protein . Expression of these functions may reflect ecological trade-offs between growth , nutrient-readiness , and stress resistance .
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) is a chronic disease which can lead to complications such as heart disease , stroke , hypertension , blindness due to diabetic retinopathy , amputations from peripheral vascular diseases , and kidney disease from diabetic nephropathy . The increasing prevalence and complications of T2D are likely to increase the health and economic burden of individuals , families , health systems , and countries . Our study carried out in three major Asian ethnic groups ( Chinese , Malays , and Indians ) in Singapore suggests that the findings of studies carried out in populations of European ancestry ( which represents most studies to date ) may be relevant to populations in Asia . However , our study also raises the possibility that different genes , and within the genes different variants , may confer susceptibility to T2D in these populations . These findings are particularly relevant in Asia , where the greatest growth of T2D is expected in the coming years , and emphasize the importance of studying diverse populations when trying to localize the regions of the genome associated with T2D . In addition , we may need to consider novel methods for combining data across populations .
Unlike the model ascomycetous budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , microtubule organizing centers ( MTOCs ) coalesce to form the spindle pole body ( SPB ) in C . neoformans . This process also ensures unclustered kinetochores to gradually cluster in this organism . As C . neoformans cells enter mitosis , the nuclear envelope ruptures and the nucleus eventually moves to the daughter bud before division . Here , we combine cell and systems biology techniques to understand the key determinants of nuclear division in C . neoformans . We show that the evolutionarily conserved Aurora B kinase Ipl1 enters the nucleus during the mitotic phase as cells undergo semi-open mitosis . Ipl1 regulates dynamics of cytoplasmic microtubules , cytosolic proteins such as Bim1 and dynein-mediated cortical forces and integrity of the nuclear envelope to ensure timely kinetochore clustering and nuclear division in this medically relevant human pathogenic budding yeast .
Synonymous mutations—once considered “silent” because they do not alter the gene product’s amino-acid sequence—are now emerging as potential drivers of cancer . Our recent investigation of an aggressive medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) revealed a novel mechanism that could underlie such effects . The MTC analyzed harbored a somatic p . Cys634Arg mutation of the RET protooncogene ( a well-known MTC driver ) . A second RET substitution ( p . Cys630= ) discovered in the germline had been considered clinically irrelevant because of its synonymous nature . Our next-generation sequencing analysis of the patient’s cancer tissues revealed that the RET mutations were in cis . We also found that RET mRNA levels in patient’s MTC were significantly higher than those found in seven other MTCs with various amino-acid substitutions at position 634 in RET . Subsequent experiments demonstrated that the presence of the synonymous mutation created new exonic splicing enhancer motifs in the mutant allele , which led to more efficient maturation of its transcript and increased expression of a constitutively active RET receptor .
Infectious diseases afflict a majority of the human population around the world , from the common cold to the devastating malaria parasite . As technology has evolved , DNA sequencing emerged as a revolutionary and rapid method for diagnosing human infections . As part of our efforts to boost the ability of scientists to identify the source of an infection by sequencing , we present here a computational method for removing erroneous or misleading sequences from existing DNA databases . When we applied this method to a database of more than 200 eukaryotic pathogens , we were able to successfully and accurately identify the true pathogens infecting real human samples .
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a major health problem in Uganda , as there are recurrent sporadic outbreaks of the disease in traditionally endemic areas in south-east Uganda , and continued spread to new unaffected areas in central Uganda . In this study , we evaluate the evolutionary dynamics underpinning the origin of new disease foci and the impact of host species on parasite genetic diversity in Uganda . We found three distinct genetic clusters of T . brucei in Uganda and southwestern Kenya . Clusters 1 and 3 include isolates from central and southern Uganda , while cluster 2 contains mostly isolates from southwestern Kenya . These three clusters are not sorted by subspecies designation ( T . b . brucei vs T . b . rhodesiense ) , host or date of collection . Our results show expansion of the disease to new foci in central Uganda occurred from the northward spread of T . b . rhodesiense . They also confirm the emergence of the human infective strains from non-infective T . b . brucei strains of different genetic backgrounds , and the importance of cattle as Tbr reservoir , as confounders that shape the epidemiology of sleeping sickness in the region .
TXNIP has many biological functions , including the inhibition of tumor growth , suppression of hepatocarcinogenesis , and regulation of glucose metabolism and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation in different cell types . However , little is known about its role in the inflammatory process . In this study , our results demonstrate that TXNIP plays a critical role in the control of lethal endotoxin-induced shock by controlling NO production in innate immune cells via the regulation of iNOS expression . This regulation is mediated through changes in the activation and translocation of NF-κB that affect the NF-κB/iNOS pathway . In addition , excessive NO reduces the production of IL-1β via S-nitrosylation of the NLRP3 inflammasome . Subsequently , the survival of Txnip−/− mice is significantly decreased due to hypothermia and hypoglycemia . Overall , these results suggest that TXNIP is a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of inflammatory diseases .
Proper response to DNA damage and repair of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) is important to maintain genomic integrity and promote both accurate chromosome segregation and tumor suppression . Here we define the roles of a previously uncharacterized and conserved protein , ZTF-8 , which is required for proper DNA damage checkpoint activation as well as DSB repair . Specifically , we provide a direct demonstration that ZTF-8 participates in both mitotic and meiotic DSB repair and in the meiotic DNA damage checkpoint via interacting with the 9-1-1 complex in the C . elegans germline . We propose that ZTF-8 is involved in promoting repair at blocked replication fork sites and meiotic DSBs in part by transducing DNA damage checkpoint signaling via the 9-1-1 DNA damage response complex .
How are the right types of cells produced in the right place , at the right time and in the correct numbers , in a developing tissue ? One example of where progress has been made towards answering this question is the embryonic spinal cord . In this tissue , extracellular signals , such as the morphogen sonic hedgehog ( Shh ) , control the pattern of generation of molecularly distinct sets of neural progenitors , from which different classes of motor neurons and interneurons are generated . Motor neurons differentiate at a much higher rate than the adjacent interneurons , and this ensures that more motor neurons than interneurons are generated and in an appropriate temporal sequence . To understand the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon , we investigated the dynamics of the Shh-controlled gene regulatory network operating as motor neurons form from progenitors . We used these data to uncover the accompanying regulatory mechanisms , and this identified two functions for the transcription factor Olig2 . First , Olig2 is essential for establishing motor neuron progenitor identity downstream of Shh signaling . Subsequently , Olig2 directly promotes neuronal differentiation in motor neuron progenitors by suppressing the expression of Hes genes , negative regulators of neuronal differentiation . Together , our findings reveal a tight coupling between the genetic networks that control patterning and neuronal differentiation in motor neuron progenitors and thereby explain their characteristic early and rapid rate of neuronal differentiation .
Antibodies against influenza target the highly mutable proteins on the virus surface . Influenza pandemics are caused by novel viruses whose surface proteins are so different from previously circulating viruses as to be unrecognizable by most individuals' antibodies . We hypothesized that T cells might be capable of reducing the severity of infection with pandemic influenza viruses , against which antibodies are ineffective . Experiments in mice have supported this idea , but the ability of T cells to protect humans against influenza has remained unclear . We therefore tested our hypothesis in macaque monkeys , whose physiology and immune systems closely resemble those of humans . We used a seasonal virus to “prime” macaques to make immune responses against influenza and found that these animals were able to control infection with 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza viruses more effectively than animals that had not been “primed . ” Protection was associated with T cell responses , but not antibodies , that were quickly “recalled” after challenge with the pandemic virus . Our results suggest that “cross-reactive” T cells could play an important role in controlling influenza in humans . Vaccines designed to induce strong T cell responses in addition to antibodies could offer enhanced protection against emerging influenza viruses .
Serological investigations indicate that Q fever is present nationwide in China . However , this zoonosis is poorly understood , and nearly all cases of Q fever are retrospectively diagnosed because of the lack of laboratory diagnosis techniques . Traditional serodiagnosis requires a pair of serum samples from the acute and convalescent stages of infection , which is not useful as an early test of C . burnetii . In this study , we developed a rapid , simple and sensitive loop-mediated isothermal amplification ( LAMP ) assay that targets the htpAB gene of C . burnetii , in which the lowest limits of the LAMP assay were 1 copy per reaction and the specificity of the LAMP assay was 100% . The sensitivity of the LAMP was significantly higher than that of the real time PCR on evaluation of its utility of detection clinical Q fever patients samples and domestic animals samples . Using the developed LAMP assay , Q fever was first confirmed in the Yi Li area , Xinjiang Province , and the positive rate was 33 . 3% for unknown febrile patients and 21 . 0% for domestic animals . Here we concluded that the developed LAMP assay is ideal for the early diagnosis of Q fever , especially in rural areas in China .
We demonstrate that a particular subtype of transcriptional enhancers , which we termed ES-specific enhancers ( ESSEs ) , are especially prone to DNA methylation perturbations in cancer . Moreover , the methylation status of ESSEs , but not that of the enhancers of tissue stem cells , is associated with gene activity in cancer cell lines and in fresh tumor samples . Extending the previous reports on the hypermethylation of particular gene promoters in cancer , our analyses revealed both hyper- and hypo-methylation of regulatory elements in cancer , in association with silencing and enhancing , respectively , of important cancer genes . Thus , the discovered sites are appealing candidates for epigenetic control of cancer expression profiles .
Experimental evidence has recently been accumulating to suggest that fitness landscape ruggedness is common in a variety of organisms . Rugged landscapes arise from interactions between genetic variants , called epistasis , which can lead to fitness valleys or plateaus . The time needed to cross such fitness valleys or plateaus exhibits a rich dependence on population size , since stochastic effects have higher importance in small populations , increasing the probability of fixation of neutral or deleterious mutants . This may lead to an advantage of population subdivision , a possibility which has been strongly debated for nearly one hundred years . In this work , we quantitatively determine when , and to what extent , population subdivision accelerates valley and plateau crossing . Using the simple model of an asexual population subdivided into identical demes connected by gobal migration , we derive the conditions under which crossing by a subdivided population is driven by its fastest deme , thus giving rise to the maximal speedup . Our analytical predictions are verified using stochastic simulations . We investigate the effect of varying the degree of subdivision of a population . We generalize our results to weakly beneficial intermediates and to different population structures . We discuss the magnitude and robustness of the effect for realistic parameter values .
The Aedes aegypti mosquito transmits arboviruses that cause dengue , Zika , chikungunya and yellow fever . These viruses are endemic in tropical and subtropical regions of the world placing 2 . 5 billion people at risk of infection . Transmission is critically dependent upon the replication of these viruses in both human and mosquito hosts . Successful viral replication is greatly influenced by the biochemical environment of the host cell or tissue and flaviviruses rearrange this environment to benefit their needs . Host-cell derived metabolites such as lipids , sugars and amino acids are utilized to produce progeny virions , help evade the host immune system and enable successful completion of the life cycle . In this study , we applied high-resolution mass spectrometry to understand the alteration of the biochemical landscape of the mosquito during infection by dengue virus . We focused on the mosquito midgut , as this is the initial site of infection . We identified several metabolites that exhibited dynamic profiles during the course of viral infection and replication . By pinpointing biochemical “choke points” required for viral replication , we can devise strategies that will stall virus replication in the mosquito and prevent its transmission to humans .
Understanding and preventing life-threatening irregular electrical heart rhythms includes basic experimental , numerical , and theoretical research . Computer models of the electrical dynamics of cardiac cells and impulse propagation throughout the heart are essential tools of this research . For example , simulations of electrical activity such as rotating ‘spiral waves’ have been used to understand how irregular heart rhythms are maintained . However , existing models are derived exclusively from sub-cellular data under a variety of environmental conditions and species . These models tend to be exceedingly complex including hundreds of variables and parameters which make them difficult to validate and analyze . Using experimental data from one species ( rabbit ) under nearly identical physiological conditions , we developed a simple model of the electrical activity of a cardiac cell derived from sub-cellular , cellular , and tissue experimental data . This model reproduces cellular excitability and its recovery as well as several important “emergent” phenomena including beat-to-beat cellular alterations and unstable spiral waves . Under some conditions , unstable spiral waves in this model give rise to continuous formation of new spiral waves ( i . e . , “spiral wave breakup” ) which is thought to be the underlying cause of cardiac fibrillation and sudden cardiac death .
Double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are among the most deleterious lesions that may occur on DNA . Some physiological processes , however , involve the introduction of DSBs and their subsequent repair . In the ciliate Paramecium , programmed DSBs initiate the extensive genome rearrangements that take place at each sexual cycle , during the development of the somatic nucleus . In particular , short intervening germline sequences ( one every 1–2 kb along the genome ) are spliced out from coding and non-coding regions . In this study , we present evidence that this process is a two-step mechanism and involves DNA cleavage at both ends of each excised sequence , followed by DSB repair . We demonstrate that cellular end-joining proteins , Ligase IV and its partner , Xrcc4p , are essential for the closure of broken excision sites , which has to be precise at the nucleotide level to allow the assembly of functional genes . This precision stands in sharp contrast to the notion that end joining is an error-prone DSB repair pathway . Therefore , Paramecium provides an excellent model for analysis of an intrinsically precise end joining pathway that has been recruited for genome-wide DSB repair .
Chagas disease remains a burden for public health systems in Latin American countries . Several authors believe that sudden death is the main cause of death in this population . So many efforts have been made to prevent sudden death in Chagas disease . In order to verify if sudden death is the leading cause of death in Chagasic heart failure , we performed a subanalysis of the REMADHE prospective trial , which included a population of outpatients in a tertiary referral center for heart failure . We grouped patients according to etiology ( Chagas vs non-Chagas ) and modes of death that were classified as progressive heart failure death , sudden death , other cardiovascular death , noncardiovascular death or unknown death . Our study showed that in this end of the spectrum of presentation of Chagas disease , with systolic heart dysfunction , progressive heart failure is the main mode of death . These data have implications for the development of new strategies for prevention of chagasic heart failure .
Plants are constantly exposed to microorganisms and , like animals , developed innate immune systems to prevent infections . Although these immune systems protect plants against most potential pathogens , the molecular mechanisms underlying nonhost immunity remain obscure . Here , we describe a novel strategy of plant defenses identified as a target of the geminivirus nuclear shuttle protein ( NSP ) that suppresses the activity of the transmembrane receptor NIK ( NSP-interacting kinase ) . In addition , we identified a ribosomal protein , rpL10A , as the immediate downstream component of the pathway . Based on our findings , we propose that this pathway is elicited by activation of the receptor NIK1 , which results in phosphorylation and translocation of rpL10A to the nucleus . We also provided genetic and biochemical evidence that this regulated trafficking of rpL10A may effectively mount a defense strategy that negatively impacts geminivirus proliferation or movement . Nevertheless , the virulence function of NSP from the bipartite geminivirus CaLCuV ( Cabbage leaf curl virus ) is capable of overcoming the NIK1-mediated defense and thereby enhances the pathogenicity of CaLCuV in Arabidopsis . The NIK1-mediated signaling response may be involved in restricting the host range of other viruses .
Thermally dimorphic pathogenic fungi are responsible for potentially life-threatening diseases of immunocompetent and immunocompromised individuals . These microorganisms grow as conidia-producing mycelia in the environment , which when inhaled by the host convert to the pathogenic yeast form at 37°C . During adaptation and growth , fungi interact with host immune cells and must cope with defense mechanisms such as imposed-oxidative stress ( e . g . , reactive oxygen species; ROS ) . Alternative oxidase ( AOX ) is an enzyme recently implicated in the reduction of ROS production by the mitochondria when triggered by external stimuli , such as temperature and ROS . During this work we have evaluated the relevance of AOX during infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis , the etiological agent of one of the most prevalent mycoses in Latin America , paracoccidioidomycosis . We show that PbAOX gene expression is stimulated after interaction with alveolar macrophages or in the presence of H2O2 and is essential for survival against fungicidal activity of both the immune cells and the ROS compound . Moreover , decreasing PbAOX gene expression in P . brasiliensis led to increased survival of infected mice . Altogether , our data supports a relevant role for AOX in the virulence of P . brasiliensis .
The activity of ‘place cells’ in hippocampal area CA3 systematically changes as a function of the animal's position in an arena as well as contextual variables like the color or shape of enclosing walls . Large changes to the local environment , e . g . moving the animal to a different room , can induce a complete reorganization of place-cell firing locations . Such ‘global remapping’ reveals that memory for different environments is encoded as separate spatial maps . Smaller changes to features within an environment can induce a modulation of place cell firing rates without affecting their firing locations . This kind of ‘rate remapping’ is still poorly understood . In this paper we describe a computational model in which discrete memories for contextual features were stored locally within a spatial map of place cells . This network structure supports retrieval of both positional and contextual information from an arbitrary cue , as required by an episodic memory structure . The activity of the network qualitatively matches empirical data from rate remapping experiments , both on the population level and the level of single place cells . The results support the idea that CA3 rate remapping reflects content-addressable memories stored as multimodal attractor states in the hippocampus .
During the course of infection , trophozoites of E . histolytica need to cope with the oxidative stress in order to survive under the oxidative environment of its host . As a result of the absence of the key eukaryotic anti-oxidative defense system , it needs to employ novel defense strategies . Several studies such as transcriptomic profiling of trophozoites exposed to oxidative stress , and biochemical and functional analysis of individual proteins has been done in the past . Since , oxidative stress damages several metabolic enzymes , and modulate expression of many genes , it is important to analyze the detailed metabolomic response of E . histolytica upon oxidative stress to understand the role of metabolism in combating oxidative stress . In the present study , we demonstrated that oxidative stress causes glycolytic inhibition and redirection of metabolic flux towards glycerol production , chitin biosynthesis , and the non-oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway .
Perturbation of the expression level of IKAROS , a transcription factor critical during hematopoiesis , is associated with malignant transformation in mice and humans . The importance of IKAROS expression levels for the control of target-gene regulation was addressed in hematopoietic progenitor cells . The collaboration between IKAROS and the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex can promote gene activation or repression . IKAROS can also interact with the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b ( P-TEFb ) and the Protein Phosphatase 1 ( PP1 ) , an important P-TEFb regulator . Immunoaffinity purification of IKAROS interacting proteins and Fast Protein Liquid Chromatography analysis revealed a dynamic interaction between IKAROS , PP1 and the newly defined NuRD-P-TEFb complex . This complex can be targeted to specific genes in cells expressing high levels of IKAROS to promote productive transcription elongation . Based on our results we suggest that , in addition to P-TEFb , the NuRD complex and PP1 are required to facilitate transcription elongation of IKAROS-target genes and normal differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells .
The Caribbean island of Trinidad experiences periodic rabies virus ( RABV ) outbreaks within the livestock population . In this study , we inferred the evolutionary history of RABV in the Americas and reconstructed past patterns of RABV geographic spread in order to address the question of whether Trinidadian outbreaks arise from locally maintained RABV or are the result of virus importation from the mainland ( presumably via infected bats ) . Our results provide statistical support for three importation events that gave rise to each of three Trinidadian vampire bat-associated lineages identified in the study . They also indicate limited periods of in situ evolution within Trinidad following each of these introductions . The results also support Mexico and Brazil as major epicenters for the expansion of RABV associated with vampire bats throughout the Americas and consequently to Trinidad . The findings of our study are particularly relevant to local RABV monitoring and control . In addition to justifying vampire bats as the main target for active rabies surveillance and control activities in Trinidad , they suggest that more intense surveillance of regions that lie close to the mainland may be warranted . Finally , in light of these findings , further studies should be conducted to investigate the relationship between RABV spatiotemporal dynamics and vampire bat population ecology .
Understanding the development of the brain is an important challenge . Progress on this problem will give insight into how the brain works and what can go wrong to cause developmental disorders like autism and learning disability . This paper examines the development of the outer part of the mammalian brain , the cerebral cortex . This part of the brain contains different areas with specialised functions . Over the past decade , several genes have been identified that play a major role in the development of cortical areas . During development , these genes are expressed in different patterns across the surface of the cortex . Experiments have shown that these genes interact with each other so that they each regulate how much other genes in the group are expressed . However , the experimental data are consistent with many different regulatory networks . In this study , we use a computational model to systematically screen many possible networks . This allows us to predict which regulatory interactions between these genes are important for the patterns of gene expression in the cortex to develop correctly .
A wealth of recent studies has demonstrated the role of Bmi1-stimulated histone ubiquitylation in the repression of transcription at targeted genetic loci . However , the repressive function of this mark has never been extrapolated genome-wide . We have used deep sequencing technology to explore the global deposition of Bmi1-dependent H2A ubiquitylation ( uH2A ) in mouse embryonic fibroblast cells . Our study confirms the gene-specific repressive function of the uH2A mark on a genome-wide scale . In addition , we also analyzed the general trends of uH2A distribution with respect to genomic elements , such as various classes of gene promoters and transcribed regions . Our work implies that the mechanism of uH2A distribution in differentiated cells may vary from that in embryonic stem cells . Given the importance of the uH2A modification in fundamental biological processes and cancer , insight into the distribution of this modification has reaching implications in understanding the contribution of epigenetic silencing to cellular physiology .
During pregnancy , epithelial cells of the mammary gland begin to undergo differentiation into functional alveolar cells that , during lactation , will produce and secrete milk proteins , thereby providing nourishment to offspring . Following lactation , the majority of alveolar cells die and the mammary gland remodels to a pre-pregnancy-like state in a process called involution . However , some alveolar cells survive involution , and these cells are thought to serve as alveolar progenitors that are able to rapidly proliferate and differentiate into milk-producing cells in subsequent pregnancies . Keeping alveolar cells from undergoing terminal differentiation during pregnancy and involution is vital for the preservation of an alveolar progenitor population . Here , we show that the long noncoding RNA , PINC , is downregulated in the mammary gland between late pregnancy and early lactation , when alveolar cells begin to terminally differentiate . This reduction of PINC levels may be necessary for lactation , as overexpression of PINC inhibits differentiation , while knockdown of PINC enhances differentiation of mammary epithelial cells . Finally , we find that PINC interacts with the chromatin-modifying complex PRC2 , suggesting epigenetic regulation may be involved in maintaining alveolar progenitors in the pregnant and involuting mammary gland . These results emphasize the potential importance of lncRNA-PRC2 involvement in regulating cell fate during development .
Among the several protection mechanisms raised by mammalian organisms against viral infections , an early line of defense consists of cellular proteins known as restriction factors that interfere with viral replication . PML , also known as TRIM19 , is one of these proteins and has been shown to inhibit diverse viruses . PML is mainly expressed in the nucleus , where it forms dynamic structures known as PML nuclear bodies that recruit many other proteins , such as Sp100 and Daxx . While the role of PML/TRIM19 in antiviral defense is well documented , its effect on HIV-1 infection remains unclear . Here we show that PML is rapidly re-localized in the cytoplasm of cells infected by HIV-1 and other retroviruses and interferes with reverse-transcription of incoming retroviral RNA . We were able to demonstrate that PML does not inhibit retroviral infection directly but through the stabilization of one of its well-characterized partners , Daxx . In the presence of PML , Daxx inhibits an early step of reverse-transcription thereby interfering with retroviral infections . Our findings unravel a novel antiviral function for PML and its partner Daxx .
Proteins fold into complicated highly asymmetrical 3-D shapes . When a protein is found to fold in a shape that is sufficiently similar to other proteins whose functional roles are known , this can significantly aid in predicting function in the new protein . In addition , the areas where structure is highly conserved in a set of such similar proteins may indicate functional or structural importance of the conserved region . Given a set of protein structures , the protein structural alignment problem is to determine the superimposition of the backbones of these protein structures that places as much of the structures as possible into close spatial alignment . We introduce an algorithm that allows local flexibility in the structures when it brings them into closer alignment . The algorithm performs as well as its competitors when the structures to be aligned are highly similar , and outperforms them by a larger and larger margin as similarity decreases . In addition , for the related classification problem that asks if the degree of structural similarity between two proteins implies if they likely evolved from a common ancestor , a scoring function assesses , based on the best alignment generated for each pair of protein structures , whether they should be declared sufficiently structurally similar or not . This score can be used to predict when two proteins have sufficiently similar shapes to likely share functional characteristics .
Greatwall kinase regulates a switch between kinase and phosphatase activity during mitotic entry and constitutes an essential element of mitotic control . This control system is further complicated by the fact that Greatwall itself is regulated via phosphorylation and acts by phosphorylating its substrates ENSA and ARPP19 . A missing link in this central mitotic switch is the phosphatase that counteracts Greatwall and its target Ensa . We have used mathematical modeling and experimental validation to identify these phosphatases . We demonstrate genetic evidence that Greatwall phosphorylation is counteracted by PP2A/B55 , while Fcp1 regulates ENSA dephosphorylation . Based on these findings we present a new model for the regulation of mammalian cell division .
A significant obstacle to developing an HIV vaccine is the potential for the virus to escape from the immune response induced by immunization . We previously showed that subjects in a Zambian cohort developed potent neutralizing antibody responses shortly after becoming infected by subtype C HIV-1 , and here we have extended those findings to demonstrate that cycles of viral escape occurred in two of these subjects despite a potent immune response . We investigated the determinants of immune escape , and found that a single common mutational pathway was not sufficient to facilitate viral escape . Instead , we demonstrate that multiple strategies , including potential changes in glycosylation pattern , direct alteration of an epitope sequence , and cooperative envelope interactions , were used independently or together to evade neutralization . We also recovered individual monoclonal antibodies from one of the subjects and found that a single mutation can confer escape from different neutralizing antibody specificities . The studies demonstrate the remarkable flexibility of subtype C HIV-1 , and suggest that the envelope glycoproteins are uniquely equipped to adjust to the specific properties of the immune response in each newly infected host .
Selection affects patterns of genomic variation , but it is unclear how much the effects of selection vary across plant genomes , particularly in noncoding regions . To determine the strength and extent of selective signatures across the genome , we sequenced and analyzed genomes from 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals . Because C . grandiflora has experienced a large , stable effective population size , we expect that selection signatures will not be overly distorted by demographic effects . Our analysis shows that positive and negative selection acting on new mutations have broadly shaped patterns of genomic diversity in coding regions but not in most noncoding regions . However , when we focus only on noncoding regions that show evidence of constraint across species , we see evidence for strong positive and negative selection . In addition , we find that genes with high expression experience stronger negative selection than genes with low expression , but the extent of positive selection appears to be equivalent across expression categories .
Epstein-Barr Virus ( EBV ) reprograms host cell transcription through multiple mechanisms . Here , we show that EBV-encoded transcriptional co-activator EBNA2 drives the formation of new chromosome binding sites for host cell factors RBP-jκ and EBF1 . The formation of these new sites is EBNA2-dependent . These newly formed sites have overlapping or neighboring consensus binding sites for these factors , but are only co-occupied in the presence of EBNA2 . Newly formed , co-occupied binding sites are highly enriched at promoter and enhancer regulatory elements of genes activated by EBV and required for B-cell proliferation and survival . These findings indicate that EBNA2 drives cooperative and combinatorial transcription factor interactions on chromosomal DNA . We suggest that models depicting the static binding of master regulatory transcription factors to consensus binding sites be revised , and that co-activators , like EBNA2 , induce dynamic and combinatorial selection of genome-wide binding sites to alter gene regulation .
The Neovolcanic axis ( NVA ) traverses Mexico at the 19th parallel and is considered to be a geographic barrier to many species . We have demonstrated that the intersection of the NVA with the coast in Veracruz state is a barrier to gene flow in Ae . aegypti . This was unexpected because the intersection of the NVA with the Pacific Coast is not a barrier to gene flow . Further studies to identify the actual mechanism ( s ) that is ( are ) contributing to the lack of gene flow will provide important information on the trafficking potential of Ae . aegypti , which will be of great value to Ae . aegypti control programs . There are significant differences in vector competence for dengue virus between mosquitoes north and south of the NVA , but the epidemiological significance of these finding remains to be determined . Future studies will determine if , for example , the genes that condition midgut infection and vector competence of Ae . aegypti populations provide biomarkers for risk of dengue transmission . Such biomarkers could be of great value to control programs in resource limited environments by allowing targeting of vector control efforts to areas at most risk for epidemic dengue and dengue hemorrhagic fever .
Cell cycle regulation of the bacterium Escherichia coli has been studied for many years , and its understanding is complicated by the fact that overlapping replication cycles occur during growth in rich media . Under such conditions cells initiate several copies of the chromosome . The active form of the CDC6-like DnaA protein is required for initiation of synchronous and well-timed replication cycles and is in a sense the motor of the cell cycle machine . It has long been debated whether it is the accumulation of enough ATP-DnaA that triggers initiation and determines the replication frequency . In this work we have constructed a strain where the “accumulation of ATP-DnaA triggers initiation” model could be tested . Our results indicate that this model requires some modification . We suggest that cell cycle regulation in E . coli has similarities to that of eukaryotes in that origins are “licensed” to initiate by a cell cycle motor and that the precise timing depends on other signaling .
When predicting the structure of a network ( a gene network , a protein network , a metabolic network or a neuronal network ) based upon simultaneously recorded multi-variable temporal data , a major tool is either the Bayesian network or the Granger causality . We focused on the Granger causality , and it has become increasingly important in recent years because of the huge body of temporal data available in , for example , molecular biology ( microarray gene data ) and physiology ( multi-electrode array recordings of multi-neurons ) . However , all methods of estimating the Granger causality tend to ignore latent variables , which are ubiquitous in experimental data . Here , we have developed a method that can eliminate the influence of latent variables in predicting the network structure . The method is then extended to the frequency domain . The ability of the method to eliminate the influence of latent variables is extensively verified in toy models and then applied to a gene circuit , a neuronal network , and a network of brain areas . Both in the time and frequency domains , our approach can be used to detect a network structure when multi-dimensional temporal data are available .
Advances in sequencing technologies are dramatically changing the volume and type of data collected in genetic studies . Although most genetic studies so far have focused on individuals of European ancestry , recent studies are increasingly being performed in individuals of admixed ancestry ( i . e . , with recent ancestors from multiple continents , e . g . , Latino Americans ) . A key component in such studies is the accurate inference of continental ancestry at each segment in the genome of these individuals . In this work we present accurate and robust methods that use continent-specific variants ( i . e . , genetic variants observed only in individuals of a given continent ) , now readily accessible through sequencing technology , to perform extremely fast and accurate inference of the ancestral origin of each genomic segment in recently admixed individuals .
Prior studies have reported that ~15% of expressed genes show a circadian expression pattern in association with a specific function . A series of experimental and computational studies of gene expression in various murine tissues has led us to a different conclusion . By applying a new analysis strategy and a number of alternative algorithms , we identify baseline oscillation in almost 100% of all genes . While the phase and amplitude of oscillation vary between different tissues , circadian oscillation remains a fundamental property of every gene . Reanalysis of previously published data also reveals a greater number of oscillating genes than was previously reported . This suggests that circadian oscillation is a universal property of all mammalian genes , although phase and amplitude of oscillation are tissue-specific and remain associated with a gene's function . We hypothesize that the cell's metabolic respiratory cycle drives the oscillatory pattern of gene expression . These findings imply that biological pathways should be considered as dynamic systems of genes oscillating in coordination with each other .
Homologous chromosomes exchange genetic material during cell division at meiosis by the process of crossover recombination . Although such crossover events are visually identifiable by cytogenetic techniques , it has remained a challenge to pinpoint the location of crossovers at the DNA sequence level . An emerging novel possibility to approach this challenge is to exploit the high resolution offered by re-sequencing of multiple individuals in species in which a genome assembly is available . Specifically , by sequencing members of a family , the inheritance of chromosomal segments can be followed and the location of crossover as well as non-crossover recombination determined . We performed such an endeavour in the collared flycatcher , a songbird species that has been in focus for extensive ecological and evolutionary research . We found that crossover events were concentrated to certain ‘hot-spot’ regions , and that the density of such events was highest in and close to genes . A higher rate of crossover recombination was found in males than in females and in males , but not in females , the rate of crossover increased towards ends of chromosomes . The location of non-crossovers was significantly associated with that of crossovers . We could further document an unbalanced transmission of genetic variants at non-crossover events via to the process of GC-biased gene conversion .
Repeat-proteins are coded in repetitions of similar amino acid stretches . Unlike typical globular domains , repeat-protein domains fold into elongated superhelical shapes of stacked elements , stabilized only by interactions within each repeat or between adjacent repeats . This architecture allows folding to be treated as a quasi–one-dimensional problem . We introduce an analytical model that describes the folding energy landscape of repeat-proteins , based on a representation in terms of spin variables . This representation groups together conformations on the basis of the degree of order in local quasi-independent folding units , often called foldons . We derive simple relations between the experimentally observed stability and cooperativity of denaturation of the whole repeat-domain , which differ from those found in three-dimensionally connected globular proteins . Folding simulations on perfectly funneled landscapes reproduce these relations . We document that these relations are experimentally observed in a variety of repeat-protein systems . We show the parameters in the foldon spin description can be predicted on the basis , largely , of protein topology , reflecting the funneled energy landscape .
Liver cancer is the third most common cause of cancer death worldwide . It is most commonly caused by viral hepatitis , alcoholism , or obesity , all of which activate cellular stress responses in the liver . However , the contribution of these responses to disease pathogenesis was unknown . We found that expression of the stress-regulated transcription factor CHOP—widely thought to be anti-oncogenic because of its cell death-promoting properties—was associated with both human liver cancer and two mouse models thereof . In response to challenge with a tumor-causing agent , mice lacking CHOP developed fewer tumors , exhibited less cell death , compensatory cellular proliferation , and liver scarring ( fibrosis ) , and showed lower expression of immune and inflammatory genes . These findings establish CHOP as a biomarker for liver cancer and demonstrate its importance in promoting liver tumor formation . They raise the possibility that promotion of tumorigenesis by CHOP is a common feature of liver cancer caused by viral infection , alcoholism , and obesity .
Cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) refers to skin ulcers caused by the Leishmania parasite , which is transmitted by the bite of sandflies . In Ethiopia , CL is caused by the Leishmania aethiopica parasite . CL in Ethiopia can be associated with severe and complicated disease such as diffuse CL ( DCL ) , which presents with multiple skin lesions spread over the body . For such severe cases , topically applied treatment is not sufficient and systemic treatment ( given in tablets or via injections ) is required . Although the total number of patients that suffer from CL in Ethiopia is high , there are no evidence-based treatment guidelines . We conducted a systematic review of clinical studies reporting on treatment outcomes of CL due to L aethiopica . We identified a total of 24 records reporting on 506 treatment episodes of CL presumably due to L aethiopica . The most commonly used drugs were antimonials , pentamidine , and cryotherapy . Most studies were case reports or case series . There were two small clinical trials and two prospective non-randomized studies . However , all studies had some methodological limitations . With cryotherapy , cure rates were 60–80% , and 69–85% with antimonials . Pentamidine appeared effective against complicated CL , also in cases that did not improve on antimonials . Data on miltefosine , paromomycin and liposomal amphotericin B are extremely scarce . Only a few studies were available on DCL . The evidence-base for treatment of complicated CL due to L aethiopica is extremely limited . While antimonials remain the most available CL treatment in Ethiopia , more data on the efficacy and safety in CL are needed . High quality trials on CL due to L aethiopica are urgently needed , evaluating treatments beyond antimonials . Interesting options in the short term are drugs such as miltefosine , paromomycin and liposomal amphotericin B , as they are currently available in Ethiopia for treatment of visceral leishmaniasis .
Circadian biological clocks are present in a diverse range of organisms , from bacteria to humans . A central function of circadian clocks is controlling the adaptive response to the daily cycle of light and darkness . As such , altering the clock ( e . g . , by jet lag or shiftwork ) affects mental and physical health in humans . It has generally been thought that the underlying molecular mechanism of circadian oscillations is an autoregulatory transcriptional/translational feedback loop . However , in cyanobacteria , only three purified clock proteins can reconstitute a circadian rhythm of protein phosphorylation in a test tube ( in vitro ) . Using this in vitro system we found that the three proteins interact to form complexes of different compositions throughout the cycle . We derived a dynamic model for the in vitro oscillator that accurately reproduces the rhythms of complexes and of protein phosphorylation . One of the proteins undergoes phase-dependent exchange of its monomers , and the model demonstrates that this monomer exchange allows the maintenance of robust oscillations . Finally , we perturbed the in vitro oscillator with temperature pulses to demonstrate the resetting characteristics of this unique circadian oscillator . Our study analyzes a circadian clockwork to an unprecedented level of molecular detail .
The human brain is notoriously “noisy” . Even with identical physical sensory inputs and task demands , brain responses and behavioral output vary tremendously from trial to trial . Such brain and behavioral variability and the relationship between them have been the focus of intense neuroscience research for decades . Traditionally , it is thought that the relationship between trial-to-trial brain activity and behavioral performance is monotonic: the highest or lowest brain activity levels are associated with the best behavioral performance . Using invasive recordings in neurosurgical patients , we demonstrate an inverted-U relationship between brain and behavioral variability . Under such a relationship , moderate brain activity is associated with the best performance , while both very low and very high brain activity levels are predictive of compromised performance . These results have significant implications for our understanding of brain functioning . They further support recent theoretical frameworks that view the brain as an active nonlinear dynamical system instead of a passive signal-processing device .
Sexual development in fungi is governed by genes located within a single mating type ( MAT ) locus or at two unlinked MAT loci . While the latter is thought to be the ancestral state in basidiomycetes , physical linkage of the two MAT loci has occurred multiple times during basidiomycete evolution . Here , we show that physically linked MAT loci are present in all analyzed species of the basidiomycete order Trichosporonales . In contrast to previously studied basidiomycetes , the fused MAT loci in the Trichosporonales have a highly conserved gene order , suggesting that this fusion might date back to the common ancestor of this lineage .
Chagas disease is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America . Residual insecticide spraying has been used successfully for the elimination of domestic vectors in many regions . However , some vectors of non-domestic origin are able to invade houses , and they are now a key challenge for further disease control . We developed a mathematical model to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses , based on triatomine demographic parameters . The reliability of the predictions was demonstrated by comparing these with different sets of insect collection data from the Yucatan peninsula , Mexico . We then simulated vector control strategies based on insecticide spraying , insect , screens and bednets to evaluate their efficacy at reducing triatomine abundance in the houses . An optimum reduction in bug abundance by at least 80% could be obtained by insecticide application only when doses of at least 50 mg/m2 were applied every year within a two-month period matching the house invasion season by bugs . Alternatively , the use of insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance in the houses and offers a sustainable alternative . Such screens may be part of novel interventions for the integrated control of various vector-borne diseases .
Feathers are a defining feature of birds . In flighted birds , the feathers are arranged in a highly ordered pattern that arises during embryonic development . Feather rudiments are produced in rows , with these rows appearing one after another in a spreading wave . We show that the formation of highly regular feather patterns depends on this wave of formation , with the row-by-row progression triggered by a spreading wave of the signal Ectodysplasin A ( EDA ) . The EDA signal cooperates with a spreading wave of cellular density to spark the formation of regularly spaced cell aggregates , each of which serves as the precursor to a feather . The EDA wave and the cell density wave are themselves independent of feather formation , as they can be detected travelling across the embryonic skin even when feather formation is impaired . In the flightless birds examined these waves are missing and a highly ordered feather pattern is not produced . However , the manner of wave loss differs in different species , with ostrich embryos lacking the wave of EDA , whereas the emu lacks sufficient skin cells at the appropriate developmental stage to make precisely organised feather rudiments .
The 2013–15 Ebola outbreak has been much larger and lasted longer than any previous Ebola emergence , and is further unusual because of the thousands of survivors left behind . In 2014 the World Health Organization stated that lack of evidence made it impossible to give confident guidance about which body fluids of Ebola patients or survivors are infectious . This review summarises published evidence on presence of Ebola and the closely related Marburg virus ( filoviruses ) in body fluids of infected people and survivors though end July 2015 . Scientific and other reports were searched for tests to detect filovirus in human body fluids on otherwise confirmed cases . 33 reports had relevant test results . Blood products were confirmed as likely to be highly infectious among actively ill cases . In actively ill patients , filovirus was often found in non-blood body fluids . However , ( apart from in semen ) , it is rare for viable virus to be found in survivors . It is not apparent how relatively infectious most body fluids are , due to inconsistencies in testing techniques and lack of data about how much virus is present at different points of illness and recovery .
Spike adaptation is a property of most neurons . When spike time adaptation occurs over multiple time scales , the dynamics can be described by a power-law . We study the computational properties of a leaky integrate-and-fire model with power-law adaptation . Instead of explicitly modeling the adaptation process by the contribution of slowly changing conductances , we use a fractional temporal derivative framework . The exponent of the fractional derivative represents the degree of adaptation of the membrane voltage , where 1 is the normal leaky integrator while values less than 1 produce increasing correlations in the voltage trace . The temporal correlation is interpreted as a memory trace that depends on the value of the fractional derivative . We identify the memory trace in the fractional model as the sum of the instantaneous differentiation weighted by a function that depends on the fractional exponent , and it provides non-local information to the incoming stimulus . The spiking dynamics of the fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model show memory dependence that can result in downward or upward spike adaptation . Our model provides a framework for understanding how long-range membrane voltage correlations affect spiking dynamics and information integration in neurons .
Paracoccidioidomycosis is a health-threatening human systemic mycosis , endemic to some Latin America countries . The disease is caused by species belonging to the Paracoccidioides genus . Once inside the human host , Paracoccidioides must face the host innate immune system , escaping from the cytotoxic capacity of innate immune cells ( ROS production and liberation of polypeptide antibiotics ) . To do so , they express and synthetize superoxide dismutases ( SODs ) . We aimed to identify and characterize the SOD isoforms present in the Paracoccidioides genome . We identified six isoforms , among which we found an increased expression of PbSOD1 and PbSOD3 during the transition-to-yeast process , exposure to oxidative agents and interaction with phagocytic cells . Additionally , we found that PbSOD3 expression might be linked with a pronounced extracellular activity while PbSOD1 and the other isoforms seem more related to intracellular requirements of the fungus . We propose that the defence against endogenous-produced ROS may depend on intracellular Sods ( mostly SOD1 , but possibly also SOD2 , SOD4 and SOD5 ) , but defence against extracellular ROS ( produced during host-pathogen interactions ) might rely to a greater extent on SOD3 , which is endowed with an extracellular activity .
Intrinsically disordered/unstructured proteins ( IDPs ) defy the classical structure–function paradigm because they exist and function without a well-defined 3-D structure . These proteins are extremely sensitive to degradation in the test tube , but show no enhanced degradation rates in the cell . To resolve this apparent contradiction , we tested whether IDPs are protected by interaction with accessory proteins , chaperones , often implicated in guarding other proteins in the cell . Our major finding is that disorder predicted by the IUPred algorithm actually shows negative correlation with chaperone binding in various species . To explain this finding , we argue that IDPs are protected in the cell from proteases by their special amino acid composition , and also by the tight regulation of intracellular proteases . Thus , the primary reason for their chaperone binding is not protection from degradation , but promotion of assembly with partners .
How signalling pathways regulate the formation of organs with a precise size and pattern of differentiation is a fundamental question in developmental genetics . One classical example of the link between signalling and organ development is the regulation of wing disc development by the Decapentaplegic/BMP ( Dpp ) signalling pathway in Drosophila . A key outcome of this pathway is the transcriptional activation of the spalt major ( salm ) and spalt related ( salr ) genes , both encoding transcription factors . In this manner , the identification of Salm/Salr target genes is a critical step towards the understanding of the mode of action of these proteins and the genetic logic underlying the regulation of wing development by the Dpp signalling pathway . In order to identify these target genes , we used expression microarrays , in situ hybridization and phenotypic analysis . We identified an unexpected complexity in the transcriptional landscape of the wing disc that includes genes positively and negatively regulated by Salm/Salr . These findings have major implications for the reconstruction of the genetic hierarchy initiated by the Dpp pathway and leading to the formation of a wing with a correct size and pattern , because some of the genes we identified could explain particular aspects of the sal mutant phenotype .
The centrosomes are responsible for organizing the mitotic spindle a microtubule-based structure that centers , then segregates , the chromosomes during cell division . When a cell divides it normally possesses two centrosomes , allowing it to build a bipolar spindle and accurately segregate the chromosomes to two daughter cells . Appropriate control of centrosome number is therefore crucial to maintaining genome stability . Centrosome number is largely controlled by their regulated duplication . In particular , the protein Plk4 , which is essential for duplication , must be strictly limited as an overabundance leads to excess centrosome duplication . We have identified protein phosphatase 1 as a critical regulator of the C . elegans Plk4 homolog ( known as ZYG-1 ) . When protein phosphatase 1 is down-regulated , ZYG-1 levels increase leading to centrosome amplification . Thus our work identifies a novel mechanism that limits centrosome duplication .
Leishmaniasis are neglected tropical diseases that represent a major public health problem in the world . New outbreaks have been recorded in the outskirts of some cities and phlebotomine vectors show geographic expansion , potentially associated with environmental and climate changes . We investigated a recent focus of visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in dogs from two residential condominiums located in an environmentally protected area in the municipality of Campinas , São Paulo , southeastern Brazil . The purpose of the study was to investigate Leishmania ( L . ) infantum infection , the etiological agent of the disease , in vector insects ( phlebotominae ) , domestic ( dog ) and wild hosts . Antibody prevalence was determined in 1 . 5% and 1 . 2% of dogs examined in 2013 and 2015 , respectively . In addition , natural infection by the VL agent was confirmed in two species of sand flies and two white-eared opossums . All positive animals were captured near human residences and in forest areas . Scenarios like these , with changes in ecosystems and the proximity of wild and domestic animals and humans , can promote the occurrence of zoonoses . The participation of wildlife in the transmission cycle of zoonoses has assumed greater importance in recent years as a result of the consolidation of the One Health concept .
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are a family of small RNA molecules that negatively regulate the expression of protein-coding genes and orchestrate diverse cellular processes . This regulatory mechanism is also exploited by viruses to manage their life cycle and to evade the host immune system . Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is closely associated with nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , which is a highly metastatic type of tumor . A previous by our group study discovered that the EBV miRNA miR-BART9 is expressed at high levels in all EBV-positive NPC tissues . In the present study , we used gain- and loss-of-function approaches to investigate the function of miR-BART9 in EBV-negative and EBV-positive NPC cells . We showed that miR-BART9 promotes the migration and invasiveness of cultured NPC cells and enhances the metastatic ability of NPC tumors in vivo . Through computational analysis , we discovered that E-cadherin , a membrane protein that is critical for maintaining cell-cell contact and suppressing tumor metastasis , is a potential target for miR-BART9 . Through biochemical assays and a functional rescue analysis , we confirmed that miR-BART9 specifically inhibits E-cadherin to enhance the motility of NPC cells . Our results show that miR-BART9 is a prometastatic viral miRNA and suggest that miR-BART9 may contribute to the aggressiveness of EBV-positive NPC tumors .
Efficient visualization of splicing events from RNA sequencing data is key for the computational analysis of alternative splicing . This process , that results in a single gene giving rise to multiple transcripts , is usually illustrated through sashimi plots: a representation of the read coverage and the support of each splicing junction in the region of interest . However , available tools for this purpose present several limitations that significantly hinder their applicability . Among them , dependence on event annotation , visualization difficulties with moderate sample sizes and long introns , use of non-standard file formats or inefficient implementations . With ggsashimi , we comprehensively overcome these flaws and provide the user with a fast , stand-alone application that generates publication-ready sashimi plots . Furthermore , ggsashimi supports the display of aggregated experiments , a crucial feature in order to explore alternative splicing in the era of large RNA sequencing projects .
Comparison of noncoding DNA sequences across species has the potential to significantly improve our understanding of gene regulation and our ability to annotate regulatory regions of the genome . This potential is evident from recent publications analyzing 12 Drosophila genomes for regulatory annotation . However , because noncoding sequences are much less structured than coding sequences , their interspecies comparison presents technical challenges , such as ambiguity about how to align them and how to predict transcription factor binding sites , which are the fundamental units that make up regulatory sequences . This article describes how to build an integrated probabilistic framework that performs alignment and binding site prediction simultaneously , in the process improving the accuracy of both tasks . It defines a stochastic model for the evolution of entire “cis-regulatory modules , ” with its highlight being a novel theoretical treatment of the commonly observed loss and gain of binding sites during evolution . This new evolutionary model forms the backbone of newly developed software for the prediction of new cis-regulatory modules , alignment of known modules to elucidate general principles of cis-regulatory evolution , or both . The new software is demonstrated to provide benefits in performance of these two crucial genomics tasks .
Transposons and other selfish genetic elements make up a significant fraction of all eukaryotic genomes , and the piRNA pathway appears to have a conserved function in transposon silencing and genome maintenance . However , other functions for this pathway have not been fully explored . Telomeres must be protected from recognition as DNA breaks by the repair machinery , which can covalently ligate unprotected chromosome ends and thus disrupt meiotic and mitotic chromosome segregation . We show that mutations in a subset of piRNA pathway genes disrupt meiotic and mitotic chromosome separation and that these segregation defects are suppressed by a mutation that blocks ligation of non-homologous DNA ends . These mutations also disrupt assembly of the telomere protection complex and reduce expression of a subpopulation of 19- to 22-nt telomere-specific RNA . We therefore propose that a subpopulation of short piRNAs direct assembly of the telomere protection complex .
In this report we describe a newly discovered ebolavirus species which caused a large hemorrhagic fever outbreak in western Uganda . The virus is genetically distinct , differing by more than 30% at the genome level from all other known ebolavirus species . The unique nature of this virus created challenges for traditional filovirus molecular based diagnostic assays and genome sequencing approaches . Instead , we quickly determined over 70% of the virus genome using a recently developed random-primed pyrosequencing approach that allowed the rapid development of a molecular detection assay that was deployed in the disease outbreak response . This draft sequence allowed easy completion of the whole genome sequence using a traditional primer walking approach and prompt confirmation that this virus represented a new ebolavirus species . Current efforts to design effective diagnostics , antivirals and vaccines will need to take into account the distinct nature of this important new member of the filovirus family .
In recent decades , our understanding of Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) has increased; however , some basic questions still remain unresolved . One of them is: how homogeneous is AD ? Is the course of progression more or less the same for most patients , or are there large variations ? Our paper studies a large cohort of AD patients which comes from a 23-year-long study , and performs a statistical analysis of progression speed . We quantify the amount of spread in GDS/FAST stage durations ( a staging system widely used by clinicians ) . We arrive at an astonishing conclusion that the mean length of AD stages is comparable with their standard deviation ! This means that individual courses of AD progression may differ very much from each other , and from the textbook mean values . This has implications both for clinical trials ( how do we assess if a new drug is effective , if the amount of natural spread is so large in untreated patients ? ) , and for our understanding of this disease , which appears to be comprised of sub-diseases with different patterns of decline .
Contrary to the long-standing belief that no new neurons are added to the adult brain , it is now known that new neurons are born in a number of different brain regions and animals . One such region is the hippocampus , an area that plays an important role in learning and memory . In this paper we explore the effect of adding new neurons in a computational model of rat hippocampal function . Our hypothesis is that adding new neurons helps in forming new memories without disrupting memories that have already been stored . We find that adding new units is indeed superior to either changing connectivity or allowing neuronal turnover ( where old units die and are replaced ) . We then show that a more biologically plausible mechanism that combines all three of these processes produces the best performance . Our work provides a strong theoretical argument as to why new neurons are born in the adult hippocampus: the new units allow the network to adapt in a way that is not possible by rearranging existing connectivity using conventional plasticity or neuronal turnover .
In many cell types , mitochondria are the main source of intracellular reactive oxygen species but iron-induced oxidative lysosomal damage has been described as well . African trypanosomes are the causative agents of human sleeping sickness and the cattle disease Nagana . The parasites are obligate extracellular pathogens that multiply in the bloodstream and body fluids of their mammalian hosts and as procyclic forms in their insect vector , the tsetse fly . Bloodstream Trypanosoma brucei in which the genes for cytosolic lipid hydroperoxide-detoxifying peroxidases have been knocked out undergo an extremely rapid membrane peroxidation and lyse within less than two hours when they are cultured without an exogenous antioxidant . Here we show that the primary site of intracellular damage is the single terminal lysosome of the parasites . Disintegration of the lysosome clearly precedes damage of the mitochondrion and parasite death . Iron , acquired by the endocytosis of iron-loaded host transferrin , induces cell lysis . Contrary to the cytosolic enzymes , the respective mitochondrial peroxidase is dispensable for both in vitro proliferation and mouse infectivity . This is the first report demonstrating that cytosolic thiol peroxidases are responsible for protecting the lysosome of a cell .
Pigmentation has since long constituted a prime model to study how genes act and interact . The PMEL gene encodes a protein exclusively found in the melanosomes of pigment-producing cells . Mutations in PMEL underlie some spectacular color phenotypes in animals including Dominant white color in chickens , Silver in horses , and Merle in dogs , but no spontaneous mutation causing a complete inactivation of this gene has yet been found in mammals . We have now developed a PMEL knockout mouse to further study the function of this protein . We show that mice lacking PMEL have almost normal visible pigmentation . However , loss of PMEL has a dramatic effect on the morphology of the melanosomes in skin , hair , and eye , such that the normally rod-shaped melanosomes in wild-type animals are spherical in the knockout mice . The knockout animals also have a substantial reduction in the content of black pigment in hair . The study establishes that PMEL has a critical role for maintaining normal pigment production .
Dengue is an emerging mosquito-borne viral disease , which is transmitted through the bite of Aedes sp . mosquitoes . The dengue virus causes 390 million infections and 96 million cases every year , and represents a major public health problem in the tropics and subtropics . Although a dengue vaccine was licensed in late 2015 , it does not represent a general solution due to significant imperfections . Vector control remains still the primary method to prevent dengue infections . Environmental interventions to control dengue vectors represent sustainable and safe methods as there are limited risks of environmental contamination and toxicity . We provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of the following environmental methods for dengue vector control: container covers with and without insecticides , waste management with and without direct garbage collection , elimination of breeding places . Both , systematic review and meta-analysis , showed a weak effect of the interventions on larval Aedes sp . populations , with no obvious differences between the results of each individual method . However , there is a need for more comparable high-quality studies at an adequate standard to strengthen this evidence .
A fundamentally new approach to treat human diseases caused by “undruggable” proteins would be to use small molecules to selectively inhibit their synthesis by the ribosome . Here we compare two related compounds ( PF846 , PF8503 ) that selectively stall human translation to the effects of a more general translation inhibitor , homoharringtonin . We used genome-wide approaches to probe the effects of these compounds , including measurements of which messenger RNAs are being translated and the effects of knocking down gene expression on cell growth . These experiments revealed new and surprising genetic connections between ribosome quality control pathways . We then used biochemical and cell-based experiments to test the involvement of particular ribosome quality control proteins such as ASCC2 , ASCC3 and HBS1L in the physiological response of cells to translation inhibitors . The genetic and biochemical insights presented here should aid the development of next-generation selective translation inhibitors to treat disease .
During viral infection , many essential cellular functions are targets for viral manipulation , yet aside from RNA interference , surprisingly few examples of viruses disrupting RNA turnover have been documented . Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is an oncogenic virus that induces widespread cellular messenger RNA destabilization during lytic infection . The viral protein SOX is a critical effector of this phenotype , yet it lacks ribonuclease activity , so presumably it targets cellular factors governing RNA stability . Here , we show that SOX stimulates host mRNA destruction via a unique mechanism involving polyadenylation . During SOX expression , newly formed messages have longer than normal poly ( A ) tails , leading to their retention in the nucleus . Coincident with this hyperadenylation , poly ( A ) binding protein ( PABPC ) is relocalized from the cytoplasm to the nucleus . PABPC has prominent roles in translation , messenger RNA stabilization , and quality control in the cytoplasm; we find its nuclear relocalization by SOX correlates with enhanced mRNA turnover in the cytoplasm . Thus , KSHV appears to have evolved distinct polyadenylation-linked mechanisms to target both new messages in the nucleus and preexisting cytoplasmic messages for destruction , thereby effectively inhibiting cellular gene expression .
The role of interferons ( types I , II , and III ) in viral and bacterial infections has been a topic of intense research over the last decade . The contribution of the type I interferons during bacterial pneumonias particularly has been shown to be highly variable depending on the specific pathogen . Our data for the first time demonstrate that type III interferon plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of bacterial pneumonia , and its contribution is similar in both Gram positive and Gram negative infections . We show in epithelial cells that miR-21 and PDCD4 are downstream effectors of type III interferon that prolong production of inflammatory cytokines . Utilizing mice that lack the receptor for type III interferon or PDCD4 , we show that inhibiting this pathway improves bacterial clearance from the airways and lung tissue . These data suggest novel targets for therapy in a variety of bacterial pneumonias .
This study reports on the importance of recording data related to the clinical presentation on admission in sleeping sickness . We collected data on 781 second-stage patients admitted in the Trypanosomiasis Unit of the Department of Neurology of the University of Kinshasa from 1989 to 2012 . The following information were registered: age , sex , symptomatology duration , trypanosome parasites location in body fluids , clinical presentation on admission , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) cell count , CSF protein concentration , therapeutic regimen , and post-treatment outcome in terms of death or survival . Analyses demonstrated that the most influential factor on the occurrence of death was a dysfunctional clinical status on admission ( reflecting advanced disease ) . These results support the idea that the algorithm used to categorize patients in the present work can be proposed for validation in prospective studies with the purpose of designing a standardized clinical procedure assessing disease severity and bearing predictive value of outcome .
Social isolation severely affects the behavior and physiology of social animals , including humans . The fruit fly is a powerful model for studying the mechanisms of development , health and disease and is also used to study social behaviors such as mating and aggression . However , these studies are limited to examining few individuals for shorts amounts of time , due to the lack of effective computational tools for the analysis of large groups over prolonged time . To overcome this hurdle , we built a new behavioral arena and developed new software that accurately tracks many flies simultaneously over long time periods . The arena is cheap and easy to build and the software works with low resolution videos . Using these improved tools , we studied social isolation in groups of male flies . We found that isolation caused flies to form stronger interactions with neighboring flies in their social network . These behavioral changes were preceded by transient changes in the expression of metabolism genes and eventually resulted in isolated flies accumulating fat , as has been previously observed in studies in mice and humans . Our study opens the door for the use of fruit flies in future studies of social isolation .
Diarrheal disease is responsible for one in ten deaths among children less than five years of age globally . Innovative interventions to address gaps in the clinical care of these patients are lacking , yet will likely reduce the morbidity and mortality from diarrheal diseases . Therefore , the objective of this pilot study was to take a technology-enabled approach to improve guideline adherence , including antibiotic selection for diarrheal disease management in a resource-limited setting . To do this we adapted WHO guidelines to a smartphone platform and evaluated the approach in Bangladesh at two rural hospitals . The platform was durable and demonstrated positive improvement in guideline adherence . The results suggest that the decision-support tool was associated with a decrease in intravenous fluid use while maintaining safety , an increase in use of the recommended antibiotic , and a decrease in use of medications not recommended . This study represents a critical first step towards technology-enabled decision-support tools for diarrheal disease in resource-limited settings .
Host–parasite interactions are impacted by temperature , and climate change is altering the nature of these interactions . Measuring how a range of temperatures affects host and parasite traits and how this influences the outcome of infections is infeasible in most systems . The metabolic theory of ecology provides a powerful framework to predict biological rates in response to temperature . Using a Daphnia–parasite model system , we collected experimental data on host survival and parasite abundance across the host’s temperature range . We fitted thermal relationships based on the metabolic theory of ecology to separate host and parasite traits , including host mortality and aging as well as parasite growth and virulence . We then provide empirical evidence of the predictive power of linking these relationships in mechanistic within-host parasite models . This allows us to predict the outcome of individual infections continuously across a temperature gradient , as well as to gain a better understanding of the impact of temperature changes on disease dynamics . Due to its simplicity and generality , this framework could be a valuable approach for predicting the effects of climate change on infection outcomes for hosts and microparasites .
Neurons in the brain can be classified as excitatory or inhibitory based on whether they activate or deactivate the cells to whom they send signals . Compared to their excitatory counterpart , inhibitory neurons present themselves as a wild diversity of cell classes . It is broadly believed that these classes serve different purposes , but as of now , those are poorly understood . In this article , we suggest how an intricate interplay of three inhibitory cell classes can control whether internal signals—such as predictions , memory signals or motor commands—are taken into account when sensory signals are interpreted . Using a mathematical model and computer simulations , we show that such internal signals can be shut down by regulating which inhibitory cell types are active , and that the interaction of different cell classes allows weak control signals to do so .
Microbiomes are important for better health , sustainable agriculture , and climate management . Since experimental studies of natural microbial communities are often challenging , microbiome wide association studies ( MWAS ) have been the primary method to reveal the connection between specific microbes and host phenotype . MWAS have established that many diseases are associated with a complex dysbiosis driven by a large number of microbes . We show that many of these associations may not reflect a mechanistic link with the disease , but arise instead due to interspecific interactions such as cross-feeding and competition for resources . We also propose a method grounded in the maximum entropy models of statistical physics to separate direct from indirect associations . Using both synthetic and real microbiome data , we show that this method detects only direct associations , identifies most predictive features of microbiomes , and avoids p-value inflation . We demonstrate the power of this method on one of the largest microbiome data sets on inflammatory bowel disease .
Wolbachia is a naturally occurring endosymbiotic bacterium that , when introduced into a naïve mosquito host , has been shown to effectively reduce the replication and transmission of pathogens such as dengue virus , West Nile virus , Chikungunya virus , yellow fever virus and Plasmodium . However , a recent study has indicated that , under certain conditions , transiently infected Wolbachia can enhance West Nile virus infection in Culex tarsalis mosquitoes . We wanted to investigate whether this enhancement effect could also be observed in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes and if so , whether it is specific to the nature of the Wolbachia infection model under study ( transient vs stable ) . We compared the replication and transmission of dengue virus and WNV ( Kunjin strain ) in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes transiently infected with Wolbachia and mosquitoes stably infected with the identical Wolbachia strain . Contrary to the previous study , our results show no enhancement of replication or transmission for either dengue virus or WNV ( Kunjin strain ) in mosquitoes transiently or stably infected with Wolbachia .
Cilia are sensory organelles that are found on most types of human cells and play essential roles in diverse processes ranging from vision and olfaction to embryonic symmetry breaking and kidney development . Individual cilia are divided into multiple functionally and compositionally distinct compartments , including a proximal “Inversin” compartment , which is located near the base of cilia . We used the nematode C . elegans , a well-defined animal model of cilia biology , to characterize the genetics , components , and defining properties of the proximal cilium . The Inversin compartment is conserved in C . elegans , and is established independent of another proximal ciliary region , the microtubule doublet-based region . We showed how components of both the doublet region and the Inversin compartment genetically interact to regulate many pathways linked to core aspects of cilia biology , including ciliogenesis , cilia placement , cilia ultrastructure , microtubule stability , and the protein composition of ciliary compartments . In addition to expanding and clarifying our knowledge of basic cilia biology , these results also have direct implications for human health research because several of the genes and pathways explored in our work are linked to ciliopathies , a group of diseases caused by dysfunctional cilia .
The formation of myelin , a fatty , multilayered structure that surrounds certain neuronal axons in the nervous system , is essential for the proper communication of electrical signals by neurons , acting both as an insulator and to promote metabolic support to the axon . Loss of myelin can have severe functional consequences and trigger serious diseases , such as multiple sclerosis . Bidirectional communication between the oligodendrocytes , the myelinating cells of the central nervous system , and the axon is essential for the proper formation and function of myelin membranes; however , the signals that control myelination by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system are poorly understood . In this paper , we use a combination of cell culture and animal studies to demonstrate that the protein Scribble , which is known to be a highly evolutionarily conserved regulator of cell polarity , plays a role in controlling whether oligodendrocytes myelinate axons . We show that Scribble regulates the length and thickness of myelin sheaths formed , as well as the tight adhesion of oligodendroglial membranes to the axonal surface , which is required for the organization of the axon into specialized domains at the nodes of Ranvier ( gaps formed between the myelin sheaths generated by different cells ) . In addition , we show that Scribble plays a key role in the repair of myelin sheaths in a mouse model of demyelinating disease . The discovery of novel regulators of myelination in the central nervous system may allow for the identification of novel therapeutic targets for the promotion of myelin repair in patients suffering from demyelinating diseases .
Listeria monocytogenes is known to produce only one haemolytic factor that plays an important role in its pathogenic cycle—that is , the cholesterol-dependent Listeriolysin O . However , here we identify a second haemolysin , which is present in a subset of strains of lineage I , the evolutionary lineage of L . monocytogenes that contributes to the majority of spontaneous and epidemic outbreaks of listeriosis . This second haemolysin is only induced under oxidative stress conditions and contributes to murine virulence and in survival in polymorphonuclear neutrophils . Bioinformatic analysis suggests that the haemolysin Listeriolysin S ( LLS ) is post-translationally modified and belongs to a family of modified virulence peptides , including the potent virulence factor Streptolysin S ( SLS ) , a peptide cytolysin produced by Streptococcus pyogenes , and several as-yet uncharacterised members of the same family in other pathogens . Therefore , en route to establishing that some L . monocytogenes produce more than one haemolysin , we have uncovered a virulence factor that is exclusively associated with a subset of the lineage I evolutionary line and that is also the first non-streptococcal representative of a potentially extended family of SLS-like peptides .
Mycetoma is a progressive and destructive , chronic granulomatous tumourous inflammatory disease , which is caused by a wide range of bacterial and fungal organisms . These causative agents form grains inside the tissue and a large inflammation zone and collagen capsule is found to be surrounding them . How these grains and the surrounding tissue reaction are formed is currently not known . In this study we demonstrated that IL-17A and MMP-9 were expressed in the mycetoma granuloma but at different zones surrounding the grain . The MMP-9 levels were directly proportional to the IL-17A levels . The highest IL-17A expression was found in the largest lesions and the lesions with the longest duration . These lesions are often also associated with a continuous influx of neutrophils and tissue damage and remodeling due to the production of ROS and metalloproteases and this could explain the correlation found between IL-17A and MMP-9 in mycetoma lesions .
Understanding how proteins recognize each other is central to deciphering the inner workings of living things and for biomedical research . It has long been known that the sequence of a protein , which is a string of different amino acids , can dictate how a protein molecule folds into a well-defined shape required for biological tasks . Many folded proteins recognize and bind with each other by a tight geometric fit similar to that between a lock and its key . Recently , however , it has become clear that some proteins function as a flexible string , in constant motion , without forming a stable shape . Understanding how such “disordered” proteins work is challenging . To gain insight , we studied a disordered protein region that causes a large family of human cancers . Employing an innovative combination of experimental and theoretical techniques , we describe a new mode of protein interaction based on multiple simple contacts between one type of amino acid ( aromatic ) in the disordered protein and another type ( positively charged ) on the partner protein . Because this mechanism also underlies the ability of the disordered protein to cause cancer , further investigation of this unprecedented mode of protein-protein interaction may open up new avenues for cancer therapy .
Lyme disease , caused by the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi , is the most prevalent arthropod-borne disease in North America . In nature , the bacterium oscillates between its tick vector host ( Ixodes spp . ) and small rodents ( Peromyscus spp . ) . B . burgdorferi is able to persist in these two very different host environments by modulating the expression of surface lipoproteins proteins , or other proteins , in response to host factors or environmental cues such as temperature and pH . Our interest in this process led to the identification of a homolog of the E . coli ATP-dependent lon protease ( lon-1 ) in B . burgdorferi that was upregulated in response to blood . The prototypical Lon of E . coli is a conserved protease important for the destruction of abnormal and short-lived proteins . B . burgdorferi is unusual in that it also codes for a second lon homolog , lon-2 , that was not upregulated in response to blood . In this study , we sought to clarify the roles for Lon-1 and Lon-2 in B . burgdorferi . We present evidence that Lon-1 is an ATP- and Mg2+-dependent protease but does not function in a manner consistent with a prototypical Lon . Lon-2 , however , functionally complemented Lon in E . coli . Thus , Lon-1 and Lon-2 appear to have distinct roles in B . burgdorferi; Lon-1 by virtue of its blood induction may be important in host adaptation , while Lon-2 is the functional homolog of E . coli Lon .
Antibody-dependent phagocytosis ( ADP ) of virus particles is thought to play a role in clearing some viral infections . However , it is unclear what role , if any , ADP plays in preventing or controlling HIV-1 infection . We sought to directly determine if antibodies could mediate the internalization of HIV-1 into phagocytes . We found that despite the ability of tested antibodies to bind to and at times neutralize the infectivity of HIV-1 , they were very inefficient at internalizing the virus into monocytes and other phagocytic cells . We further demonstrated that poor ADP activity was due to the limited number of envelope spikes found on the surface of HIV-1 . Related to the low number of spikes , antibodies were inefficient at aggregating the virus , a phenomenon that was key for effective phagocytosis . On the other hand , antibodies were capable of either shearing the membrane of or internalizing cells that were coated with HIV-1 . Our results cast doubt on a key role for ADP in preventing HIV-1 infection and suggest that other antibody functions are more important .
Our work quantifies the economic and health burden associated with hookworm infection by country , WHO region , and worldwide . We also evaluated the burden by age , various costing methodologies , and ran an extensive sensitivity analysis on key and debated parameters to determine the robustness of our model’s resulting estimates . We report the DALYs associated with hookworm infections with consequent health outcomes in 2016 and show the impact that varying disability weights and likelihoods of anemia have on the estimates . Additionally , our study identified potential targets for future studies and data collection . Our results provide important information for decision makers . Without a better understanding of the economic and health burden of hookworm worldwide and in different countries , it is difficult for decision makers such as funders , policy makers , disease control officials , and intervention manufacturers to determine how much time , energy , and resources to invest in hookworm control . Our results can also help decision makers know where hookworm should fall on their priority lists and allocate limited resources .
How hypoxia damages the developing human brain is poorly understood , despite being a major cause of life-long neurologic and psychiatric problems . Premature infants are especially at risk for these problems , with increased rates of attention-deficit disorder , autism , cerebral palsy , epilepsy , psychiatric disorders , and cognitive impairment . It is unknown whether hypoxia can cause errors in the connections of neurons in the vertebrate nervous system . We used zebrafish , a vertebrate model animal , to answer this question . We found that hypoxic injury causes errors in how neurons connect . We went on to determine that a specific genetic pathway , the hif1 pathway , is activated by hypoxia and turns on downstream genes , which cause the connection problems . One of the genes activated by hif1 , ephrinB2a , is responsible for many of the connection problems . Importantly , magnesium , used as a treatment for some preterm births , is able to help protect against the neuron connection errors . Our results show that hypoxia in vertebrates does cause errors in neuron connections and that magnesium can help prevent this .
Paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) is a fungal infection caused by the dimorphic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis . It occurs preferentially in rural workers in whom the disease is severe and may cause incapacitating pulmonary sequelae . Assessment of disease progression and treatment outcome normally includes chest x-rays or CT studies . Existing experimental PCM models have focused on several aspects , but none has done a radiologic or image follow-up evaluation of pulmonary lesions considered as the fungus primary target . In this study , the lungs of mice infected with fungal conidia were studied sequentially during the chronic stage of their experimental mycosis by noninvasive high resolution medical computed tomography , and at time of sacrifice , also by histopathology to characterize pulmonary abnormalities . Three basic lung lesion patterns were revealed by both techniques: nodular-diffuse , confluent and pseudo-tumoral which were located mainly around the hilus thus accurately reflecting the situation in human patients . The experimental design of this study decreases the need to sacrifice a large number of animals , and serves to monitor treatment efficacy by means of a more rational approach to the study of human pulmonary diseases . The findings we are reporting open new avenues for experimental research , increase our understanding of the mycosis pathogenesis and consequently have repercussions in patients' care .
Visceral leishmaniasis is caused by a parasite of the Leishmania species , but infection does not always lead to overt clinical disease . To detect infection , the Montenegro test or Leishmanin Skin Test ( LST ) is used along with serological markers . The LST is a test of the delayed-type hypersensitivity response read 48–72 hours after intradermal injection of leishmanin antigen . LST has many drawbacks , as complex administration and reading , boosting of anamnestic immune responses and difficult sourcing of GMP-compliant product and alternative tools for epidemiological research are badly needed . We evaluated whether a Interferon-γ Release Assay based on the QuantiFERON-TB test format , which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) as a test for detecting latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection , could become an in vitro diagnostic aid for the measurement of cell-mediated immune reactivity against L . donovani . We obtained good results with one of five of the antigens we evaluated and confirm the potential of this assay .
A complex cascade of events is triggered by the mammalian host upon a bacterial infection to prevent pathogen-induced damage . Many pathogens are successfully eliminated by the host immune system . However , some bacterial pathogens , including enteric yersiniae , evolved strategies to efficiently evade immune surveillance . This enables the pathogen to colonize specific sites in the host in which they can persist for years . These persistent infections are often asymptomatic for long time periods , but can undergo reactivation and cause clinical symptoms . In order to understand how enteric bacteria can persist in gut-associated host niches , we investigated changes of bacterial and host responses from an acute to a persistent infection . We found that persistency of Y . pseudotuberculosis in the cecum is characterized by suppression of pathogen-induced inflammation and tissue destruction , and an induction of interferon-γ promoted tolerogenic responses . We further show that the removal of a single bacterial virulence factor , the CNFY toxin , can trigger this process and drives the bacteria into persistency .
Coevolution of plants and microbial pathogens leads to interactions that resemble a molecular war . Pathogens generate effector molecules to infect their hosts , and plants produce defense molecules against pathogen attacks . Interactions between these molecules results in plant immunity or disease . Plant disease could be likened to a complex and delicate matter of balance , where a number of molecules are involved in the battlefield . Discovering and understanding the tipping points in the battle are vital for developing disease-free crops . In the interaction of rice and rice blast fungus , a microbe sensor on rice stimulates the generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) at the site of infection . ROS is known as an antimicrobial material and a stimulator for defense signaling that is important for preparing reinforcement in neighboring tissues . This paper presents the counter-defense mechanism of the fungus against plant-driven ROS . We found that a pathogenicity factor from rice blast fungus , DES1 ( Defense Suppressor 1 ) , is involved in overcoming oxidative stress for the counter-defense mechanism , suggesting that this gene is required for fungal pathogenicity .
The challenge of accurately mapping schistosomiasis is a daunting one – particularly because of the highly focal distribution of the disease . Ideally , of course , each specific treatment area would be assessed for infection prevalence and then treated appropriately based on guidelines of the World Health Organization . In practice , however , this is not possible , and a variety of short-cutting techniques have been developed to meet these mapping needs , including geospatial predictive mapping . This paper assesses the accuracy of model-based geostatistics ( MBG ) predictions for determining treatments projections in Ghana by comparing previously published data using MBG predictions with empirically derived prevalence values for schistosomiasis from school surveys completed at 79 sites . We found that using predictive mapping alone would not have provided reliable information for mass drug administration ( MDA ) planning – resulting in overtreatment in some areas and most importantly under-treatment in areas that needed it most . Based on our findings , predictive risk mapping cannot be a one-time exercise but must instead be a process that incorporates empiric testing and model refining to create optimised spatial decision support tools that meet the needs of disease control operational managers .
A fundamental question in cell and developmental biology is how motile cells find their target destinations . One of the most important cell targeting mechanisms involves the sperm and oocyte , which unite during fertilization to produce the next generation of offspring . We have been using the nematode C . elegans to delineate these mechanisms . Our prior studies have shown that oocytes secrete F-series prostaglandins that stimulate sperm motility . Prostaglandins are widespread signaling molecules derived from polyunsaturated fatty acids or PUFAs . Mammals are not capable of synthesizing PUFAs and must receive them in the diet . C . elegans was not thought to synthesize prostaglandins because the genome lacks cyclooxygenases , enzymes that catalyze the rate-limiting step in mammalian prostaglandin synthesis . Here we show that C . elegans oocytes synthesize a heterogenous mixture of structurally related F-series prostaglandins derived from different PUFA classes , including the enantiomer of PGF2α . These prostaglandins function collectively and redundantly to guide sperm to the fertilization site . Our results indicate that F-series prostaglandins can be synthesized independent of cyclooxygenase enzymes . This novel pathway may be evolutionarily conserved . Evidence is emerging that prostaglandins regulate sperm motility in the female reproductive tract of humans .
Protein therapeutics have created a revolution in disease therapy , providing improved outcomes for prevalent illnesses and conditions while at the same time yielding treatments for diseases that were previously intractable . However , this powerful class of drugs is subject to their own unique challenges and risk factors . In particular , the biological origins of therapeutic proteins predispose them towards eliciting a detrimental immune response from the patient's own body . Therefore , fully capitalizing on the medicinal reservoir of natural and engineered proteins will require efficient , effective , and broadly applicable deimmunization technologies . We have developed deimmunization algorithms that simultaneously optimize therapeutic candidates for both low immunogenicity and high-level activity and stability . Here , we combine computational modeling and experimental analysis to show that the process of protein deimmunization manifests inherent tradeoffs between immunogenic potential and biomolecular function . Our experimental results demonstrate that dual objective optimization allows us to assess and design for these tradeoffs , thereby enabling facile construction of deimmunized variants that span a broad range of immunogenicity and functionality performance parameters . Thus , we can rapidly map the design space for deimmunized drug candidates , and we can use this information to guide selection of engineered proteins that are most likely to meet performance benchmarks for a given clinical application .
Meiosis is the cell division used by sexually reproducing species to produce sperm and egg cells . During meiosis , programmed Double Strand Breaks ( DSBs ) occur on each chromosome , which allows DNA to be exchanged between chromosome pairs , resulting in crossovers ( COs ) . COs are necessary to ensure faithful chromosome segregation during meiosis , and thus fertility , but are also an important source of genetic variation . As such , CO formation is tightly regulated . Despite this , CO frequency can be altered by external factors , such as temperature . In Arabidopsis thaliana , COs are formed through two pathways: interference-sensitive ( Type I ) and interference-insensitive ( Type II ) . An increase in temperature results in an increase in CO frequency . Using a pollen based assay , we show that COs are formed in the Type I pathway , which accounts for approximately 85% of the COs in Arabidopsis . To investigate whether temperature-dependent COs are the result of additional DSBs , we used immunological staining to examine protein foci , which mark the sites of DSBs . We discovered that temperature likely increases CO frequency by shifting alternative repair outcomes , called non-crossovers , to favor additional COs , rather than by increasing DSBs . Lastly , we found that temperature is not a general stress response , as plants subject to salt stress did not exhibit an increase in CO frequency . Our results may prove valuable in aiding plant breeding by enhancing our ability to rapidly introgress suites of elite traits from wild-plants into their crop relatives , a method that is particularly attractive as it does not require genetic modifications .
Recent technology has made it possible to do experiments that show hundreds or even thousands of genes that play a role in a disease or other biological phenomena . Interpreting these experimental results in the light of everything that has ever been published about any of those genes is often overwhelming , and the failure to take advantage of all prior knowledge may impede biomedical research . The computer program described in this paper “reads” the biomedical literature and molecular biology databases , “reasons” about what all that information means to this experiment , and “reports” on its findings in a way that makes digesting all of this information far more efficient than ever before possible . Analysis of a large , complex dataset with this tool led rapidly to the creation of a novel hypothesis about the role of several genes in the development of the tongue , which was then confirmed experimentally .
Over the last decade , it has become recognised that extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are important mediators of communication by transferring molecular signals ( including proteins , lipids , complex carbohydrates , mRNA , microRNA and other non-coding RNA species ) , between cells . Variously described as exosomes or microvesicles depending on their cellular origin and mode of biogenesis , EVs perform a variety of roles in the maintenance of normal physiology but also participate in pathological settings . EVs also play an important role in host-pathogen interactions , with recent work suggesting that they contribute to helminth immunomodulatory strategies . Here we have identified the proteins and sugars displayed on the outer surface of two sub-types of EVs released by the helminth pathogen Fasciola hepatica . We show that the proteins are antigenic and direct EV internalisation by host macrophages . Our study provides a better understanding of how parasite-derived EVs interact with host cells which is important for future development of therapeutics/vaccines that target this interface .
CDFs were identified to play roles in the blue light signaling . This study reveals that CDF2 acts as a transcriptional activator or repressor of a group of microRNA ( miRNA ) genes and binds to the pri-miRNA transcripts . This study demonstrates that CDF2 interacts with the Dicer-like 1 ( DCL1 ) complex and suppresses the processing of primary miRNAs . Genetic analysis shows that CDF2 works in the same pathway as miR156 or miR172 to control flowering . The finding that the miRNA accumulation is regulated by a factor at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels may have a broad impact on the miRNA biogenesis field . The regulation of miRNA abundance by CDF2 sheds light on the roles of miRNAs in the light signaling pathways .
Folliculogenesis is a progressive and highly regulated process that requires the tight coordination of metabolism and bidirectional communication between the oocyte and granulosa cells . How this communication is established remains unclear . Here , we find that GGPP-mediated protein geranylgeranylation , a post-translational modification , is essential for the oocyte-granulosa cell communication . GGPP depletion in oocytes inhibits Rho GTPase geranylgeranylation-regulated cell adhesion and impairs Rab GTPase geranylgeranylation-directed cell secretion , which are responsible for the failure to maintain oocyte-granulosa cell communication . This communication defect is probably not able to support the proliferation of granulosa cells from one layer to multiple layers and ultimately results in the failure of the primary-secondary follicle transition and female subfertility . Our findings provide the evidence of GGPP-mediated protein geranylgeranylation involving in regulating primary-secondary follicle transition and establish a novel link between folliculogenesis and GGPP-regulated membrane dynamics .
In eukaryotic cells , the RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a central enzyme that reads the genetic information encoded in the DNA template to synthetize a messenger RNA . To perform its function , Pol II needs to have the substrate nucleoside triphosphate ( NTP ) diffuse into its deeply buried active site . Despite numerous efforts , the NTP entry routes remain elusive: NTP could diffuse only through the secondary channel , or also via the main channel . The structural information of the transcription bubble is essential to study this process , however , the unpaired non-template DNA of the transcription bubble is absent in the available X-ray crystal structures . In this regard , we have built a structural model of the Pol II elongation complex with reconstructed transcription bubble using existing experimental data . We then performed Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) simulations and applied structural analysis to study the routes of NTP diffusion . We found that sterically the probability of NTP loading through the secondary channel is more than twice that of the main channel . Further analysis of the non-bonded energetic contributions to NTP diffusion suggests that NTP diffusion through the main channel is greatly disfavored by the electrostatic repulsion between the substrate and negatively charged backbones of nucleotides in the non-template strand of the transcription bubble . Altogether , our findings suggest that the secondary channel is the more favorable NTP diffusion route for Pol II transcription elongation .
Dengue is a major public health problem especially in tropical and subtropical countries of Asia and Latin-America . An effective dengue vaccine is not yet available , but several vaccine candidates are currently being evaluated in clinical trials . Accurate country-level incidence data are crucial to assess the cost-effectiveness of such vaccines and will assist policy-makers in making vaccine introduction decisions . Existing national surveillance systems are often passive and are designed to monitor trends and to detect disease outbreaks . Our analyses of data from prospectively followed cohorts with laboratory confirmation of dengue cases show that , in Thailand and Cambodia , dengue incidence is underrecognized by more than 8-fold . The magnitude of the outpatient burden caused by dengue is not assessed or reflected by the national surveillance data . We estimate that a median of more than 340 , 000 symptomatic dengue virus infections occurred annually in children less than 15 years of age in Thailand in Cambodia between 2003 and 2007 .
To fight viral infections , vertebrates have developed a battery of innate and adaptive immune responses aimed at inhibiting viral replication or at killing infected cells . These responses include the early production of innate antiviral cytokines , especially interferons α and β ( IFN-α/β ) , and the activation of cytotoxic lymphocytes such as the innate natural killer ( NK ) cells and the adaptive CD8 T cells . While critical for antiviral defense , cytokine or CD8 T cell responses can be detrimental or even fatal to the host when deregulated . Therefore , we need to better understand how the different arms of antiviral immunity are regulated . In particular , NK cells are proposed to play a protective role in a variety of viral infection in humans , but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood . Here , in a mouse model of cytomegalovirus infection , we demonstrate that NK cells prevent an excessive production of IFN-α/β and promote more efficient antiviral CD8 T cell responses . We thus show that NK cells can help promote health over disease during viral infections by regulating both innate and adaptive immune responses . It will be important to examine in humans whether NK cells control innate cytokine production to prevent immunopathology and to promote adaptive immunity against herpesviruses , HIV-1 , influenza , or SARS .
Chromatin remodeling plays a central role in controlling gene expression in all eukaryotic organisms . Chromatin can be found in a repressive or transcriptionally inactive state ( heterochromatin ) or in a more permissive or transcriptionally active state ( euchromatin ) . The building block of chromatin is the nucleosome , which consists of four histones , H2A , H2B , H3 , and H4 , surrounded by 147 base pairs of DNA . In addition , a linker histone H1 directs the path of DNA between adjacent nucleosomes to form the chromatin fiber . Chromatin compaction also depends on DNA methylation and on a number of histone modifications , including methylation and acetylation of histone tails . However , other non-histone proteins are required to direct chromatin structure and remodeling . Nucleolin is a major nucleolar protein involved not only in rRNA transcription and processing of 45S pre–rRNA transcribed by RNA Pol I , but also in the control of RNA pol II transcription in the nucleoplasm . Through genetic , molecular , and immunocytological approaches , we studied the role of this protein in vivo in controlling rRNA chromatin structure and the expression of hundreds of clustered rRNA genes using the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana .
A key event in regulating gene expression involves changes in the acetylation status of core histones . Regulation is accomplished by a balance between the addition of acetyl groups by histone acetyltransferase enzymes and removal of the moieties by deacetylases . These changes are essential in regulating cellular differentiation and proliferation and , likewise , disruption results in a variety of pathologies , including cancer . In addition , these key regulators are targeted by herpesviruses to ensure persistent infection during the life of the host . In the case of the herpesvirus human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , changes in histone acetylation have been implicated in the choice between latent and acute phases of infection . We have used a focused proteomics approach to identify proteins that are interacting with and regulating the histone deacetylase 1 ( HDAC1 ) protein during acute cytomegalovirus infection . Our studies identified numerous cellular and viral proteins including HCMV pUL29/28 . This protein bound to components of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex , NuRD , and functional NuRD components were necessary for HCMV gene expression and infection . Our study demonstrates a new tool for studying host-pathogen interactions as well as provides new insights into the complex regulation of HDAC1 during HCMV replication .
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of pneumonia and bronchiolitis among infants and children globally . In the United States , RSV infections lead to 57 , 000 hospitalizations among young children , especially in those less than one year old . Furthermore , despite the development of immunity following RSV infection during childhood , individuals remain susceptible to RSV upper respiratory tract reinfection . In the current study we explored the antibody repertoires following primary RSV infection and their evolution in adolescents and adults . Whole genome-fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) expressing linear and conformational epitopes from RSV fusion protein ( F ) and attachment protein ( G ) were used for unbiased epitope profiling of sera prior to and following RSV infection . In addition , Plasmon Surface Resonance ( SPR ) was used to measure antibody binding to F and G peptides and proteins . A steady increase in RSV-F epitope repertoires from young children to adults was observed . Several novel epitopes were identified in pre-fusion F and an immunodominant epitope in F0-p27 . For RSV-G , antibody responses were high following RSV infection in children , but declined in adults . This study identified unlinked evolution of anti-F and anti G responses that could help development of better RSV vaccines and therapies .
Emodepside is an anthelmintic drug that is used for treatment of nematode infections in cats and dogs . A potassium channel , SLO-1 , has been implicated as a target for emodepside in the nematode model Caenorhabditis elegans . The anthelmintic effects of emodepside has been demonstrated against filariae , but its molecular mode of action requires further elucidation . Here , we show that emodepside activates SLO-1 channels in the human filaria , Brugia malayi , one of the causative agents of lymphatic filariasis . Emodepside is more potent on male than on the female B . malayi . Worms where slo-1 was knocked down were less susceptible to emodepside . Alternative splicing of the slo-1 gene in the region encoding the RCK1 domain , results in the expression of SLO-1F and SLO-1A in female worms and SLO-1F alone in male worms . SLO-1F expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes was more sensitive to emodepside than SLO-1A or a combination of SLO-1A and SLO-1F . Selective knockdown of slo-1a in female worms increased their emodepside sensitivity , so their sensitivity resembled male worms . Emodepside binds to the RCK1 region of SLO-1 in in-silico protein interaction studies of the SLO-1 sequences of different filariod species . This is the first report demonstrating a gender-specific effect of emodepside correlating directly to the expression of alternatively spliced isoforms of SLO-1 . This study emphasizes that the gender-dependent effects should always be considered when evaluating the efficacy profile of an anthelmintic drug candidate .
Lymphatic filariasis is a disfiguring parasitic infection tens of millions of people in more than 70 countries . The global effort to eliminate LF transmission via mass drug administration ( MDA ) relies on rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) to identify infected individuals and map afflicted areas . This effort is complicated in loiasis-endemic nations of central Africa for two reasons . First , persons with heavy L . loa infections may suffer severe adverse events , including death , following treatment with MDA medications . Second , it is now clear that RDT testing for LF can be unreliable in areas with loiasis , since many L . loa-infected individuals , especially those with heavy infections , test positive by LF RDT in the absence of infection with W . bancrofti ( the causative agent of LF in Africa ) . We report here the identity and characteristics of multiple L . loa antigens found in RDT-positive sera that bind to antibodies used in LF RDTs . Understanding the differences between these cross-reactive antigens and the circulating filarial antigen of W . bancrofti may lead to development of improved diagnostic tests for LF and loiasis to facilitate elimination of filarial infections in Sub-Saharan Africa .
Ciliopathies are genetic disorders that arise from loss or mutation of genes that encode proteins which play roles in the biology of cilia , organelles found on most of the cells in the human body . Ciliopathy-associated ailments include–but are not limited to–kidney dysfunction , blindness , skeletal abnormalities , as well as brain disorders . Although a great number of cilium-targeted proteins are known , it is thought that a large proportion remain unidentified . Here , we use a developmental gene expression series to discover novel cilia genes in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans . We present several cilium-localised proteins resulting from our analysis , including RAB-28 , a GTPase previously implicated in the degenerative eye disease known as cone-rod dystrophy . Through live videomicroscopy , we show that RAB-28 undergoes bidirectional transport within the cilium . A RAB-28 inactivating mutation results in loss of transport , while an activating mutation results in stronger localisation at the ciliary base and robust transport , although overexpression results in a variety of cilia-related defects . Both the wild type and activating mutant proteins require the Bardet-Biedl Syndrome-related complex of proteins for their transport , linking RAB-28 to an established ciliary transport machinery .
We construct our understanding of the world solely from neuronal activity generated in our brains . How do we do this ? Many studies have investigated how neural activity is related to outside stimuli , and maps of these relationships ( often called receptive fields ) are routinely computed from data collected in neuroscience experiments . Yet how the brain can understand the meaning of this activity , without the dictionary provided by these maps , remains a mystery . We tackle this fundamental question in the context of hippocampal place cells—i . e . , neurons in rodent hippocampus whose activity is strongly correlated to the animal's position in space . We find that the structure of stimulus space can be revealed by exploiting relationships between groups of cofiring neurons in response to different stimuli . We provide a ‘proof of principle’ by demonstrating constructively how the topology of space and the animal's position in an environment can be derived purely from the action potentials fired by hippocampal place cells . In this way , the brain may be able to build up structured representations of stimulus spaces that are then used to represent external stimuli .
The NLRP3 inflammasome and IL-1β play essential roles in mediating the primary inflammatory responses against pathogen invasions in the host . Hyperactivation of this signaling pathway can lead to life-threatening diseases under certain circumstances . However , it is not clear if NLRP3 inflammasome activation participates in the pathogenesis of viral fulminant hepatitis ( FH ) , a clinical severe syndrome characterized by acute inflammation in the liver along with massive necrosis of hepatocytes and hepatic encephalopathy during viral infection . Using a mouse viral FH model by infection with murine hepatitis virus strain-3 ( MHV-3 ) , we observed a significant macrophage induction and the serum and liver massive accumulation of IL-1β . Conversely , interruption of IL-1β signals results in attenuation of the MHV-3-induced hepatitis and mortality . Blocking IL-1β activity reduces the virus-induced expression of fibrinogen-like protein-2 ( FGL2 ) in macrophages , and limits the liver recruitment of CD45+Gr-1high neutrophils upon the virus infection . We further show that proIL-1β is bioprocessed by NLRP3 inflammasome . Deletion of the components in the inflammasome complex , including NLRP3 and Caspase-1 , leads to reduction in the virus-induced IL-1β production and lessening of disease progression . Further studies show that macrophages in deficiency of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate ( NADPH ) oxidase subunit p47phox , a protein that controls acute ROS production , prevents NLRP3 inflammasome activation and IL-1β secretion , suggesting that the virus-induced ROS production can directly initiate NLRP3 inflammasome activation . Therefore , p47phox-/- mice exhibited certain degrees of MHV-3 resistance . Taken together , these results demonstrate that ROS/NLRP3/IL-1β is the key pathway signaling exacerbated inflammatory responses that cause viral FH in mice , suggesting that mediation of this signal cascade may benefit on the disease treatment .
Hookworm infections are a major cause of childhood anemia and iron deficiency . Two hookworm species exist of which Ancylostoma duodenale is the less common , yet causing more blood loss than Necator americanus . Although species differentiation and quantification are both of clinical importance , these are often not performed as the technique is complex and laborious using microscopy . Multiplex real-time PCR is a novel diagnostic tool which allows hookworm species differentiation and infection quantification . We applied this test in 830 stool samples of Malawian children with and without severe anemia . The prevalence of hookworm infections was high . A . duodenale was unexpectedly more prevalent than N . americanus . A . duodenale infections were associated with increased risk for severe anemia and iron deficiency , both of which increased with infection load . The study identifies a need for the quantitative screening of species-specific hookworm infections , which readily can be achieved by real-time-PCR . A . duodenale was independently associated with severe anemia and iron deficiency in our study population .
Sexually reproducing animals create germ cells via meiosis , a cell division program that requires the induction and faithful repair of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . Meiotic DSBs are typically repaired via homologous recombination ( HR ) , an error-free repair pathway that generates transient links between homologous chromosomes , named crossovers ( COs ) , which are needed for proper chromosome segregation . To date , it is unclear how germ cells channel these programmed DSBs into HR and not into error-prone DSB repair pathways such as non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) . We used the genetically tractable animal model Caenorhabditis elegans to study the mechanisms underlying the strong HR bias in germ cells . Here , we identify COM-1 , the worm homolog of CtIP , as a crucial regulator of meiotic DSB repair pathway choice: COM-1 effectively blocks the action of the NHEJ complex Ku , thereby assuring correct repair via HR . In addition , we show that unscheduled NHEJ activity during meiosis leads to a lack of COs , extensive chromosomal aggregation , and near-complete embryonic lethality . Further genetic dissection also revealed a redundant and stage-specific role for COM-1 in meiotic HR . Our work thus establishes COM-1/CtIP as a caretaker of germline genome stability and unveils meiotic NHEJ as a potent source of chromosomal aberrations in newborns .
B . pseudomallei infection , the causative agent of melioidosis , results in severe disseminated or localized infections . A systemic study of the humoral immune response to B . pseudomallei infection using the B . pseudomallei aerosol caprine model would help understand the detectable antigenic proteins as the infection progresses . To study the immune response , IgG and IgM antibody responses to whole cell lysate proteins were identified and analyzed . Antigenic carbohydrates were also studied . From the results , this study suggests that the caprine humoral immune response to aerosolized B . pseudomallei has similarities to human melioidosis and may facilitate the analysis of the temporal antibody responses . In addition , commonly detected immunogenic proteins may be used as biomarkers for the future point of care ( POC ) diagnostics .
When active , the enzyme cyclin B1–cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( Cdk1 ) commits a growing cell to the process of mitotic cell division and chromosome separation . Cyclin B1–Cdk1 activation is controlled in many ways , but once its activity rises above a certain level , further activation of cyclin B1–Cdk1 is catalyzed by a positive-feedback loop . This generates highly active cyclin B1–Cdk1 and triggers the start of mitosis , which can only be completed when cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity is properly shut off again . However , it is not clear how cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity develops in human cells or how the switch between its inactive and active states is controlled . Our work combines activation measurements with a kinetic model to study how cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity accumulates just before and during mitosis . We show that cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity develops gradually in early mitosis and that different activity levels are required for initiation of , and progression through , mitosis . We also demonstrate that once cyclin B1–Cdk1 activation is truly launched , it is bound to continue and will not lightly drop back again . We propose that the successive cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity levels by themselves may coordinate the progression through the distinct phases of mitosis .
Learning how to elicit a potent , cross-reactive neutralizing antibody ( Nab ) response capable of protecting against globally diverse human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( HIV-1 ) subtypes is critical to the development of an HIV-1 vaccine . We and others have previously shown that HIV-1 superinfection ( SI ) , or sequential infections from different partners , broadens and strengthens the Nab response . However , until now it was unclear whether SI also impacts the specificity , or epitope targets , of the antibody response . Previous studies have shown that the majority of singly infected individuals with broad and potent responses develop Nabs to 4 main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope . In contrast , here we show that none of the 21 SI cases in our Kenyan cohort developed Nabs that strongly target these epitopes . Our study helps to inform vaccine design by highlighting the prospect of eliciting broad and diverse HIV-specific Nab responses through sequential exposure to different HIV antigens .
Congenital human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection is the leading cause of neurological disabilities in children , but the underlying pathogenesis of this infection remains unclear . Hes1 , an important effector of Notch signaling , governs the fate of neural progenitor cells ( NPCs ) and fetal brain development . Here we demonstrate that: ( 1 ) HCMV infection results in loss of Hes1 protein in NPCs; ( 2 ) the HCMV immediate-early 1 protein ( IE1 ) mediates Hes1 protein downregulation through direct interaction , which requires amino acids 451–475; ( 3 ) IE1 assembles a Hes1 ubiquitination complex and mediates Hes1 ubiquitination; and ( 4 ) IE1 also assembles an Sp100A ubiquitination complex and mediates Sp100A ubiquitination , but does not require amino acids 451–475 . These results suggest that HCMV IE1 is a potential E3 ubiquitin ligase . Downregulation of Hes1 by HCMV infection and IE1 implies a novel mechanism linking Hes1 depletion to virus-induced neuropathogenesis .
Inter-species differences in gene expression during development are a major source of phenotypic diversity , yet the molecular origins of such differences are poorly understood . In this study we use a combination of biochemical and genomic methods to explore how an important component of the machinery of gene regulation varies between species . We mapped the genomic sites bound by four specific proteins regulating gene expression along the head to tail axis of young embryos of four diverse species of fruit flies . We were surprised at the extent of variation we observed , especially as we found far less variation in gene expression between these same species' embryos . We conclude , based on various analyses of our binding divergence data , that most of the time these regulators bind to DNA they have no effect on gene expression , and therefore natural selection does not act to preserve these interactions between species .
Lymphatic filariasis is a mosquito-borne parasitic disease caused by filarial worms . Over 120 million people are infected and 43 million have chronic disease . Since 2000 , most of the endemic countries launched mass drug administration ( MDA ) programme with a goal to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020 . MDA impact is monitored by assessing microfilaraemia ( Mf ) prevalence from a few sites and when it drops to <1% after 5 rounds of MDA each with >65% coverage , transmission assessment surveys ( TAS ) are carried out to decide on stopping further MDA . We used a mass blood survey in two primary health centres to assess the epidemiological situation after 8 rounds of MDA and evaluated the soundness of conclusions drawn from monitoring a few sites for initiating TAS . Mf-prevalence was 0 . 2% , both in the survey and monitoring sites , justifying the need for TAS , although data on MDA coverage was not available . The antigenaemia-prevalence in children born during the MDA period was 0 . 8% , well below the level ( <1% ) , required for stopping MDA . However , we identified a few sites with ongoing transmission ( ‘hotspots’ ) and spatial clustering of infection which indicate the need for good sampling/surveillance strategies to detect such ‘hotspots’ .
Dengue remains largely uncontrolled globally . Prevention and control relies on vector control methods , and good case management is key to reducing mortality . For vector control several methods exist , including biological and chemical interventions , and environmental modifications . The application of the organophosphate larvicide temephos to water storage containers is one of the most commonly employed dengue vector control methods . This systematic literature review assesses the community-effectiveness of temephos in controlling both vectors and dengue transmission when delivered either as a single intervention or in combination with other interventions . 27 studies were included in this systematic review ( 11 single intervention studies and 16 combined intervention studies ) . All 11 single intervention studies showed consistently that using temephos led to a reduction in entomological indices . Although 11 of the 16 combined intervention studies showed that temephos application together with other chemical vector control methods also reduced entomological indices , this was either not sustained over time or–as in the five remaining studies—failed to reduce the immature stages . Temephos was found to be effective at suppressing entomological indices , however , the same effect has not been observed when temephos was applied in combination with other interventions . There is no evidence to suggest that temephos use is associated with reductions in dengue transmission .
During cell division , chromosomes must be distributed accurately to daughter cells to protect against aneuploidy , a state in which cells have too few or too many chromosomes , and which is associated with diseases such as cancer and birth defects . This process begins with the generation of an exact copy of each chromosome and the establishment of tight linkages that hold the newly duplicated sister chromosomes together . These linkages , generated by the cohesin complex , are essential to resist the pulling forces of the spindle , which will pull the sister chromosomes apart into the two new daughter cells . Here we examine the establishment of cohesin at the pericentromere , the region surrounding the site of spindle attachment and where its forces are strongest . We find that a dedicated pathway promotes cohesin establishment in this region through a two-step mechanism . In the first step , a group of proteins , known as the Ctf19 complex , promote the association of cohesin with this region . In the second step , the Csm3 protein , which is coupled to the DNA replication machinery , ensures its conversion into functional linkages . We demonstrate the importance of this process for accurate chromosome segregation during cell division .
Dengue virus is the most widespread arbovirus and a major public health threat in the tropical and subtropical areas of the world . As yet , little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying infection , and there is no specific treatment or vaccine that is currently effective against the disease . Metabolomics and lipidomics provide global views of metabolome and lipidome landscapes and implicate metabolic to disease phenotype . We performed serum metabolic and lipidomic profiling on a cohort of dengue patients with three sampling time points at early febrile , defervescence , and convalescent stages via mass spectrometry-based analytical platforms . Compared with healthy subjects , approximately two hundred metabolites showed significant difference in dengue patients , and 60 were identified . This study revealed that in primary dengue infection , the host metabolome is tightly regulated , with active , early anti-inflammatory processes modulating the pro-inflammatory processes , suggesting the self-limiting phenotype of dengue fever . Major perturbed metabolic pathways included fatty acid biosynthesis , fatty acid β-oxidation , phospholipid catabolism , steroid hormone pathway , etc . This represents a first report on the characterization of the serum metabolome and significantly advances our understanding on host and dengue virus interactions . These differential metabolites have the potential as biomarkers for disease monitoring and evaluation of therapeutic interventions .
Neglected tropical disease research has changed considerably in recent decades , and the German government is committed to addressing its past neglect of NTD research . Our aim was to use an innovative social network analysis of bibliometric data to map neglected tropical disease research networks that are inside of and affiliated with Germany , thereby enabling data-driven health policy decision-making . We created and analysed co-author networks from publications in the SCOPUS database , with a focus on five diseases . We found that Germany's share of global publication output for NTDs is approximately half that of other medical research fields . Furthermore , we identified institutions with prominent NTD research within Germany and strong research collaborations between German institutions and partners abroad , mostly in other high-income countries . This allowed an assessment of strong collaborations for further development , e . g . , for research capacity strengthening in low-income-countries , but also for identifying missed opportunities for collaboration within the network . Through co-authorship network analysis of individual researcher networks , we identified strong performers by using classic bibliometric parameters , and we identified academic talent by social network analysis parameters on an individual level .
We present evidence of Haiti’s successful neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) program targeting lymphatic filariasis and soil-transmitted helminths and the methods used to achieve this success . By 2012 , Haiti’s NTD program had reached full national scale , with such consistently good treatment coverage that the program is now able to stop treatment for lymphatic filariasis in much of the country . These findings are in line with the predictions and expectations of the global community for countries where high coverage is achieved for program implementation . In addition to the evidence of successful program outcomes , we present a detailed description of how the program was implemented—from facilitating the effectiveness of the drug distributors to improving drug logistics and supporting a well-informed population . These methods described can be used to inform the design of other mass drug administration programs and enhance the development of global “best practices” guidance .
In order to propagate , all living cells must ensure that their genetic material is faithfully copied and properly partitioned into the daughter cells before division . These coordinated processes of DNA replication and cell division are termed the “cell cycle” and are controlled by a complex network of regulatory proteins in all organisms . In the class Alphaproteobacteria , the regulation of the cell cycle is closely linked to cellular differentiation processes that are vital for survival in the environment . In these bacteria , the cell cycle regulator CtrA is thought to serve as the primary link between the coordination of the cell cycle and cellular differentiation . The alphaproteobacterium , Sinorhizobium meliloti , an important model symbiont of alfalfa plants , undergoes a striking cellular differentiation that is vital to the formation of an efficient symbiosis dedicated to the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen to biologically available organic nitrogen . However , the link between cellular differentiation and cell cycle control in S . meliloti has not been made . In this study , we showed that S . meliloti cells without CtrA are similar to the symbiotic form . By the identification of the genes whose expression is directly and indirectly controlled by CtrA , we found that CtrA regulates vital cell cycle processes , including DNA replication and cell division , but through different genetic pathways than in other alphaproteobacteria . We importantly show that the levels of CtrA protein are governed by an essential cell cycle regulated proteolysis , which may also be an important mode of CtrA down-regulation during symbiosis to drive cellular differentiation .
The role of nutrient acquisition systems in survival and multiplication of intracellular bacterial pathogens within infected cells is yet poorly understood . The data presented here suggest that Francisella tularensis , a highly infectious facultative intracellular bacterium , is capable of utilizing glutathione ( GSH ) and γ–glutamyl-cysteine peptides present in the cytosol of infected host cells . An in vitro negative selection method , based on the use of a bacteriostatic antibiotic , to recover intracellular growth mutants directly from a pool of mutants , allowed us to select one mutant in a gene encoding a γ-glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ) . The mutant strain showed impaired intracellular multiplication and was strongly attenuated for virulence in mice . The cleavage of these cysteine-containing peptides by GGT activity provides thus the essential source of cysteine required for intracellular multiplication . The capacity F . tularensis has evolved to utilize GSH , the most abundant source of cysteine in the host cytosol , constitutes a model of bacterial adaptation to intracellular lifestyle .
Many non-viral intracellular pathogens lodge within cell vesicles known as “parasitophorous vacuoles” ( PVs ) , which exhibit a variety of pathogen-dependent functional and compositional phenotypes . PVs of the protozoan Leishmania are similar to the digestive organelles known as phagolysosomes . We asked if , in phagocytes infected with two different Leishmania species , would the two parasites be found in the same or in separate vacuoles ? Of the species chosen , Leishmania amazonensis develops within large vacuoles which shelter many parasites; in contrast , Leishmania major lodges in small PVs containing one or two parasites . In the present experiments , the species and their life-cycle stages ( extracellular promastigotes , and intracellular amastigotes ) were distinguished by means of fluorescent markers , and the intracellular localization of the parasites was examined in living cells . We report here that , whereas L . major amastigotes remained within their individual vacuoles , L . major promastigotes were delivered to L . amazonensis vacuoles , in which they survived and multiplied but were unable to differentiate into amastigotes . A species-specific vacuole was thus required for L . major differentiation . The model should be useful in cellular and molecular studies of the biology of these parasites and of their parasitophorous vacuoles .
Here we show that native HIV-1 Env spikes expressed in a natural membrane context can induce potent tier 2 nAbs in rabbits . These antibodies reacted exclusively with epitopes present on these trimers and not with isolated Env subunits . Intriguingly , the neutralizing sera were found to take advantage of natural gaps in the carbohydrate defenses of Env spikes of the vaccine strain . Some sera were able to neutralize heterologous isolates , provided that a key , regulating glycan was removed . Overall , these findings suggest that native , membrane-expressed trimers hold promise for further development as vaccine candidates . In the future , by adapting our current findings , we might be able to encourage nAb development to key conserved sites by introducing additional , targeted gaps in the trimer's glycan shell . We suggest that the rare ability to predictably induce potent autologous neutralizing antibodies to field isolates , as we report here , provides a foundation for exploring new strategies aimed at inducing neutralization breadth which is widely expected to be essential for vaccine-induced protection .
Coagulative tissue necrosis and local immunosuppression caused by the M . ulcerans macrolide toxin mycolactone are typical features of Buruli ulcer disease ( BU ) . In particular in BU endemic remote rural areas of West Africa , patients often report with large ulcerated lesions . Despite the availability of an effective dual antimycobacterial antibiotic therapy , some ulcerative lesions may take long time to healing and represent a major burden for the patients as well as for the health system . Proper wound healing is a well-orchestrated process involving numerous cellular and acellular components . Here we have performed immunohistochemical studies with tissue from BU lesions collected before , during and after antibiotic treatment . We identified a set of markers which are appropriate to evaluate formation of granulation tissue ( alpha-smooth muscle positive fibroblasts ) , matrix deposition ( pro-collagen 1 , fibronectin and tenascin C ) , cell activation ( phosphorylated S6 ) , hyper proliferation of the epidermis ( cytokeratin 16 ) and apoptosis ( cleaved caspase 3 ) during wound healing . These markers may become suitable for assessing progression of tissue repair and for investigating the functional basis of impaired wound healing .
As mitochondria are the main power source for most cells , their correct localization is vital for cellular homeostasis . The morphological and functional complexity of neurons , and the unpredictability of energy demand resulting from sustained impulse activity , means that correct mitochondrial function and location is particularly important for these cells . However , it is unclear how mitochondrial transport responds to the wide range of physiological conduction frequencies experienced by an intact nervous system . Here we image mitochondria moving along mouse saphenous nerve axons in vivo and observe the effects of sustained trains of impulses , evoked either by electrical stimulation of myelinated axons at physiological frequencies ( 1 and 50 Hz ) , or chemical stimulation ( cutaneous capsaicin ) in unmyelinated axons . We find that the number and speed of mitochondria moving towards the peripheral sensory terminals dramatically increases in active axons . The increased numbers of mobile mitochondria seem to originate from “pinched off” segments of stationary mitochondria ( mitochondrial fission ) , and from recruitment of small stationary mitochondria . The transported mitochondria appear to accumulate in sensory nerve terminals in the skin . This study suggests that mitochondrial fission is involved in rapidly supplying mobile mitochondria to aid their re-distribution to regions of increased metabolic demand along axons .
Whereas there is a large foundation of knowledge concerning skeletal formation and development , identifying the molecular changes behind Intervertebral Disc ( IVD ) aging and degeneration has been a challenge . The loss of Filamin B , a protein component of the cell’s cytoskeletal structure , gives rise to Spondylocarpotarsal Synostosis , a rare genetic disorder characterized by fusions of the vertebral bodies . Similarly , mice lacking the Filamin B protein show fusions of the vertebral bodies . We found that these fusions are caused by the early degeneration and eventual ossification of the IVDs . Our study demonstrates that this degeneration is caused by the increase in TGFβ and BMP activity , developmental pathways essential in bone and cartilage formation . These findings represent a significant step forward in our understanding of the molecular basis of IVD degeneration . as well as revealing filamin B’s role in TGFβ/BMP signaling regulation . Moreover , we demonstrate that the study of the rare disease spondylocarpotarsal synostosis in a model organism can uncover mechanisms underlying more common diseases . Finally , our findings provide a model system that will facilitate further discoveries regarding disc degeneration , which affects a significant proportion of the population .
Viruses target the innate immune system at critical vulnerability points . Here we show that the orthomyxovirus Thogoto virus impairs activity of general transcription factor IIB ( TFIIB ) . Surprisingly , impairment of TFIIB function does not result in a general inhibition of transcription but in a rather specific impairment of selective genes . Transcriptome and functional analyses intersected with published CHIP-Seq datasets suggest that affected genes require de novo recruitment of the polymerase complex . Since the innate immune system heavily relies on genes that require de novo recruitment of the polymerase complex , targeting of TFIIB represents a neat mechanism to broadly affect antiviral immunity . Conversely , therapeutic targeting of TFIIB may represent a mechanism to limit pathological side effects caused by overshooting immune reactions .
Human parvovirus B19 ( B19V ) is an autonomously replicating parvovirus with a marked tropism for human erythroid progenitor cells ( EPCs ) in the bone marrow and fetal liver . B19V infection results in several hematological disorders , which are a direct consequence of the infection and death of infected EPCs . One of the most significant sequelae of B19V infection of EPCs is G2-phase arrest , which has a marked effect on hematopoiesis . Here , we identify a key mechanism underlying B19V-induced G2-phase arrest . B19V NS1 is a global transactivator of cellular genes and as such activates ATR . ATR activation transduced signals to CDC25C and inactivated the cyclin B/CDK1 complex , which in turn prevented progression to cellular mitosis . However , NS1-induced ATR activation did not induce an obvious DNA damage response . Thus , B19V NS1 activates the ATR-CHK1-CDC25C-CDK1 pathway per se through its function as a transcriptional transactivator , highlighting the important role of ATR activation during G2-phase arrest of B19V-infected EPCs .
Dengue is the most prevalent mosquito-transmitted disease in humans and a significant public health issue worldwide . Severe dengue disease is characterized by vascular leak , which can lead to shock and potentially death . We previously demonstrated that nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ) , the only protein secreted from dengue virus ( DENV ) -infected cells , can both trigger vascular leak in mice when given systemically and increase permeability in human pulmonary endothelial cells via disruption of the endothelial glycocalyx-like layer , the molecular barrier that lines blood vessels . NS1 also triggers release of inflammatory cytokines from immune cells through activation of Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) . Here , we explored the relative contributions of inflammatory molecules and the endothelial glycocalyx-like layer to NS1-mediated pathogenesis . Using cultured human dermal endothelial cells and mice genetically deficient for TLR4 or TNF-α receptor , we showed inflammatory signaling is not required for direct DENV NS1-mediated vascular leak . In contrast , inhibition of molecules involved in glycocalyx disruption blocked DENV NS1-induced vascular leak both in mice and in vitro . Altogether , our results indicate that disruption of endothelial glycocalyx components but not production of inflammatory cytokines is required for the direct action of DENV NS1 on endothelial cells and suggest potential molecular targets for treatment of severe dengue disease .
During asymmetric cell division , spindle positioning is critical for ensuring the unequal inheritance of polarity factors . In budding yeast , the constriction between mother cell and bud , the bud neck , determines the cleavage plane . Cytoskeletal proteins called septins form a ring at the bud neck that serves as scaffold for the recruitment of proteins required for cytokinesis . The septin ring also interacts with cytoplasmic microtubules to orient the spindle along the mother–bud axis and to ensure that each daughter cell inherits one full set of chromosomes . A surveillance device called Spindle Position Checkpoint ( SPOC ) oversees this process and delays mitotic exit and cytokinesis until the spindle is properly oriented along the division axis , thus ensuring genome stability . Feedback mechanisms responding to spindle mispositioning likely exist also in higher eukaryotes . In this manuscript , we show that two budding yeast ubiquitin ligases are involved in the regulation of septin dynamics and the SPOC by promoting the bud neck localization of the Elm1 protein kinase , which in turn participates in both processes . Altogether our data indicate that bud neck integrity and septins are important for SPOC signalling and that the two processes are controlled by a common regulatory module .
Classical studies that examined the global distributions of human physiological traits such as pigmentation , basal metabolic rate , and body shape and size suggested that natural selection related to climate has been important during recent human evolutionary history . We scanned the human genome using data for about 650 , 000 variants in 61 worldwide populations to look for correlations between allele frequencies and 9 climate variables and found evidence for adaptations to climate at the genome-wide level . In addition , we detected compelling signals for individual SNPs involved in pigmentation and immune response , as well as for pathways related to UV radiation , infection and immunity , and cancer . A particularly appealing aspect of this approach is that we identify a set of candidate advantageous SNPs associated with specific biological hypotheses , which will be useful for follow-up testing . We developed an online resource to browse the results of our data analyses , allowing researchers to quickly assess evidence for selection in a particular genomic region and to compare it across several studies .
Sudden cardiac death may arise in individuals with diseased heart tissue , or in apparently healthy subjects who suffer from genetic defects in ‘ion channel’ proteins , which increase cardiac arrhythmia risk and are associated with significant morbidity and mortality . One rare , though serious , genetic condition is the ‘short QT syndrome’ ( SQTS ) . Although it is now known that the KCNH2-encoded N588K-hERG mutation is associated with the main ( SQT1 ) variant of the SQTS , the mechanisms by which ventricular arrhythmia is initiated and sustained are still unclear due to lack of genotypically accurate experimental models . In this study , we used sophisticated multi-scale computer models of human ventricles in order to investigate the pro-arrhythmic effects of the N588K hERG mutation . It was found that the mutation accelerated the ventricular repolarization process , produced augmented electrical heterogeneity in some local regions of the tissue , leading to increased risk of arrhythmia genesis . It was also found that accelerated ventricular repolarization reduced the substrate size of the tissue required to sustain re-entrant circuits in both two and three dimensions . This study provides new mechanistic insight into understanding of how changes to hERG channel function in SQT1 lead to exacerbated ventricular arrhythmia risk in this inherited arrhythmia syndrome .
Simple models have traditionally been very successful , because they usually provide more insight than complicated models . This is particularly true in physics , where simple models can often give highly precise quantitative predictions . However , biology is fundamentally complex and thus it is difficult to find simple models that give precise predictions . To create models that are both precise and insightful , we propose to harness the power of deep neural networks but to confine them into modules with a low number of inputs and outputs . We trained one such model to predict the future turning side of a fish in a collective . By plotting the different modules we obtain insight about how fish interact and how they aggregate information from different neighbours . This aggregation is dynamical and shows that fish can interact with approximately 20 neighbours but can also focus on fewer neighbours , down to 1-2 , when some move at higher speed in front or to the sides , are very close or are in a collision path .
The introduction of antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) has decreased mortality and morbidity rates among HIV-infected people , and improved their quality of life . In fact , the WHO states that antiretroviral therapy programmes averted an estimated 7 . 8 million deaths worldwide between 2000 and 2014 . However , the antiretroviral regimen prescribed to a patient may be unable to control HIV infection . Factors that can contribute to treatment failure include drug resistance , drug toxicity , or poor treatment adherence . In this study we aim to understand the dynamics of transmitted drug resistance by analysing the viral sequence data that was collected for resistance testing . We present a novel approach to quantify how drug resistance impacts virus lineage transmissibility , how fast resistance mutations evolve in sensitive strains and how fast they revert back to the sensitive type . We apply our approach to the Swiss HIV cohort study , and obtain patterns of viral transmission fitness that are consistent with alternative , harder to obtain measures of fitness .
The success of a biological event such as cellular adaptation to environmental changes requires the complex process of protein expression to be carried out with high efficiency and fidelity . Thus , not only transcription but also mRNA homeostasis and translation have to be performed with maximum efficiency , or survival would be hampered . Our study demonstrates that the role of Elongator , a putative Pol II-associated complex , in survival to stress is to optimize translation efficiency by modifying some particular tRNAs . We show here that Sin3/Elp3 , an Elongator component , participates in the modification of the anticodon of the low copy number tRNALysUUU , which probably favours codon recognition . This tRNA recognizes one of the two codons for lysine , which is down-represented in highly expressed constitutive genes . The stress mRNAs , highly-expressed upon stress conditions , have not adapted their lysine codon usage from AAA-to-AAG , and proper tRNALysUUU modification by Elongator is an alternative strategy to accomplish efficient translation of these AAA-containing , abundant stress mRNAs .
Nef is a pathogenic factor expressed by primate lentiviruses . HIV-1 virions produced by cells that express Nef acquire unknown modifications that allow them to infect new target cells with higher efficiency . We hypothesized that Nef might alter the structure or function of the HIV-1 Env glycoproteins . In this study we tested whether Nef alters the sensitivity of HIV-1 to several agents that inhibit HIV-1 by binding to different parts of Env . We found that Nef confers 10 to 50-fold resistance to neutralization by two antibodies ( 2F5 and 4E10 ) that belong to one of the most powerful classes of neutralizing agents , which are active against a wide range of HIV-1 isolates . We established that Nef decreases the recognition of the virus particles by these antibodies , which bind to a domain of the Env adjacent to the retroviral membrane ( MPER ) . Env from diverse HIV-1 isolates are equally sensitive to this activity , and Nef proteins derived from both HIV-1 and SIV retain the activity . By protecting lentiviruses from one of the most broadly-acting classes of neutralizing antibodies , this new activity of Nef might make a significant contribution to AIDS pathogenesis .
Despite recent significant advances in knowledge of the fundamental biology of the carcinogenic liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini , little is known of the complement of molecular interactions occurring between this parasite and its prosobranch snail intermediate host , Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos . The determination of such interactions is a key , necessary component of the development of future integrated control strategies for liver fluke infection and associated bile duct cancer . Here , we use cutting-edge high-throughput sequencing technologies and advanced bioinformatic analyses to characterize , for the first time , qualitative and quantitative differences in gene expression between uninfected and O . viverrini-infected B . siamensis goniomphalos collected from an endemic region of Northeast Thailand . The analyses led to the identification of a number of molecules putatively involved in immune defense pathways against invading O . viverrini , and of key biological mechanisms potentially implicated in the ability of the parasite to successfully colonize its snail intermediate host . We believe that this ready-to-use molecular resource will provide the scientific community with new tools for the development of strategies to control the spread of liver fluke infection and the resulting bile duct cancer .
The reasons for which some individuals resist Mycobacteria leprae infection , whereas others contract leprosy and only a subgroup of them become severely affected , are still poorly understood . The complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) serves as a gate for bacterial entry in macrophages , but its importance in the spread of infection and emergence of symptoms is unknown . Despite having many common structural and regulatory variants , the CR1 gene was investigated only once in a leprosy association study in Malawi . In order to fill in this gap , we investigated if CR1 polymorphisms are co-responsible for differential disease susceptibility in 213 leprosy patients and 297 controls , also measuring mRNA and soluble CR1 levels . Associations were dependent on specific combinations of variants in regulatory and coding regions , which were also associated with gene and protein expression . Thus , this study corroborates the importance of the CR1 receptor in the susceptibility to leprosy and is the first to bring information about CR1 polymorphisms in the Brazilian population , as well as to show the relationship between genotypes and mRNA and sCR1 levels .
The combination of genomic and metabolic studies during the last years has provided astonishing results . However , most of the studies published so far did not consider the role of sexual dimorphism and did not analyse their data stratified by sex . The investigation of 131 serum metabolite concentrations of >3 , 300 population-based samples ( KORA F3/F4 ) revealed significant differences in the metabolite profile of males and females . Furthermore , a genome-wide picture of sex-specific genetic variations in human metabolism ( >2 , 000 subjects from KORA F3/F4 cohorts ) was investigated . Sex-specific genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) showed differences in the effect of genetic variations on metabolites in men and women . SNPs in the CPS1 ( carbamoyl-phosphate synthase 1 ) locus showed genome-wide significant differences in beta-estimates of sex-specific association analysis ( significance level: 3 . 8×10−10 ) for glycine . As global metabolomic techniques are more and more refined to identify more compounds in single biological samples , the predictive power of this new technology will greatly increase . This suggests that metabolites , which may be used as predictive biomarkers to indicate the presence or severity of a disease , have to be used selectively depending on sex .
One of the challenging tasks in systems biology is to quantitatively predict the metabolic behavior of the cell under given genetic and environmental constraints . To this end , genome-scale metabolic reconstructions and simulation tools are indispensable . The choice of the objective function to be used for simulating genome-scale metabolic models is dependent on the biological context and one of the most relevant parameters for successful modeling . Formulation of the intended objective function often requires the use of multiple fluxes , e . g . the sum of fluxes through ATP-producing reactions . We demonstrate that the existing tools confound biological interpretation of the simulations due to undesired dependence on the representation of stoichiometry and propose a new tool – Minimization of Metabolites Balance ( MiMBl ) . MiMBl allows casting of the desired biological objective functions into linear optimization models and gives consistent simulation results when using numerically different but biochemically equivalent stoichiometry representations . We demonstrate relevance of MiMBl for addressing biological questions through improved predictions of genetic interactions within the yeast metabolic network . Genetic interactions imply functional relationship between the genes and therefore allow assessing different hypotheses for the underlying biological principles . MiMBl explains several of the genetic interactions as outcome of flux re-routing for minimal metabolite turnover adjustments .
Plague ( Yersinia pestis infection ) is a highly virulent disease occurring in many natural ecosystems . One of the major plague foci is Madagascar , where plague has been confined principally to the central highlands since the 1920s . Despite the high prevalence of plague , its ecology has scarcely been studied . Previous studies of plague seroprevalence in humans have suggested that the disease spreads unevenly across landscapes , possibly due to the relief . Plague is primarily a disease of rodents . We therefore investigated the relationship between its distribution and the population genetic structure of its main reservoir , the black rat , Rattus rattus . We used serological and microsatellite-based population genetic analyses to compare four geographic areas of the plague focus ( two mountainous areas , two plateaus ) . Rat populations had a more marked genetic structure in areas of greater relief . The heterogeneous distribution of plague in the highlands may be related to the population genetic structure of its reservoir , but our results suggest also a role for humans in the dispersion of the disease .
Adult schistosome parasites can live in the human bloodstream for years without being adversely affected by the host immune response . Identifying which proteins are on the surface of the parasite and understanding how they contribute to long-term host/parasite relationships is an essential step in developing novel intervention strategies . Here , utilising a comprehensive bioinformatics approach to identify Schistosoma mansoni gene products sharing distinct surface-associated features including signal peptides , hydrophobic C-termini , disulfide bonds and uPAR/Ly6 domains , we identified eleven proteins of interest . These proteins , reassuringly , include three representatives previously found associated with the schistosome surface ( here termed SmLy6A , SmLy6B and SmLy6D ) as well as three novel members ( SmLy6G , SmLy6H and SmLy6J ) . To identify if surface-associated SmLy6 members are recognized by S . mansoni infected individuals , we specifically examined antibody responses to SmLy6A and SmLy6B in an endemic human population . Our work expands the number of putative cell surface associated schistosome proteins and provides a greater understanding of the dynamics of antibody responses in endemic communities against two representatives .
Tissues are intricate , heterogeneous systems , consisting of individual cells whose shapes and relative positions are of great importance to the tissue's function , as well as to its formation during morphogenesis . To make progress in our understanding of the formation of organs , their malfunction , and their therapeutic replacement in regenerative medicine , it is crucial to elucidate the connection between shape and function . We have developed a quantitative mechanical model of an epithelial tissue , the retina of Drosophila , and compare the modeling results with experimental data . The model successfully predicts shape changes induced by different expression levels of cell-cell adhesion molecules . Furthermore , the model gives new insight into the changes a tissue undergoes during morphogenesis . Comparing simulations and experiments , we are able to accept or reject different hypotheses about morphogenetic dynamics . In this way , we can identify the time course of adhesion molecule synthesis and of cell-cell contact , as well as gain new insight into the regulation of adhesion strength . Given the prominent role of adhesion in wound healing , cancer research , and many other fields , our fundamental work introduces a novel modeling tool of universal applicability and importance .
Prevention of invasion is important in cancer therapy . MT1-MMP is a membrane protein involved in degradation of ECM ( extracellular matrix ) that is highly expressed at invadopodia , which are small protrusions of cancer cells . ECM degradation by MT1-MMP at invadopodia is hypothesized as the initial step of cancer cell invasion . However , MT1-MMP is inhibited by the endogenous inhibitor TIMP-2 , so continuous turnover of MT1-MMP at the surface of invadopodia would be required . In agreement , it has been reported that the blockade of vesicle transport , which is one mechanism involved in the turnover , blocked the ECM degradation . However , the turnover rate of MT1-MMP at invadopodia and the extent to which the turnover is critical for the degradation of ECM have not been clarified . In this report we measured the turnover rate of MT1-MMP at a single invadopodium and found rapid turnover rates with time constants of 26 s and 259 s , which primarily depended on the vesicle transport . A computational model was constructed based on the observed kinetics . If we blocked the rapid turnover , the ECM degradation was blocked both experimentally and in simulations . These results established the role of the rapid turnover of MT1-MMP in the ECM degradation at invadopodia .
HIV-1 is difficult to treat because the virus can evolve to become drug-resistant within the body , but we have an incomplete understanding of where drug-resistant viruses originate and how they spread within a person . In this study , four macaques were infected with RT-SHIV , a simian immunodeficiency virus with an HIV-1 reverse transcriptase coding region , which can be targeted with standard HIV drugs . We sampled virus from the macaques before , during and after their viral population became resistant to administered drugs and determined the genetic viral sequences in several parts of the body: blood , lymph nodes , gut , and vagina . We found that drug resistance emerged across compartments nearly simultaneously , and drug resistance evolved multiple independent times within each macaque . Although migration of RT-SHIV between compartments is fast , compartments do not have the same distribution of viral genotypes . This is important because although studies typically sample virus from the blood to study how HIV-1 evolution in humans , our study suggests that it is not fully representative of other parts of the body , particularly the gut .
A large variety of mechanisms have been proposed to explain how the cells of solid tissues work together to produce distinctive structures such as buds , branches , sacs and tubes . Here we identify a novel mechanism that emerges directly out of the processes that cells use to control proliferation and maintain overall tissue sizes . In particular , we focus on the diffusible molecules that regulate lineage progression—the decision by dividing cells either to renew themselves or produce cells of a more differentiated type . When such molecules are produced by cells at specific lineage stages , they create feedback circuits , and positive and negative lineage feedback circuits are often observed together in the same tissue . Here we show that the combination of positive and negative lineage feedback can lead to the emergence of patterned growth from which sharply-demarcated buds and fingers readily emerge , either spontaneously or in response to transient external signals . We show that the types of behaviors that emerge , and the conditions under which they do so , depend strongly on the relative strengths of positive and negative feedback .
The genetic basis of myopia , or nearsightedness , is believed to be complex and affected by multiple genes . Two genetic association studies have each identified a single genetic region associated with myopia in European populations . Here we report the results of the largest ever genetic association study on myopia in over 45 , 000 people of European ancestry . We identified 22 genetic regions significantly associated with myopia age of onset . Two are replications of the previously identified associations , and 20 are novel . Ten of the novel associations replicate in a small separate cohort . Sixteen of the novel associations are in or near genes implicated in eye development , neuronal development and signaling , the visual cycle of the retina , and general morphology: BMP3 , BMP4 , DLG2 , DLX1 , KCNMA1 , KCNQ5 , LAMA2 , LRRC4C , PRSS56 , RBFOX1 , RDH5 , RGR , SFRP1 , TJP2 , ZBTB38 , and ZIC2 . These findings point to numerous biological pathways involved in the development of myopia and , in particular , suggest that early eye and neuronal development may lead to the eventual development of myopia in humans .
When animals move , they receive sensory inputs , which in turn are used to modulate the movement . Relatively little is known about how these inputs affect performance during steady locomotion . Using a computational model of a swimming lamprey , we investigated two different types of feedback , both consistent with experimental data . Both have strong , but different , effects on swimming speed and energy consumption , suggesting that sensory feedback is crucial not just for responding to perturbations , but also for high performance steady locomotion .
The African epicentre of the HIV pandemic is home to a vast array of divergent viruses; however , local epidemics in other parts of the world are typically dominated by a single variant ( subtype ) of the virus , with different subtypes found in the different regions . This pattern indicates that local epidemics outside Africa have been started by the introduction of single “founder” viruses in the susceptible populations . However , how these patterns persisted over several decades in the face of international migration requires further explanation . By analyzing simulated epidemics , we demonstrated that an epidemic established by the first successful founder strain can inhibit the introduction and slow down the subsequent spread of further virus strains by several mechanisms of interference . Our results have implications for the global evolution of the HIV pandemic: the fast expansion of subtypes benefited from a “first comer advantage , ” and founder viruses may have been selected by random sampling , rather than due to superior transmissibility/fitness; the fast expansion of these ( possibly ) suboptimal virus strains may have considerably delayed the spread of more transmissible HIV variants; however , the future evolution of the pandemic is likely to be characterized by a slow expansion of viral strains with increased transmission potential .
How muscle is organized impacts its function . However , understanding how muscle organizes is challenging , as the process occurs over several length scales . We approach this multiscale coupling problem by constraining the overall shapes of muscle cells to indirectly control the organization of their intracellular space . We hypothesized the cellular boundary conditions direct the organization of cytoskeletal scaffolds . We developed a model of how the cytoskeleton of cardiomyocytes organizes with respect to boundary cues . Our computational and experimental results to control myocyte shape indicated that distinct muscle architectures arise from two main organizational mechanisms: the interaction between actin fibers , premyofibrils and focal adhesions , as well as cooperative alignment and parallel bundling of more mature myofibrils . We show that a hierarchy of processes regulate the self-organization of cardiomyocytes . Our results suggest that a symmetry break , due to the boundary conditions imposed on the cell , is responsible for polarization of the contractile cytoskeletal organization .
Wolbachia are maternally inherited bacterial endosymbionts that induce cytoplasmic incompatibility in mosquitoes , and use this pattern of sterility to facilitate their spread into naïve , uninfected host populations . These bacteria were recently introduced into Aedes aegypti , a species naturally free of Wolbachia , and the primary vector of dengue virus . Wolbachia are currently being used as a biological tool to control dengue transmission in many countries , including Brazil . We performed a series of laboratory and field assays and then created mathematical models in order to understand the invasive ability of the wMel Wolbachia strain in Brazilian Ae . aegypti mosquito populations . We show that wMel infection had no detrimental fitness effects on its new Brazilian host , and would theoretically be able to successfully invade the mosquito populations in the five distinct urban landscapes that we studied . We found that Wolbachia spread more easily where the local mosquito population was smaller . The size of the local human population did not overtly influence the likelihood of spread . These findings provide insight into how the nature of different urban landscapes will affect the likelihood of Wolbachia spreading effectively , which will greatly assist future releases of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes in Brazil as part of the Eliminate Dengue Program .
Genomic DNA is associated with histone proteins to form the basic structure of chromatin . Lysine residues within the N-terminal end of histones H3 and H4 can be methylated , which may have a positive or a negative effect on the activity of associated DNA or genes , depending on the position of the lysines in the histones . Histone lysine methylation can be reversed by histone demethylases . However , it is not very clear how the specificity of histone demethylases to different histone lysines is determined . In this work we have identified a rice histone demethylase , namely JMJ703 , which specifically demethylates methylated histone H3 lysine 4 . We found that loss of the enzyme reduces cell division rate of the stem and the size of plant stature , indicating the importance of the protein in plant growth . The crystal structure of the catalytic domain of the protein shares a general similarity with that of mammalian and yeast proteins that demethylate methylated histone H3 lysine 9 and lysine 36 , but displays several distinct structural features that are important for substrate and cofactor binding and enzymatic activity of the protein . We found that key amino acids involved in the specific structures are conserved within known H3 lysine 4 demethylases , which may be involved in the specificity to histone H3 lysine 4 .
The early steps of HIV-1 infection are poorly understood , in part because of the difficulty in obtaining high-resolution information on encapsidated virus and its interaction with host cofactors . This , in turn , has made it difficult to design effective anti-capsid ( CA ) drugs . In our present study , we have used stabilized hexamers of HIV-1 CA to obtain complexed crystal structures with two cellular cofactors that are important for HIV-1 infection . These structures and accompanying virology reveal an essential interface in the capsid of HIV-1 that is lost upon viral uncoating . This interface is used to recruit both the nuclear targeting cofactor CPSF6 and NUP153 , a nuclear pore component that facilitates nuclear entry . The high-resolution information provided by these structures reveals that the interface is degenerate and CA mutations can be made that selectively perturb sensitivity to each cofactor . This interface is also competed by two antiviral drugs , PF74 and BI-2 , whose different mechanisms of action are not fully understood . We show that PF74 , but not BI-2 , binds across monomers within multimerized capsid affecting an inter-hexamer interface that is crucial for maintaining intact virions and that the addition of saturating concentrations of PF74 causes an irreversible block to viral reverse transcription .
Mosquitoes are important for transmission of human diseases including dengue and yellow fever . The sequencing of the genomes of key mosquito species including Aedes aegypti has helped us to understand the factors that allow mosquitoes to vector disease . While the genome for Ae . aegypti has been sequenced , it is in many pieces which have not yet been arranged on chromosomes . To this end , we have created a genetic linkage map and measured the distance between genetic markers , which allows us to assign them to regions of the genome . Using this method , we also detected errors in the current genome sequences . We used our genetic map to find regions of the mosquito genome associated with the development of Brugia malayi , a nematode that causes lymphatic filariasis in humans . A better genome assembly will be important for the development of novel methods for controlling disease transmission .
Dengue vector surveillance programs regularly use household surveys for searching breeding sites that are positive for Ae . aegypti larvae . Infestation indices are calculated as the percentage of positive houses , or percentage of positive containers , and are used to guide control actions and to issue alerts . However , these indices are costly and prone to error due to variation in searching effort and the sometimes cryptic nature of the mosquito egg laying behavior . In the recent years , many devices for trapping mosquitoes were developed . One problem when deciding which trap to choose for surveillance is the lack of a gold standard to compare trap-based indices with . In this scenario , choice relies on the behavior of the trap indices , that is , how well they inform about mosquito population growth , decline , or spread . Our study compared infestation indices produced by four different trap schemes as well the immature survey . We observed that any trap is more sensitive in detecting the mosquito presence than the immature survey , and they are better in capturing the temporal variation in mosquito abundance as well . However , traps are very different in terms of cost , ease-of-use and sensitivity and trap choice should further consider these factors .
APOBEC3G is a human protein that inhibits the replication of HIV-1 in CD4+ T cells . It gains entry to the virus particles that are released from infected cells and subsequently interferes with viral genome replication , which in the case of HIV-1 is reverse transcription . APOBEC3G is a cytidine deaminase , and it catalyses the deamination of cytidines to uridines in viral single-stranded DNA replication intermediates , resulting in the generation of defective progeny viruses . In addition , APOBEC3G can inhibit reverse transcription by a poorly characterized deamination-independent mechanism . HIV-1 has evolved the viral Vif protein to counteract the antiviral properties of APOBEC3G . Vif associates with APOBEC3G and targets it for proteasomal degradation , such that intracellular levels of APOBEC3G are reduced and packaging into virions is averted . Based on the structure of a human homolog of APOBEC3G , APOBEC2 , we performed a mutational analysis of amino acids that have the potential to mediate the assembly of APOBEC3G into multi-component complexes . We report that these amino acids affect the association of APOBEC3G with itself and cellular RNA , and that the same attributes are also required for packaging into virions and antiviral function . Thus , the processes of APOBEC3G self-association , RNA binding , and virion packaging are functionally linked and essential for virus inhibition .
Genes responsible for quantitative variation have been identified for a diverse range of phenotypes . However , much remains to be learned about the distribution of causative genetic variation within a locus . In this study , we investigated a locus that contributes to natural variation in abdominal pigmentation in Drosophila melanogaster . We found that the large phenotypic effect of this locus results from the cumulative action of many small-effect polymorphisms that are concentrated in three distinct functional regions: a promoter , a tissue-specific enhancer , and a Polycomb response element ( a region involved in chromatin remodeling ) . The same regions influence the adult phenotype and transcript abundance , indicating that the causative sequence variants act by modulating transcription . Interestingly , these polymorphisms cluster near , but not within , the functionally validated regulatory regions , suggesting that DNA sequences surrounding core functional elements may play a key role in quantitative variation .
The bacterial pathogen , Streptococcus pneumoniae , is a highly adaptable organism that has managed to survive in the face of significant selective pressure from antibiotics and vaccines due to frequent uptake of new gene sequences . DNA is acquired from the environment by S . pneumoniae during the competence state when regulatory pathways are triggered that result in the production of proteins required for DNA uptake and integration . In this study , we demonstrate that the secretion of small antimicrobial peptides called bacteriocins is induced during competence . These bacteriocins , which are quite diverse in pneumococcal populations , target neighboring organisms for lysis . The coordinated production of the peptides during competence may allow pneumococcal strains that produce a greater repertoire of bacteriocins a selective advantage by increasing the potential pool of DNA donors .
Picornaviruses are positive-sense RNA viruses that cause diseases ranging from the common cold to poliomyelitis . Poliovirus is one of the most extensively studied members of the Picornaviridae family . However , a complete understanding of the mechanism by which the viral RNA genome directs the synthesis of its protein products is lacking . Poliovirus usurps the host cell translation machinery to initiate viral polyprotein synthesis via a mechanism distinct from the cellular cap-binding , ribosome scanning model of translation . This allows the virus to down-regulate host cell translation while providing an advantage for its own gene expression . Owing to its small genome size , poliovirus utilizes host cell proteins to facilitate the recruitment of the translation machinery , a process that is still not completely defined . Previous work highlighted the importance of two particular host cell RNA binding proteins in poliovirus translation . Here we employ imaging techniques , fractionation assays , and RNA binding experiments to further examine the specific role these proteins play in poliovirus translation . We also generated a truncated version of one of the proteins and observed a dramatic effect on virus growth , highlighting its significance during poliovirus infection and supporting our model for bridging the cellular translation apparatus to viral RNA .
Genome-wide mutagenesis screens provide a valuable tool to identify genes and genetic pathways regulating complex developmental processes . The neural crest is a population of multipotent cells that gives rise to many different tissue and organ systems . Alterations in the pathways coordinating neural crest formation lead to human developmental disorders . To identify genetic components involved in neural crest development , we combined a whole-genome chemical mutagenesis approach with a mouse strain , Sox10LacZ/+ , that marks neural crest progenitors during early embryogenesis . We identified and determined the chromosomal location of four mutant lines that display impaired neural crest patterning . One of the mutant lines identified carries a single amino acid change that is sufficient to alter neural crest development and cause embryonic lethality without impeding upon protein expression , highlighting the importance of the mutated residue for gene function . This study demonstrates the feasibility of mutagenesis screens to identify the molecular players required for neural crest development as well as to dissect protein domain functions .
Human schistosomiasis is a chronic parasitic disease affecting around 200 million people worldwide . Infection occurs when cercariae penetrate the skin during water contact . Although there is effective treatment for schistosomiasis , individuals remain susceptible to reinfection after treatment; some individuals , however , appear more susceptible to reinfection than others . The highly heterogeneous nature of human water contact behaviour makes it difficult to identify whether low levels of reinfection are caused by immunity or a simple lack of cercarial exposure; this complicates the characterisation of risk factors for infection and immune correlates of protection . Here , we take a multidisciplinary approach using individual estimates of cercarial exposure and multivariable analysis to allow for environmental and behavioural heterogeneities . We examine the influence of demographic factors and antibody responses on susceptibility to reinfection . While observed ethnic- and sex-related variations in Schistosoma mansoni reinfection could be explained by differences in exposure , age-related differences appeared linked to the balance of specific IgE and IgG4 antibodies , themselves related to resistance to reinfection . Our study highlights the benefits of a multidisciplinary approach in complex field settings: it improves our understanding of a population's ecology and therefore the biology of disease .
Clonorchiasis is a major neglected disease in East Asia . Worm data in infected humans are very limited , and only egg counts roughly estimate infection burden of the worms . In endemic areas , we recruited infected cases and tried to collect the adult worms from them . They were treated with 3 doses of praziquantel , and purged next day under fasting . Adult worms of C . sinensis were recovered from their diarrheal feces . The worms discharged from humans after treatment are minimum confirmed numbers . The worm recovery rate noticeably increased in subjects with higher egg counts . The number of collected worms was well-correlated with the egg counts . Worm collection by praziquantel medication and purgation is a safe non-invasive method to get worm information from human . The present study confirms that at least 110 worms are infected in a human body with egg counts per gram of feces around 3 , 000 , and egg productivity of a worm per day is around 4 , 000 .
Life threatening infections are an increasing reality . Multi-drug resistant bacteria e . g . MRSA are present in nearly all hospitals , and community acquired TB is often recalcitrant to treatment . Less well known , but causing four to five times more deaths in the UK than MRSA , are fungi in the genus Candida . These are commonly associated with mucosal infections such as “thrush” , but are responsible for > 400 , 000 life-threatening infections worldwide every year , especially in the immunosuppressed patient population . One of the principle pathogens is Candida glabrata . This fungus grows as a single celled yeast , and alarmingly is highly resistant to both host innate defences and many clinically used antifungal drugs . Even with the best possible medical care , infections with this yeast cause ~50% mortality and alarmingly the incidence of C . glabrata infections is steadily climbing . This demands that novel antifungal therapies are developed that can target drug resistant fungal infections such as C . glabrata . We have identified genes that prevent the growth of fungal cells that express gain-of-function mutations in Pdr1 , a key mediator of antifungal resistance in C . glabrata . We also provide proof of concept that targeting a protein essential for Pdr1 function significantly inhibits the emergence of antifungal drug resistance . Thus such an approach could provide a powerful tool in developing treatments for drug resistant infections .
All positive-strand RNA viruses replicate their genomes in association with host cell membranes . PV does not just remodel existing membranes , but induces membranes with unique structure and lipid composition . There has been some suggestion that the functions of the PV-induced structures observed during infection may not be those that perform genome replication . This study uses kinetic analysis and kinetic traps of virus-induced membrane formation/transformation and PI4P induction by WT PV and two PV mutants to provide evidence for the existence of a virus-induced genome-replication organelle temporally and spatially distinct from a virus-assembly organelle . In addition , our studies suggest that formation of both organelles may require participation of viral proteins , 3AB and/or 3CD . Therefore , this study provides a new perspective on the cell biology of PV infection and should inspire a fresh look at picornavirus-induced organelles , their functions and the role of P3 proteins in their formation and interconversion .
Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) is a parasitic infection that kills millions of mostly poverty-stricken people in Latin America . In recent years it has also spread to nonendemic countries – the United States , Canada , Europe , Australia and Japan – as a result of immigration . The only available drugs for its treatment were introduced more than forty years ago , have low efficacy , and cause various severe side effects . This dire public health situation has prompted us to search for new small molecules to act as drug candidates to treat Chagas disease . The T . cruzi enzyme cruzain , a key biological catalyst used by the protozoan to digest host proteins , is a validated drug target for Chagas disease . By combining in silico molecular design , X-ray crystallography and biological screening , we found a new class of non-covalent small molecules that inhibit cruzain in low micromolar concentrations .
DNA and other nucleic acid vaccine technologies are advancing quickly , and new potent delivery methods are demonstrating great potential in human clinical trials . In this manuscript , we report a highly protective DNA vaccine against the yellow fever virus . This vaccine was engineered with a molecular adjuvant technology to enhance the exposure of the vaccine antigens to the immune system , resulting in augmented CD4+ helper responses . We postulate that the robust CD4+ responses help the B cells and the CD8+ cells mature more efficiently and produce better antibodies and cytotoxic cells , respectively . Our results show that vaccination with this yellow fever DNA formulation elicited protective levels of neutralizing antibodies and very strong cellular responses at similar levels to the responses elicited by the live attenuated 17DD vaccine . In addition , these results also suggest a very important role for cellular responses in mediating protection against yellow fever virus . The results reported here are very promising and further studies may lead to a new yellow fever vaccine for human use .
The cholera pathogen Vibrio cholerae is a natural resident of the aquatic environment and causes disease when ingested in the form of contaminated food or drinking water . In the aquatic environment , the shells of marine zooplankton , which are primarily composed of chitin , serve as an important food source for this pathogen . The genes required for the utilization of chitin are tightly regulated in V . cholerae , however , the exact mechanism underlying this regulation is currently unclear . Here , we uncover that a protein involved in regulating cell division is also important for regulating the genes involved in chitin utilization . This is a newly identified property for this cell division protein and the significance of a common regulator for these two disparate activities remains to be understood .
Constructing and validating dynamic models of biological systems spanning biomolecular networks to ecological systems is a challenging problem . Here we present a scalable computational framework to rapidly infer parameters in complex dynamic models of biological systems from large-scale experimental data . The framework was applied to infer parameters of a synthetic microbial community model from large-scale time series data . We also demonstrate that this framework can be used to analyze parameter uncertainty , to diagnose whether the experimental data are sufficient to uniquely determine the parameters , to determine the model that best describes the data , and to infer parameters in the face of data outliers .
The nCounter , a high throughput digital molecular detection and quantitation system , was used to define the inflammatory response of SW mice to WNV infection following intraperitoneal injection in multiple tissues over a 9 day course of viral infection . Data analysis identified expression profiles common and unique to major tissues . Complementary protein suspension array analysis of a subset of genes demonstrated the expression kinetics of RNA and protein expression compared to infectious virus production . Data stratification of WNV ( + ) versus WNV ( − ) tissues allowed differentiation of the systemic inflammatory gene response versus tissue-specific responses due to infection with WNV over time . The results generated from this study will allow for further hypothesis generation and testing .
Rabies is a deadly neglected virus that causes an estimated 59 , 000 deaths each year worldwide . In 2014 , an outbreak of human rabies in adjacent Maputo and Matola cities prompted us to investigate the epidemiology and risk factors of human rabies and animal bites in the two cities . We reviewed cases of human rabies and animal bites through both health facility and community investigations and carried out a case control study in affected neighborhoods . We found a total of 14 unreported human rabies cases in a four month period , and 819 cases of animal bites in a three month retrospective review of records . Dogs were responsible for all rabid bites and for 97 . 8% of animal bites . None of the rabid dogs had been vaccinated . Factors significantly associated with human rabies were: age <15 years , bite by a stray dog , deep wound , bite in the head , bite by an unimmunized dog , failure to use soap and water to cleanse the wound , and to vaccinate after the bite . We concluded that the poor implementation of control measures for rabies had led to the outbreak and recommended strengthening implementation , particularly in rapidly urbanizing areas .
Febrile seizures are the most common seizure disorder of early childhood , and exhibit a prevalence of 2%–5% in European and North American children . While the genetic basis of febrile seizures is well-documented , efforts to uncover these genes have yielded only a few genes in a small proportion of cases . In a genomic region on human chromosome 2 known to harbor the febrile seizure SCN1A sodium channel gene , we now report a disease-causing mutation in the adjacent gene , SCN9A ( Nav1 . 7 ) , in a large family with febrile seizures . We introduced the family mutation ( N641Y ) into the orthologous mouse gene to create a knockin mouse model , and tested seizure susceptibility in these mice . Compared to wild-type mice , our Scn9a knockin mice have a significantly lower threshold to electrically induced seizures and experience seizures at a significantly faster rate with repeated subthreshold stimulation . We also report novel missense SCN9A mutations in unrelated febrile seizure patients . Furthermore , we show that a subset of patients with the catastrophic early-onset Dravet syndrome who commonly have mutations in SCN1A also harbor mutations in SCN9A . This finding is important as it demonstrates for the first time mutational evidence for a modifying digenic mechanism of human epilepsy . For infants with Dravet syndrome , a genetic diagnosis will be of immediate benefit to guide therapeutics away from the sodium channel blocking class of anticonvulsant drugs that exacerbate seizures but are often the first administered .
How do genes control the growth of cells into complex tissue shapes such as flowers , wings or hearts ? A key requirement is that genes must be able to modulate growth along particular directions . Two mechanisms have been proposed for how this may work; one based on the directions of mechanical stresses in the tissue and the other on molecular signals that propagate and provide local polarities . Here we show how a polarity-based system has the advantage of being able to act in combination with growth rates to generate a wide range of shapes . By applying this system to the development of the Snapdragon flower , we show , by comparison of computational simulations with actual flower development , how a simple set of polarity controls may underlie the formation of complex biological structures .
Within-host evolution of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is shaped by strong immune responses mounted against the virus . Multiple CD8+ T cell populations , each recognizing a specific part of an HIV protein , simultaneously suppress HIV growth . Escape mutations that arise in HIV genome regions coding for these virion protein parts , impair CD8+ T cell recognition and are consequently strongly selected . The emergence and rise of these escape mutations exhibits an intriguing temporal pattern: the earlier an escape mutation arises , the faster it goes to fixation . This pattern is termed escape rate decrease ( ERD ) . In this paper , we tested computationally whether interference , i . e . the coexistence of multiple genetically distinct HIV strains engaged in competitive interaction within the host , could be a possible source of ERD . As an alternative , we also mathematically derived the temporal pattern of escapes under interference-free conditions , and compared this with data . We found that interference between multiple beneficial mutations could generate ERD . However , ERD does not imply the presence of interference . Thus , more detailed data is required to unambiguously determine whether interference effects influence ERD generation . Nevertheless , interference should be considered when studying the within-host evolution of HIV . Ignoring its effects on population dynamics can severely underestimate the protective capacity of CD8+ T cells .
Less than 14% of medically treated patients with locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer are expected to be alive 5 years after diagnosis . Standard therapeutic strategies include the administration of two drugs in combination , aiming at shrinking the tumor before surgery and improving overall survival . Knowing the sensitivity profile of each patient to different treatment strategies at diagnosis may help choose the most appropriate ones . We develop a methodology for the quantitative estimation of the cytotoxic efficacy of cisplatin-based doublets on cancer cells by applying a simulation model of cancer progression and response . The model incorporates the proliferation cycle , quiescence , differentiation and loss of tumor cells . We evaluate the effect of in vivo microenvironment of real tumors , as expressed by measurable tumor proliferation kinetics , such as how fast the tumor grows , the percentage of cells that are actively dividing , the resistance of stem cells , etc . on treatment outcome so as to derive more accurate estimates . A literature survey guides the selection of values . The methodology is applied to a real clinical dataset of patients . Correlation studies between the derived cytotoxicities and the patients’ molecular profile could lead to predictions of treatment response at the time of diagnosis .
Biofilm surface-attached communities have the capacity to tolerate high concentrations of antibiotics , and bacterial biofilms formed on indwelling medical devices are difficult to eradicate and often lead to the onset of chronic or systemic infections . The physiological heterogeneity of multicellular biofilms has been associated with development of subpopulations highly tolerant to multiple antibiotics . Here we demonstrate that , upon starvation for specific essential growth nutrients , biofilm bacteria become highly tolerant to fluoroquinolone ofloxacin . The SOS response plays a critical role in this phenomenon , while the stringent response plays only a minor role . Taken together , these results support the hypothesis that bacteria localized within nutrient-limited niches of the biofilm structure may temporarily enter a physiological state enabling them to tolerate bactericidal concentrations of antibiotics .
The blood stage of malaria parasites is responsible for all the morbidity and mortality associated with malaria . During the blood stage , malaria parasites invade and multiply within host erythrocytes . The process of erythrocyte invasion requires specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands . Many of the key parasite proteins that bind host receptors are localized in apical organelles called micronemes . Here , we demonstrate that cAMP serves as a key regulator that controls the timely secretion of microneme proteins during invasion . We show that exposure of merozoites to a low K+ environment , as found in blood plasma , leads to a rise in cytosolic cAMP levels due to activation of the cytoplasmic , bicarbonate-sensitive adenylyl cyclase β ( PfACβ ) . A rise in cAMP activates protein kinase A ( PKA ) , which regulates microneme secretion . In addition , cAMP triggers a rise in cytosolic Ca2+ levels through the Epac pathway . Increases in both cAMP and Ca2+ levels are essential for triggering microneme secretion . Identification of the different elements in the cAMP-dependent signaling pathways that regulate microneme secretion during invasion provides novel targets to block erythrocyte invasion , inhibit blood stage parasite growth and prevent malaria .
The soil-transmitted threadworm Strongyloides stercoralis is one of the most neglected helminth infections . It is endemic world-wide , yet more prevalent in hot and humid climates as well as resource poor countries with inadequate sanitary conditions . The difficult diagnosis and irregular excretion of larvae lead to an underreporting of infection rates . We reviewed the literature of the last 20 years reporting on infection rates of S . stercoralis . Including the sensitivity of diagnostic methods applied , we modeled and mapped for the first time country-wide prevalence estimates . The modeling was divided into studies reporting infection rates in the general population , in hospitals and on refugees & immigrants , respectively . We further summarized possible risk factors for S . stercoralis infection using meta-analysis . The most prominent risk factors include HIV-infection , HTLV-1 infection and alcoholism . Information on infection rates is missing in many countries . Our results show high prevalence estimates in many resource poor tropical and subtropical countries . We conclude that S . stercoralis should not be neglected and that further studies applying high sensitivity diagnostic methods are needed .
As most organisms exist in an environment that changes predictably with a 24-hour period , highly optimized genetic circuits turn on and off the production of key regulatory proteins to anticipate the day/night cycle . In humans , the demands of a modern society have required that we deviate from this evolutionarily prescribed sleep and feeding schedule , resulting in increased long-term risks of metabolic disease . There is therefore a desire to find pharmacological treatments that would restore the normal functioning of our circadian clock despite irregular behavioral schedules . One aspect of these treatments that is often overlooked in searching for candidate drugs is how these treatments might affect the accuracy of the circadian timing system . Recording the time of each cell is possible but difficult; as a result single-cell approaches cannot be scaled up to high-throughput searches . In this paper , we show that it is possible to estimate how much the noise of a system has changed by looking only at the averaged protein production of an entire population of cells . Such an approach allows us to analyze prior data from high-throughput screens , and show that the natural clock has been highly optimized to be both accurate and high amplitude .
The rise of antibiotic resistance in microbes that cause dangerous diseases necessitates the development of new drugs with novel mechanisms of antimicrobial activity . The recently identified small molecule PC190723 is a promising therapeutic candidate , as it is the only drug known to directly inhibit FtsZ , a cytoskeletal protein that is critical for bacterial cell division . However , little is known about the effects of PC190723 in bacterial species other than the pathogen Staphylococcus aureus . Here , we evaluate the PC190723 binding site with currently available crystallographic structures of FtsZ using the structural comparison algorithm PocketFEATURE and all-atom molecular dynamics simulations . Our investigations provide insight into the mechanism of PC190723-based inhibition of FtsZ and its potential use as an inhibitor of as-yet untested bacterial species . We also demonstrate the utility of computational analysis of the drug-binding pockets of related proteins , which we expect to accelerate the screening and development of novel antibiotics to combat human disease .
Retroviruses crucially rely on insertion of their genomes into a host cell chromosome , and this process is carried out by the viral enzyme integrase . HIV and other lentiviruses also depend on LEDGF , a cellular chromatin-associated protein , which binds their integrase proteins and tethers them to a human chromosome . The interaction between integrase and LEDGF can potentially be exploited for directing integration of lentiviral vectors in gene therapy applications , as well as for development of antiretroviral drugs . Herein , we present a three-dimensional structure of a protein–protein complex containing a fragment of HIV integrase and the integrase-binding domain of LEDGF . Our structure elucidates the hitherto unknown LEDGF–integrase interface involving the amino terminal portion of the viral enzyme . Using a range of complementary approaches , we further show that these novel protein–protein contacts are essential for the function of LEDGF in HIV integration . The novel structural details will be very useful for the development of HIV inhibitors that target the integrase–LEDGF interaction . Furthermore , they enabled us to design a mutant of HIV integrase that depends on a reverse-engineered mutant of LEDGF , providing an inroad to the design of LEDGF-based lentiviral vector targeting strategies .
We present an in silico computational model of tumor growth and evolution according to the cancer stem cell hypothesis . Inheritable traits of cells may be genetically or epigenetically altered , and traits that confer increased fitness to the cell will be selected for on the population level . Phenotypic evolution yields aggressive tumors with large heterogeneity , prompting the notion that the cancer stem cell population per se is highly heterogeneous . Within aggressive tumors cancer stem cells with low tumorigenic potential may be isolated . Simulations of our model suggest that the cells harvested in core needle biopsies represent less than 10% of the phenotypic heterogeneity of the total tumor population . Dependent on the cells captured in the sample , xenografted tumors may exhibit aggressive growth or long-term dormancy—dynamics that may suggest opposing treatment approaches for the same tumor when translated into clinical decision-making .
Emerging infections are a continuing global public health issue , the most recent example being last year's ‘Swine flu’ influenza pandemic . However , for many zoonotic pathogens , some adaptation is required to cross the species barrier from an animal reservoir into humans and cause sustained transmission . Previous work has explored the relationship between the evolutionary biology of an adapting pathogen , and the epidemiology of cases that may arise before such a pathogen becomes pandemic-capable . Here , we extend this work to incorporate what is often an important host ecological feature , the spatial distribution of the host population . Many zoonoses occur away from large population centres . For example , HIV is thought to have entered the human population through bushmeat hunters in the sparsely populated jungles of Central Africa . We ask: when a pathogen is evolving to adapt for human transmission , under what circumstances does the spatial structure underlying the human population become important ? We approach this question using mathematical models to explore regimes of connectedness between communities . Our results suggest that most communities are sufficiently interconnected to show no effect on the emergence process . We finish by discussing the implications of these findings for public health .
Despite continuous virological surveillance ( 1976–2009 ) in wild waterfowl ( Anseriformes ) and shorebirds ( Charadriiformes ) , the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of avian influenza A virus ( AIV ) in these hosts is poorly understood . Comparative genomic analysis of AIV data revealed that the high prevalence of Charadriiformes infected in Delaware Bay is a reservoir of AIV that is phylogenetically distinct from AIV sampled from most North American Anseriformes . In contrast , influenza viruses sampled from Anseriformes in Alberta are representative of the remaining AIV diversity sampled across North America . While AIV may be restricted to specific migratory flyways over short time frames , our large-scale analysis showed that this population genetic structure was transient and the long-term persistence of AIV was independent of bird flyways . These results suggest an introduced virus lineage may initially be restricted to one flyway , but migration to a major congregation site such as Alberta could occur followed by subsequent spread across flyways . These generalized predictions for virus movement will be critical to assess the associated risk for widespread diffusion and inform surveillance for pandemic preparedness .
Neutralizing antibodies play a critical role in protection from influenza A virus infection . Most neutralizing antibodies recognize hemagglutinin ( HA ) , which is the major surface glycoprotein of influenza viruses . The HA has been classified into sixteen antigenically distinct subtypes . Since HA subtypes of influenza A viruses are principally defined as serotypes determined by neutralization or hemagglutination inhibition tests using polyclonal antisera to the respective HA subtypes , which have little cross-reactivity to the other HA subtypes , it is generally believed that the neutralizing antibodies are not broadly cross-reactive among HA subtypes . Herein we present a novel cross-neutralizing monoclonal antibody that reacts with a variety of HA subtypes in vitro and provides heterosubtypic protection against influenza A virus infections in mice . We demonstrate that this antibody recognizes a common epitope adjacent to the receptor binding region of HA and inhibits virus binding to the cells . The present study supports the notion that cross-reactive antibodies , as well as cytotoxic T lymphocytes , play some roles in heterosubtypic immunity against influenza A virus infection , and underscores the potential therapeutic utility of cross-reactive monoclonal antibodies for multivalent prophylaxis and treatment against infection with influenza A viruses , including the hypothetical new pandemic influenza viruses .
Infection with the worm Strongyloides stercoralis is common throughout the developing world , and in some resource poor communities living within developed societies , such as the Aboriginal communities of northern Australia . It is generally agreed that reliable diagnosis of this infection is possible by blood tests , and that the medication ivermectin represents the best available treatment , however questions remain over how to best control and eliminate the infection in areas where it is common . Strongyloides infections may be asymptomatic , and may persist indefinitely without the need for re-infection . The worm is transmitted by contact with contaminated soil . Suggested strategies for control have therefore included mass administration of ivermectin in affected areas , and environmental measures to prevent the contamination of soil . In this study we follow up a group of subjects living in an endemic community three years after they were tested and treated for strongyloides infection . We find a persisting low prevalence of infection in this group in the absence of any environmental changes or further treatment , suggesting that control of the infection in this community might be achieved through simple case finding and treatment alone . In addition , we suggest the use of a lower cut-off value for serological testing in these communities , in order to avoid missing cases of infection .
This is the first example of prion strains that replicate independently in vitro and in vivo . This observation changes the paradigm of the interactions of prion strains and provides further evidence that strains are a dynamic mixture of substrains . Strain interference is influenced by the abundance of PrPC that is convertible by the strains involved . These observations have implications for interspecies transmission and emergence of prion strains from a mixture .
Allosteric effect is an important regulation mechanism in biological processes , where the binding of a ligand at one site of a protein influences the function of a distant site . Conventionally , allostery was thought to originate from structural transition . However , in recent years , intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) were found to be widely involved in allosteric regulation in despite of their lack of ordered structure under physiological condition . It is still a mystery why IDPs are prevalent in allosteric proteins and how they differ from ordered proteins in allostery . Here , we propose a comprehensive ensemble model which includes both ordered and disordered states of a two-domain protein , and investigate the role of various state combinations in allosteric effect . By sampling the parameter space , we conclude that disordered proteins are less competitive than ordered proteins in performing allostery from a thermodynamic point of view . The prevalence of IDPs in allosteric regulation is likely determined by all their advantage , but not only by their capacity in endowing allostery .
Prostate cancer is a major cause of male death in the Western world , but few genes involved in this disease have been identified . We have undertaken an in-depth in vivo analysis in the prostate of the β-Catenin protein , which has been shown to be important in many processes during embryogenesis and has been implicated in tumorigenesis . Our studies demonstrate that β-Catenin is essential for prostate development but is dispensable in the normal adult organ . Analysis of a mouse model of a frequently mutated human prostate tumour suppressor , Pten loss , revealed that β-Catenin is not required for neoplastic formation in this model , even in castrated conditions . However , increased β-Catenin levels can cooperate with Pten loss to promote the progression of aggressive invasive prostate cancer together with squamous metaplasia . These data uncover the role of β-Catenin in the prostate and provide new insights on how pathways interact to drive human prostate cancer .
Informed consent to biomedical research in developing countries is a highly topical issue . When consent forms and processes are simply borrowed from developed countries , obtaining genuine informed consent becomes extremely challenging . This paper examines how a quick and relatively simple intervention ( Rapid Assessment ) can influence the design and implementation of informed consent processes in the context of biomedical research involving poor , socially stigmatized and illiterate communities in a developing country . The paper goes on to discuss the effect of social , cultural , and economic factors identified by the intervention in a particular context and demonstrates how knowledge of these influences helped to develop a socially relevant and practical consent process prior to conducting a programme of community-based genetic research . The paper concludes that this intervention is an effective and economical means by which to ensure the efficacy and ethical integrity of consent processes when recruiting participants to new research sites , even within countries with which researchers are already acquainted .
We assess the impact of genetics and aging on immune system dynamics by investigating the dynamics of proliferation of T lymphocytes across their differentiation through thymus and spleen in mice . Understanding cell proliferation dynamics requires specific experimental methods and mathematical modelling . Our investigation is based upon single-cell multicolour flow cytometry analysis thereby revealing the active incorporation in DNA of a thymidine analogue during S phase after pulse-chase experiments in vivo , versus cell DNA content . A generic mathematical model that simulates the evolution of single cell behaviour during the experiment allows us to fit our data , to deduce proliferation rates and mean cell cycle phase durations in sub-populations . This reveals that T cell proliferation is constrained by genetic influences , declines with age , and is specific to cell differentiation stage , revealing a specific “signature” of cell proliferation . Our model is simple and flexible and can be used with other pulse/chase experiments .
Mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) encodes for 13 proteins that are subunits of the Oxidative Phosphorylation system . These proteins are synthesized within the mitochondria by its own set of ribosomes . In mammals the rRNAs and all the tRNAs required for the mitoribosomes to work are also encoded by the mtDNA . Surprisingly , half of mtDNA mutations causing diseases occur in tRNA genes while they represent only 10% of the total sequence . Moreover , these pathological tRNA mutations can occur in homoplasmic form ( all the copies of the mtDNA are mutant ) . It is puzzling that , with these homoplasmic mutations , some individuals suffer a severe disease while others are healthy . Recently we have described that common variants of mtDNA in mouse induce differences in the performance of the Oxidative Phosphorylation capacity but that the cell is capable to sense these differences and adapt the biogenesis of the OXPHOS system to compensate for them . We also showed that this mechanism was triggered by differences in the basal level of ROS . It was considered that this adaptation mechanism was of no relevance in pathological mutations . The implication of the ROS-mediated mitochondrial biogenesis in modulating the consequences of mild pathogenic mutations and its significance for disease penetrance and mitochondrial tRNA evolution are underscored .
Many organisms have a single X chromosome in males and two in females , leading to a chromosome imbalance between autosomes and sex chromosomes and between the sexes . In mammals , this dosage imbalance is adjusted by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes and by silencing one X chromosome in females . We used expression array analyses of human triploid cultures to test X chromosome expression in the presence of three sets of autosomes and address the question of an autosomal counting factor . We found that overall X-linked gene expression is not tripled in the presence of three sets of autosomes . However , in triploid cells with a single active X chromosome , its expression is adjusted upward presumably by an epigenetic mechanism that senses the active X/autosome ratio . Based on the range of individual gene expression we identified a subset of dosage-sensitive genes whose expression is apparently proportional to the ploidy . Our findings are important for understanding the regulation of the X chromosome and the role of ploidy in the balance of gene expression and associated phenotypes .
Since the time of Darwin , biologists have worked to identify instances of evolutionary adaptation . At the molecular scale , it is understood that adaptation should induce more genetic changes at amino acid altering sites in the genome , compared to amino acid–preserving sites . The ratio of substitution rates at such sites , denoted dN/dS , is therefore commonly used to detect proteins undergoing adaptation . This test was originally developed for application to distantly diverged genetic sequences , the differences among which represent substitutions along independent evolutionary lineages . Nonetheless , the dN/dS statistics are also frequently applied to genetic sequences sampled from a single population , the differences among which represent transient polymorphisms , not substitutions . Here , we show that the behavior of the dN/dS statistic is very different in these two cases . In particular , when applied to sequences from a single population , the dN/dS ratio is relatively insensitive to the strength of natural selection , and the anticipated signature of adaptive evolution , dN/dS>1 , is violated . These results have implications for the interpretation of genetic variation sampled from a population . In particular , these results suggest that microbes may experience substantially stronger selective forces than previously thought .
Genetic variation at neutral sites can be reduced through linkage to nearby selected sites . This pattern has been used to show the widespread effects of natural selection at shaping patterns of genetic diversity across genomes from a variety of species . However , it is not entirely clear whether natural selection has an effect on neutral divergence between species . Here we show that putatively neutral divergence between closely related species ( human and chimp ) and between distantly related pairs of species ( humans and mice ) show signatures consistent with having been affected by linkage to selected sites . Further , our theoretical models and simulations show that natural selection indirectly affecting linked neutral sites can generate these patterns . Unless substantially more of the genome is under the direct effects of purifying selection than currently believed , our results argue that natural selection has played an important role in shaping variation in levels of putatively neutral sequence divergence across the genome . Our findings further suggest that divergence-based estimates of neutral mutation rate variation across the genome as well as certain estimators of population history may be confounded by linkage to selected sites .
The CK2 kinase is an ancient enzyme known to be at the heart of self-sustaining circadian clocks in animals , plants , and fungi . Circadian clocks are responsible for daily circadian rhythms in molecular , physiological , and behavioral processes . Their mechanism relies on transcriptional activators and repressors that constitute a feedback loop . The CLOCK ( CLK ) activator is required to initiate the transcription of the period ( per ) and timeless ( tim ) genes in the late day . The PER and TIM repressors accumulate in a delayed manner and translocate to the nucleus to repress their own gene . Degradation of these repressors allows the activator to start a new cycle . In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , CK2-mediated phosphorylation of the PER and TIM repressors targets them for degradation . Here we find that the CLK activator is also regulated by CK2 . In contrast to PER and TIM , CLK is stabilized by CK2α phosphorylation; we also show that PER and TIM are dispensable for this stabilization of CLK . The identification of CK2–CLK protein complexes and the in vitro phosphorylation of CLK by CK2 hint at a direct action of the kinase on the activator . Although transcription factor stabilization is generally expected to be associated with increased activity , genetic analysis indicates that CK2 represses CLK . Hence CK2 phosphorylation seems to be a key signal for the transcriptional activator complex to adopt a proper activation state at a given point of the circadian cycle .
Chagas' disease , a neglected tropical disease caused by Trypanosoma cruzi , is transmitted to vertebrate hosts by hematophagous insects . Cruzipain is a lysosomal cysteine peptidase , which plays an important role in parasite infectivity , intracellular growth and differentiation , and is abundantly expressed on the surface of epimastigotes . Since these forms face the insect vector environment during the life cycle , it is conceivable that cruzipain may participate in the interaction process with the invertebrate host . Here , we showed that adhesion of T . cruzi to the insect midgut cells was inhibited by the blockage of cruzipain function . Cysteine peptidase inhibitors , in a dose-dependent manner , and anti-cruzipain antibodies were able to reduce the binding of epimastigote forms to the Rhodnius prolixus midgut . Similarly , T . cruzi transfectants that overexpress chagasin , the endogenous cruzipain inhibitor , displayed low levels of adhesion . Accordingly , the supplementation of exogenous cruzipain partially restored the adherence of the transfected line . Additionally , the ability of the chagasin overexpressing transfectants to colonize the insect in vivo was drastically reduced , and the levels of cruzipain expression by wild-type parasites were enhanced after in vivo passage in R . prolixus . Collectively , our results strongly suggest that cruzipain is required for successful colonization of R . prolixus by T . cruzi .
Microtubules and microtubule-dependent motor proteins segregate chromosomes during mitosis and also promote cellular organization in nondividing cells . An essential motor protein complex called cytoplasmic dynein powers many aspects of microtubule-dependent transport , but it is currently unclear how dynein is regulated such that it can execute different processes . We have performed a genome-wide screen to isolate genes that are involved in dynein-dependent processes . We determined that 20 of the 49 genes we identified specifically influenced the viability of dynein mutant strains but not the viability of other C . elegans mutants . Many of the proteins that specifically influence dynein localized to subcellular sites where the dynein heavy chain has been reported by others to be found . Additionally , we identified four dynein components that appear to negatively regulate the force-generating dynein heavy chain . The identification and initial characterization of this group of genes represents a route to identify genes that are not themselves essential but do participate in essential processes .
DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are potential threats for chromosome stability , but they are usually repaired by two major pathways , homologous recombination or non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) . DSBs can also be essential during physiological processes , such as the programmed removal of germline sequences that takes place in various eukaryotes , including ciliates , during somatic differentiation . We use the ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia as a unicellular model to study how DNA breakage and DSB repair are coordinated during programmed genome rearrangements . In this organism , assembly of the somatic genome involves the elimination of ∼25% of germline DNA , including the precise excision of thousands of short Internal Eliminated Sequences ( IES ) scattered along germline chromosomes . A domesticated piggyBac transposase , PiggyMac , is required for double-strand DNA cleavage at IES ends and IES excision sites are very precisely repaired by the NHEJ pathway . Here , we report that a specialized Ku heterodimer , specifically expressed during programmed genome rearrangements , is an essential partner of PiggyMac and activates DNA cleavage . We propose that incorporation of DSB repair proteins in a pre-cleavage complex constitutes a safe and efficient way for Paramecium to direct thousands of programmed DSBs to the NHEJ pathway and make sure that somatic chromosomes are assembled correctly .
Neurodegenerative diseases affect an ever-increasing proportion of the population; therefore , there is an urgent need to develop treatments . Prion disorders belong to this group of diseases and although rare and uniquely transmissible , share many features on a sub-cellular level . Central to disease is progressive synaptic impairment that invariably leads to the irreversible loss of neurons . Understanding this process is undoubtedly essential for rational drug discovery . In this study we looked at neurons very early in disease , when prions are barely detectable and there are no clinical symptoms observed . Specifically , we performed a comprehensive analysis of transcriptional changes within a particularly dense area of neurons , the CA1 hippocampus region , from prion-infected and control mice . In this way we were able to enrich our data for molecular changes unique to neurons and minimize those changes characteristic of support cells such as astrocytes and microglia . We detected the activation of a transcriptional program indicative of a protective mechanism within these neurons early in disease . This mechanism diminished as disease progressed and was lost altogether , concurrently with the onset of clinical symptoms . These findings demonstrate the ability of neurons to mount an initial neuroprotective response to prions that could be exploited for therapy development .
Granulomatous inflammation is a common feature of chronic infectious and non-infectious disease . In the parasitic disease visceral leishmaniasis , the formation of granulomas in the liver is a hallmark of effective cellular immunity and host resistance to infection . Conventional experimental models , however , have inherent limitations in their capacity to assess the dynamics of this complex inflammatory response and in their ability to discriminate the local contribution of different immune cells and mediators to the outcome of infection . To overcome these limitations and to provide a future platform for evaluating how novel drugs might be used to improve host resistance , we have developed a computational model of the Leishmania granuloma . Using this model , we show that conventional measures of parasite load potentially mask an underlying heterogeneity in the ability of individual granulomas to control parasite number . In addition , we have used our model to provide novel insights into the relative importance of IL-10 production by different immune cells found within the granuloma microenvironment . Our model thus provides a complementary tool to increase understanding of granulomatous inflammation in this and other important human diseases .
The biochemistry of the cell is daunting in its complexity . In order to understand this complexity , we are often forced to use metaphors or construct analogies to systems that we understand better . One long-standing analogy is to digital computers , with their large networks of interacting components that manage to act in coherent and useful ways . Indeed , we know from both theoretical models and empirical observations that biological entities such as genes can sometimes be described accurately by digital , or logical , expressions—turning on or off in response to regulatory signals . However , far more sophisticated computations can also take place , as has been documented in the responses of genes such as the lac operon or Endo-16 . We analyze chemical kinetic models of transcriptional gene regulation and show that even simple models are capable of nearly arbitrary analog computations , ranging from elementary arithmetic operations to general analytic functions . Understanding the computational capacities of genes , and of biochemical systems more generally , tells us what to look for when studying natural systems and tells us what we can hope to build by biological engineering .
Human infection by different arthropod borne viruses such as Chikungunya , Dengue and Zika causes a continuous and extensive health burden mainly in tropical regions of the world . Most of the CHIKV infections result in only mild symptoms , however more extreme manifestations can occur , occasionally leading to death . Different CHIKV genotypes have been circulating in almost all continent around the globe but so far human outbreaks were reported only for single CHIKV genotypes . In Brazil two CHIKV genotypes arrived in the North and Northeast region: the Asian/Caribbean and African ECSA respectively . Here , through viral genome sequencing , we showed that some samples were coinfected by both Asian/Caribbean and ECSA CHIKV genotypes , indicating that these two genotypes expanded their ranges and currently co-circulate in some areas of Brazil . In summary , such findings call for improved surveillance in order to detect co-circulation of different viral genotypes and further evaluate the impact of co-infection in disease epidemiology .
Acquisition of DNA by horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) significantly increases bacterial genetic variability . Relevant issues are the mechanisms that bacterial cells have evolved to efficiently integrate the newly acquired DNA into the host cell regulatory machinery . In Gram negative cells , the nucleoid associated protein H-NS has been shown to bind AT-rich sequences of HGT DNA and silence unwanted expression of these genes . This has led to consider H-NS as a “genome sentinel . ” Nevertheless , this proposed role must be compatible with its role modulating core genome genes . Weak expression of recently transferred genes must be coordinated with proper expression levels of housekeeping genes . In this paper , we describe a strategy that enteric bacteria have developed to differentially modulate HGT and core genome genes . Two independent lines of experimental evidence suggest that the H-NS system of enteric bacteria may have evolved to discriminate between core genome and HGT DNA . The plasmid R27-encoded H-NS protein selectively modulates HGT genes . This avoids plasmid-encoded H-NS interfering with modulation of core functions . We also show that , for efficient silencing of HGT genes , resident chromosomal H-NS recruits the Hha protein and forms heteromeric complexes with DNA . In contrast , housekeeping genes are modulated by H-NS alone .
The single-celled parasite Leishmania , transmitted by sand flies in more than 88 tropical and sub-tropical countries globally , infects man and other mammals , causing a spectrum of diseases called the leishmaniases . Over 12 million people are currently infected worldwide with 2 million new cases reported each year . The type of leishmaniasis that develops in the mammalian host is dependent on the species of infecting parasite and the immune response to infection ( that can be influenced by host genetic variation ) . Our research is focused on identifying parasite factors that contribute to pathogenicity in the host and understanding how these might differ between parasite species that give rise to the different clinical forms of leishmaniasis . Molecules of this type might lead to new therapeutic tools in the longer term . In this paper , we report a comparative analysis of gene expression profiles in three Leishmania species that give rise to different types of disease , focusing on the intracellular stages that reside in mammalian macrophages . Our results show that there are only a small number of differences between these parasite species , with host genetics playing only a minor role in influencing the parasites' response to their intracellular habitat . These small changes may be significant , however , in determining the clinical outcome of infection .
Amphimeriasis , a fish-borne zoonotic disease caused by the liver fluke Amphimerus spp . , is a highly prevalent parasitic infection affecting an indigenous Amerindian group , the Chachi , living in rural and remote tropical areas along the Río Cayapas and its tributaries in the north-western coastal rainforest of Ecuador . Very little is known about the clinical course and treatment of this disease , and the only method for diagnosing it is the parasitological microscopic detection of eggs from Amphimerus spp . in patients' stool samples . This method lacks sensitivity , and the morphology of the eggs may be confounded with other liver and intestinal flukes . New diagnostic tools that can improve the sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing Amphimerus spp . infection would be desirable . At present , LAMP technology shows all the characteristics required of a real-time assay with simple operation for potential use in the clinical diagnosis of infectious diseases , particularly in the field conditions in developing countries for most neglected tropical diseases . In this study , we developed and successfully evaluated a LAMP assay for detecting Amphimerus sp . in human stool samples . After further validation , our LAMP assay ( LAMPhimerus ) could be readily adapted for effective field diagnosis and disease surveillance in amphimeriasis-endemic areas .
SNARE proteins are critical executors of most vesicle fusion events in eukaryotic cells . 4 SNARE domains assemble into a bundle to promote fusion . We have previously shown that Syntaxin 17 , Snap29 ( contributing 2 SNARE domains ) and Vamp7 form the SNARE complex executing autophagosome-lysosome fusion in Drosophila . Surprisingly , one more SNARE protein ( Ykt6 ) is also required in vivo for autophagosome-lysosome fusion . We find that Ykt6 can form a less stable complex with Syntaxin 17 and Snap29 than Vamp7 , because Vamp7 outcompetes Ykt6 . Ykt6 , Vamp7 and Syntaxin 17 all bind to the tethering complex HOPS to promote vesicle fusion . Ykt6 likely plays a non-canonical role in autophagosome-lysosome fusion , because its mutant form ( which is thought to be unable to assemble into a fusion-competent SNARE complex ) still rescues the fusion defect of ykt6 mutant cells , and it restores viability in mutant animals .
The opportunistic pathogen Haemophilus influenzae is a normal inhabitant of the human nasopharynx , and is commonly implicated in respiratory tract infections , particularly of the middle ear ( otitis media ) , sinuses , and lung ( pneumonia , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis ) . We have identified a multifunctional bacterial uptake system that is required for critical mechanisms of bacterial survival in the host . This Sap transporter system recognizes and transports host immune defense molecules and is involved in uptake of an iron-containing nutrient ( heme ) that is host-limited , yet required for bacterial growth and survival . We propose that bacteria utilize this , and likely other similar transport systems , for numerous functions that are important for bacterial survival in the host , including host immune evasion and metabolism . Our findings significantly advance our understanding of how single bacterial protein systems co-operate and coordinate multiple functions to equip bacteria to survive and cause disease in the hostile host environment . Our long-range goal is to block this uptake system thereby starving the bacterium of essential nutrients and also promoting clearance by the host immune response . Removal of this important bacterial survival mechanism will thwart the ability for Haemophilus to survive as a pathogen and thus decrease the incidence of disease development .
Very few proteins are actively degraded in bacteria , and those that are tend to be regulatory molecules . One example is MarA , which is a master regulator of stress response in E . coli . To study the role of active degradation , we decreased the degradation of MarA two ways: either by knocking down the protease that degrades it , or by modifying MarA to make it resistant to degradation . We measured how changes to the half-life of MarA change the way MarA’s downstream genes are coordinated over time . Combining these results with a theoretical model shows that active degradation in MarA represents a tradeoff favoring an increased rate of coordination over high maximum coordination . By combining experimental results with a theoretical framework , this research provides new insights into the advantages and disadvantage of actively degrading MarA .
Leishmania species are parasites that are of extensive public health importance in the tropics and subtropics . Within humans the parasites are intracellular and reside particularly within macrophages . Classical activation of macrophages by Interferon-γ ( IFN-γ ) induces the enzyme nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) and parasites are killed via the production of nitric oxide ( NO ) from the substrate L-arginine . Alternative activation by Interleukin-4 ( IL-4 ) results in Arginase-1 expression , which depletes L-arginine and facilitates parasite growth . We have recently shown that MAP Kinase Phosphatase-2 ( MKP-2 ) suppresses macrophage Arginase-1 and that C57BL/6 mice with a deletion of this gene are subsequently extremely susceptible to New World cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania mexicana . Surprisingly , MKP-2 deficient mice have been shown here to be resistant to Old World cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L . major . We show that during infection with L . major , enhanced Arginase-1 in MKP-2 deficient mice serves to induce a generalized T cell hypo-responsiveness so that IFN-γ and IL-4 levels are equally suppressed compared with intact mice . In addition , unlike L . mexicana , classically activated MKP-2 deficient macrophages were able to control L . major growth equally as well as MKP-2 intact macrophages , highlighting a fundamental difference in the control of these two species .
In the pancreas of mammals , digestive enzymes are transported from their production site in acini ( clusters of cells that secrete the enzymes ) to the intestine via a network of ducts . During organ development in fetuses , the ducts initially form by the coordinated polarization of cells to form small holes , which will connect and fuse , to constitute a meshwork . This hyperconnected network further develops into a treelike structure by the time of birth . In this article , we use methods originally developed to analyze road , rail , web , or river networks to quantify the network properties at different developmental stages . We find that the pancreatic network properties are similar between individuals at specific time points but eventually change to achieve the most economical and optimized structure to deliver pancreatic juice into the duodenum . Using in silico modeling , we show how the stages of pancreatic network development follow two simple rules , which are likely to be conserved for the development of other glands . The early stage of the network is explained by noisy , redundant duct connection as new small ductal holes form . Later on , the secretion of fluid that runs through the pancreatic network into the duodenum leads to the widening of ducts with the greatest flow , while nonnecessary ducts are eliminated , akin to how river beds are formed .
Kinesin motor proteins transport cargo along microtubule tracks to support essential cellular functions including cell growth , axonal signaling and the separation of chromosomes during cell division . All kinesins contain one or more conserved motor domains that modulate binding and movement along microtubules via cycles of ATP hydrolysis . Important conformational transitions occurring during this cycle have been characterized with extensive crystallographic studies . However , the link between the observed conformations and the mechanisms involved in conformational change and microtubule interaction modulation remain unclear . Here we describe a comprehensive principal component analysis of available motor domain crystallographic structures supplemented with extensive unbiased conventional and accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that together characterize the response of kinesin motor domains to ATP binding and hydrolysis . Our studies reveal atomic details of conformational transitions , as well as novel nucleotide-dependent dynamical couplings , of distal regions and residues potentially important for the allosteric link between nucleotide and microtubule binding sites .
Bioluminescent reporters are used in many areas of biology as fast , sensitive and non-destructive measures of gene expression . They have been developed for bacteria , adapted now for other kinds of organisms , and recently been used for whole cell biosensors , and for real-time live animal models for infection without the need for euthanasia . However , users of Lux technologies rely on the light output being similar to the gene expression they wish to measure . We show that this is not the case . Rather , there is a nonlinear relationship between the two: light output can be misleading and so limits the way that such data can be interpreted . We have developed a new computational method that , for the first time , allows users of Lux reporters to infer accurate gene transcription levels from bioluminescent data . We show examples where a small decrease in light would be better interpreted as promoter being switched off , or where an increase in light would be better interpreted as promoter activity for a longer time .
Hand , foot and mouth disease ( HFMD ) , a common infectious disease of children documented worldwide is caused by enterovirus infection . Coxsackievirus A16 ( CVA16 ) and enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) are the major causative agents of HFMD . Although EV71 vaccines have completed phase III clinical trials , there remains no vaccine against CVA16 or licensed drug against either CVA16 or EV71 . In this study we show the crystal structure of CVA16 in complex with inhibitor GPP3 , shedding light on the residues involved in the interaction with the virus capsid . Taking advantage of the crystal structure we employed a quantum mechanics polarized ligand docking ( QMPLD ) protocol to dock two recently designed capsid binders . These molecules have been already proven to be very powerful inhibitors of EV71 and here we show that they exhibit strong antiviral activity against a wide range of enterovirus . Our research provides new insights into the design of inhibitors for the treatment of different pathogenic enterovirus infections .
Serpin inhibitors control a wide range of rapid physiological responses that are activated by proteolytic cascades , such as blood coagulation , inflammation , the complement pathway , and angiogenesis . They interact with their target proteinases by a “suicide inhibition” mechanism , which generates an inert , denatured , serpin/proteinase complex . In mammals , humoral serpins are secreted from the liver into the blood plasma . The denatured complex is later endocytosed back into the liver and degraded . In Drosophila , the Necrotic serpin is secreted from the fat-body into the haemolymph , where it controls the humoral immune response . We show here , however , that Necrotic is not endocytosed in the fat-body , but in the garland and pericardial athrocytes . These cells clear serpins from the haemolymph extremely rapidly . The Necrotic-binding receptor for this process is LpR1 , a member of the LDLR family . The endocytosed serpin is targeted for lysosomal degradation , with none being recycled to the haemolymph . More importantly , we show that mutations in LpR1 cause a profound effect on the immune response . Thus , our results indicate that the scavenging of serpin/proteinase complexes might be a critical step in the regulation of proteolytic cascades .
Bilateral animals that are externally symmetric in appearance often have internal organs that are asymmetric with respect to the left and right sides of their bodies . Two signals , Nodal and BMP , have been shown to establish this asymmetry during vertebrate embryogenesis . We investigate here whether the same mechanisms that establish left-right patterning in vertebrates are conserved in invertebrate animals , specifically in the California purple sea urchin . This sea urchin passes through various stages in its lifecycle before developing to adulthood , including a feeding larva stage in which the tissue that goes on to form the adult , the so-called adult rudiment , forms on the left side . Previous studies have shown that right-sided Nodal signaling in sea urchins prevents the formation of the adult rudiment . In this study , we show that BMP signaling is activated on the left side and is required for the development of this left-sided structure . We also demonstrate that Nodal signaling blocks BMP activity and induces apoptosis of the tissue that forms the adult rudiment on the right side . We propose that the roles of Nodal and BMP signals in establishing left-right asymmetry are evolutionarily conserved .
Cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) control the cell division cycle . Many viruses employ CDK activity to control critical steps of their own replication cycle and to synchronise their replication with the cell cycle dependent availability of vital cellular enzymes and molecular building blocks . Here we show an unexpected antiviral function of CDK activity at a very early stage of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection , the onset of immediate early ( IE ) gene expression . HCMV is unique amongst herpesviruses in being unable to initiate IE gene expression during the S/G2 phase of the cell cycle . CDK inhibition by either DNA damage-dependent induction of the cellular CDK inhibitor p21 or by the pharmacological CDK inhibitor roscovitine overcomes this limitation and makes S/G2 cells fully permissive for HCMV . Importantly , in undifferentiated NTera2 ( NT2 ) cells , which normally establish a quiescent , latent-like HCMV infection , CDK inhibition also relieves the block of IE gene expression , suggesting a more general role for CDK activity in the control of this important human pathogen .
Elite controllers ( EC ) , a small group of HIV-1-infected individuals that are able to control viral replication in the absence of antiretroviral therapy , provide living evidence that the human immune system is able to spontaneously control HIV-1 infection and serve as a model for inducing a functional cure of HIV-1 infection in broader patient populations . Prior studies indicated that T cell-mediated immune responses represent the backbone of effective antiviral immune defense in EC; however , emerging studies suggest that innate and cell-intrinsic immune activities may have critical roles for supporting and enhancing HIV-1-specific T cells . Here , we performed a detailed investigation of conventional dendritic cells ( cDC ) from elite controllers and their responses to HIV-1 infection . These studies indicate that cDC from EC have improved abilities to sense cytosolic HIV-1 replication products , and can more effectively mount cell-intrinsic type I interferon ( IFN ) secretion in response to HIV-1 infection . Notably , such increased production of type I IFN in response to viral antigen translated into enhanced abilities to prime and expand HIV-1-specific T cells . Together , these data suggest that a fine-tuned interplay between innate dendritic cell responses and adaptive HIV-1-specific CD8 T cells represents a critical component of antiviral immune defense in elite controllers .
Obesity is a major problem in affluent societies . In addition to dietary intake , there are clearly genetic factors that make some people more likely to become obese . At present , we have a poor understanding of what the genetic differences are that predispose some individuals to obesity . In order to discover genes that regulate the amount of stored fat , we have conducted a study using larvae of the fruit fly Drosophila and shown that 66 different genes , when mutated , cause these larvae to store more fat . For the majority of these genes , very similar genes exist in humans . We have also shown that the Sir2 gene has a role in protecting these larvae from storing excessive amounts of fat and that it does so by regulating the synthesis and breakdown of fat in individual cells of a tissue where fat is stored . Finally , we demonstrate a role for Sir2 in changing metabolism when certain types of nutrients ( amino acids ) are lacking in the diet .
The cell is a level of biological organization that has been poorly explored from an evolutionary perspective because basic cell functions ( e . g . , cell division ) show remarkable conservation across phyla . Thus , an essential question remains: to what extent can cellular mechanisms evolve without altering the basic function they sustain ? We chose the asymmetric embryonic division of nematodes as a system to address this question . The first embryonic division of most nematode species gives rise to two daughter cells of unequal size and fate due to the asymmetric positioning of the mitotic spindle . This initial event is crucial to embryogenesis and has been extensively studied in the nematode species Caenorhabditis elegans . In this study , we recorded the first embryonic division of 42 nematode species , corresponding to 128 different strains and approximately 1 , 320 embryos , and characterized spindle movements . We found that significantly different combinations of spindle movements ultimately led to an asymmetric positioning of the spindle and observed that even between virtually identical phenotypes , spindle mechanics differed . We thus conclude that asymmetric cell division is an essential cellular function that is maintained over the course of evolution while the underlying mechanism that sustains it—asymmetric spindle positioning—changes rapidly . In addition , our collection of subcellular phenotypes constitutes a powerful resource to investigate other evolutional aspects of cellular processes .
Salmonella Typhimurium is closely related to Escherichia coli and they possess identical OmpR DNA binding proteins . S . Typhimurium uses OmpR to control the expression of genes involved in adaptation to acid rather than osmotic stress . OmpR expression increases in response to acid stress in S . Typhimurium but not in E . coli due to structural differences in the ompR regulatory region . S . Typhimurium OmpR controls many genes , few of which are in E . coli . Many OmpR-regulated S . Typhimurium-specific targets have been acquired by horizontal gene transfer and contribute to pathogenesis . During infection , S . Typhimurium adapts to the macrophage vacuole , an acidic niche where S . Typhimurium DNA becomes relaxed . DNA relaxation accompanies acid stress in S . Typhimurium but not E . coli and enhances OmpR binding to DNA . Drug-induced DNA relaxation mimics the effect of acid stress on OmpR binding to DNA . Thus acid-sensitive OmpR activity in S . Typhimurium allows OmpR to control many S . Typhimurium-specific genes through a mechanism that depends on changes to DNA topology . We propose that this allosteric role for DNA , combined with a weak requirement on the part of OmpR for binding site sequence specificity , accommodates flexibility in regulon membership and facilitates bacterial evolution .
Chlamydia trachomatis is a particularly prevalent human pathogen responsible for loss of eyesight through trachoma and is the most common sexually transmitted disease of bacterial origin . Unlike most other bacterial pathogens , chlamydiae survive only within another cell and thus must develop sophisticated mechanisms to subvert immune clearance by their host . To this end , the bacteria secrete proteins into the cells they occupy which disrupt normal cellular function . In this work , we identify one such protein , NUE , which is injected into the nucleus of human cells during infection . Sequence analysis of NUE revealed the presence of a SET domain which suggests its involvement in chromatin remodeling . Indeed , we found the protein associated with chromatin both during infection and when transfected into human cells . Importantly , we demonstrate NUE is an active histone methyltransferase that targets host cell histones but does not modify bacterial histone-like proteins . This is the first bacterial protein identified which is able to penetrate the nucleus and directly modify mammalian histones .
Studies investigating the extent to which genetics influences human characteristics such as height have concentrated mainly on common variants of genes , where having one or two copies of a given variant influences the trait or risk of disease . This study explores whether a different type of genetic variant might also be important . We investigate the role of recessive genetic variants , where two identical copies of a variant are required to have an effect . By measuring genome-wide homozygosity—the phenomenon of inheriting two identical copies at a given point of the genome—in 35 , 000 individuals from 21 European populations , and by comparing this to individual height , we found that the more homozygous the genome , the shorter the individual . The offspring of first cousins ( who have increased homozygosity ) were predicted to be up to 3 cm shorter on average than the offspring of unrelated parents . Height is influenced by the combined effect of many recessive variants dispersed across the genome . This may also be true for other human characteristics and diseases , opening up a new way to understand how genetic variation influences our health .
Blood monocytes ( MO ) belong to the first line of defense against infectious pathogens , but little is known of MO phenotype and function during acute malaria infection . In patients with acute uncomplicated malaria , we identified a unique , and so far not described , minor population of MO . The percentage and absolute number of MO with this unusual phenotype was high in patients with low level of blood parasitemia , suggesting that activation of this particular subset of blood MO was potentially associated with the control of parasite infection . Indeed , the MO from these patients were the most efficient in the assay of antibody- and cellular-dependent inhibition of parasite multiplication ( ADCI ) . These results support the hypothesis that discrete MO subpopulations are induced during malaria infection and are associated with anti-parasitic activity .
Fishing communities in East Africa have a very high prevalence of HIV , and also high rates of other endemic infections such as malaria and the fluke Schistosoma mansoni . Genital infections are known to increase HIV susceptibility through the recruitment and activation of mucosal CD4 T cells to the site of HIV sexual exposure . These activated CD4 T cells are necessary for an effective host immune response but are also preferentially infected by HIV . We hypothesized that S . mansoni infection in the gut mucosa might increase recruitment and activation of HIV target cells at other mucosal sites , and thereby contribute to high HIV rates in fishing communities . We enrolled men from a fishing community in Uganda and examined the frequency of highly HIV-susceptible cell types in their blood and foreskin tissue ( a main site of HIV acquisition in heterosexual men ) . We found that men with S . mansoni infection had a greater frequency of HIV target cells in their blood , but not their foreskin tissue , perhaps because foreskin cells did not express mucosal homing markers . It is possible that HIV target cells observed in the blood of S . mansoni-infected individuals may traffic to other mucosae , such as the vagina or gut , and so the possibility that S . mansoni infection increases risk at these sites should be explored .
Filarial nematodes are a group of pathogenic helminth parasites that include those responsible for the diseases , lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis . These nematodes have evolved a mutualistic association with the intracellular bacterial symbiont , Wolbachia , providing a novel approach to their treatment and control using antibiotics . Why depletion of Wolbachia leads to anti-filarial activity remains unknown . Here we show that depletion of the bacteria leads to a rapid and sustained induction of cell death through apoptosis of reproductive cells , developing embryos , microfilariae and developing larvae . Apoptosis surprisingly affects embryonic cells other than those infected with the bacteria , leading us to conclude that the Wolbachia populations in the adult hypodermis , rather than the few bacteria present in the developing embryos , are essential to avoid apoptosis . Our observation provides a mode of action to account for some of the key anti-filarial activities of antibiotic treatment of filarial nematodes and identifies one of the biological processes that form the basis of this mutualistic symbiosis .
The coenzyme A ( CoA ) biosynthetic pathway is under investigation as a target for the development of drugs aimed at several infectious agents , including malaria parasites . To synthesise CoA , the parasite scavenges the essential precursor pantothenate ( vitamin B5 ) . Several pantothenate analogues possess potent ( nM ) activity against the parasite , but their exact mechanism of action is unknown . We have generated mutant parasites that are resistant or hypersensitive to various pantothenate analogues . These parasites harbour mutations in a gene we now show codes for the first enzyme in the CoA biosynthesis pathway . This enzyme is not the target of the analogues , but instead converts them into antimetabolites that , depending on the analogue , either inhibit a CoA biosynthesis enzyme or downstream CoA-utilising enzymes .
We performed genome-wide association studies in African American participants from four population-based cohorts to identify genetic variation that correlates with variation in PR interval duration , an electrocardiographic measure of conduction through the atria and atrioventricular node . We observed a strong signal within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel , SCN5A , with genome-wide significant association ( p<2 . 5×10−8 ) in two cohorts and in a meta-analysis of four cohorts with African Americans . We replicated this association in two additional cohorts of African Americans and in Europeans ( p = 3×10−16 ) . The signal explains 2% of PR duration variability in African Americans and 0 . 5% in Europeans . In further meta-analysis , we observed genome-wide significant associations for single nucleotide polymorphisms in SCN10A , MEIS1 , TBX5 , corresponding to signals observed in people of European and Asian descent . We found an association of genetic ancestry and PR interval in one but not the other three cohorts . Our findings provide the first demonstration of the relevance of these loci to individuals of African ancestry and identify an association signal from SCN5A that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans .
Many important pathogens of plants , animals , and humans are positive-strand RNA viruses . They replicate via complementary RNA in replication complexes formed on host intracellular membranes . In the replication process , not only viral replication proteins but also host factors play important roles . Although many host factors whose knockdown affects the multiplication of positive-strand RNA viruses have been identified , the function of each host factor in virus multiplication is only poorly understood in most instances . In this paper , we show that a host small GTP-binding protein ARL8 is required for the multiplication of Tomato mosaic virus ( ToMV ) , and that it forms a complex with ToMV replication proteins and another essential host factor TOM1 that is a seven-pass transmembrane protein . We further demonstrate that the replication proteins acquire the ability to synthesize negative-strand ToMV RNA and RNA 5′ cap only in the presence of both TOM1 and ARL8 . The replication proteins of ToMV are multifunctional proteins that participate in RNA replication on membranes and RNA silencing suppression in the cytosol . Our results suggest that ToMV replication proteins are programmed to express their replication-related activities only on membranes through interactions with these host membrane proteins .
Understanding how inhibitory neurons interact with excitatory neurons is critical for understanding the behaviors of neuronal networks . Here we address this question with simple but biologically relevant models based on the anatomy of the locust olfactory pathway . Two ubiquitous and basic inhibitory motifs were tested: feed-forward and feedback . Feed-forward inhibition typically occurs between different brain areas when excitatory neurons excite inhibitory cells , which then inhibit a group of postsynaptic excitatory neurons outside of the initializing excitatory neurons’ area . On the other hand , the feedback inhibitory motif requires a population of excitatory neurons to drive the inhibitory cells , which in turn inhibit the same population of excitatory cells . We found the type of the inhibitory motif determined the timing with which each group of cells fired action potentials in comparison to one another ( relative timing ) . It also affected the range of inhibitory neurons’ activity , with the inhibitory neurons having a wider range in the feedback circuit than that in the feed-forward one . These results will allow predicting the type of the connectivity structure within unexplored biological circuits given only electrophysiological recordings .
Rabies is an infectious disease of humans and other mammals caused by lyssaviruses . It has one of the highest mortality rates of any infectious disease . Rabies has been known since Antiquity , but it continues to cause approximately 59 , 000 human deaths per year , particularly in low-income areas in Asia and Africa , where it is still a neglected disease . In these regions , rabies surveillance remains limited , leading to considerable underreporting of rabies cases in humans and animals . One of the principal obstacles to effective surveillance is the difficulty confirming human rabies cases . Clinical diagnosis remains challenging , so all cases must be confirmed by laboratory tests . We describe here the development and validation of a molecular diagnostic tool for lyssavirus infection based on the detection of viral RNA . We evaluated this technique against one of the largest panels of biological samples from animals and humans ever assembled . It was found to be useful and practicable in national reference centers in enzootic regions .
Sixty million people and more than 70 million livestock live in Africa at risk of contracting trypanosomiasis . The heads of member states of the African Union ( AU ) declared the year 2000 as the beginning of the Pan African Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Eradication Campaign to eradicate tsetse flies and the diseases they transmit from the continent . For the first time the social and economic consequences of trypanosomiasis were brought to the attention of the affected populations . Efforts to control the fatal disease in man and livestock are based on treatment of patients and livestock with trypanocidal drugs . Resistance-related drug failures are increasing . Methods to control tsetse flies rely on insecticides . Past tsetse campaigns proved unsustainable due to the public good character of most control techniques such as aerial and ground spraying , traps or targets . Treating livestock with insecticides may be more sustainable and is also controlling ticks , which can transmit economically important and often fatal diseases . Costs per head of livestock and tick resistance against insecticides are seen as a major hindrance to their continuous large-scale use . Insecticide treated nets proved an effective and affordable means protecting pigs against tsetse transmitted trypanosomoses in Ghana .
There is increasing interest in the scientific community about whether published research is transparent and reproducible . Lack of replication and non-transparency decreases the value of research . Several biomedical journals have started to encourage or require authors to submit detailed protocols , full datasets , and disclose information on funding and potential conflicts of interest . In this study , we investigate the reproducibility and transparency practices across the full spectrum of published biomedical literature from 2000–2014 . We identify an ongoing lack of access to full datasets and detailed protocols for both clinical and non-clinical biomedical investigation . We also map the availability of information on funding and conflicts of interest in this literature . The results from this study provide baseline data to compare future progress in improving these indicators in the scientific literature . We believe that this information may be essential to sensitize stakeholders in science about the need for improving reproducibility and transparency practices .
Inhalation of the bacterium Yersinia pestis results in primary pneumonic plague , a severe necrotizing pneumonia with mortality rates approaching 100% in the absence of timely antibiotic administration . Despite the notoriety of Y . pestis as a potential biological weapon and its well-established pandemic potential , very little is known regarding early host-pathogen interactions that lead to the progression of pulmonary infection . Y . pestis harbors a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) for delivery of Yersinia outer protein ( Yop ) effectors into host cells , an early and essential step in pathogenesis . In the work presented here , we identify the host cell targets of Y . pestis Yop secretion in the lung . We show that Y . pestis initially targets alveolar macrophages , followed by a shift in host cell preference to neutrophils . Through cellular depletion studies , we demonstrate that Y . pestis is highly resistant to macrophage- and neutrophil-mediated clearance , and that the accumulation of neutrophils in the lung is responsible for the severe necrotizing pneumonia that develops during the pro-inflammatory phase of pneumonic plague .
Visceral leishmaniasis or kala-azar in Brazil , caused by a parasite protozoon , is transmitted to humans by sandflies and has wild and domestic dogs as reservoirs . The disease can become chronic , characterized by fever , weight loss , and enlargement of the liver and spleen . However , the infection in humans can be asymptomatic , and the importance of this phase is unknown . The low levels of immune response and the small number of circulating parasites in the blood are the main problems in identifying the asymptomatic phase . In this study we evaluated the performance of the serology tests compared with molecular tests to identify asymptomatic infection in individuals identified in an urban area of Brazil . Also included were non-infected individuals ( healthy controls ) and patients ( diseased controls ) . Blood was collected and examined by different serological methods and compared with molecular techniques . The presence of the parasite was confirmed by all molecular techniques and should be the method used to identify true infection . The serology methods showed low sensitivity in detecting the infection . We concluded that the serologic methods are inaccurate in identifying asymptomatic infection when compared to molecular techniques and could underestimate the infection in population studies .
Repetitive DNA sequences make up almost half the mammalian genome . A large proportion of mammalian repetitive DNA sequences use RNA intermediates to amplify and insert themselves into new locations in the genome . Mammalian genomes contain hundreds of different types of these mutagenic retrotransposons , but the mechanisms that host cells use to silence most of these elements are poorly understood . Here we describe a computational approach to monitoring expression of hundreds of different retrotransposons in gene expression microarray datasets . This approach reveals new retrotransposon targets for silencing mechanisms such as DNA methylation , histone modification and polycomb repression in mouse embryonic stem cells , and identifies the histone deacetylase Hdac1 as a regulator of retrotransposons in this cell type . These computational predictions are verified experimentally by qRT-PCR in Dnmt1−/− Dnmt3a−/− Dnmt3b−/− embryonic stem cells , Ring1B−/− embryonic stem cells , and Hdac1−/− embryonic stem cells . We also use microarray analysis of retrotransposon expression to show that the pluripotency-associated Tex19 . 1 gene has exquisite specificity for MMERVK10C elements in developing male germ cells . Importantly , our computational analysis also suggests that different genomic copies of individual retrotransposons can be differentially regulated , and helps identify the sequences in these retrotransposons that are being targeted by the host cell's silencing mechanisms .
Arabidopsis thaliana blue light receptor cryptochromes ( CRYs ) mediate light control of flowering time by interacting with CIB1 ( CRY2-interacting bHLH1 ) in response to blue light . However , it remains unclear how the blue light-dependent CRY2-CIB1 interaction affects the FT transcription . We report here that in addition to CIB1 , CRY2 also interact with CIB1 related bHLH proteins , CIBs . These CIBs act redundantly with CIB1 to activate the transcription of FT and flowering . More importantly , CIB1 and the CIBs can form heterodimers and some of those heterodimers have a higher binding affinity to the non-canonical E-box , although their homodimers all prefer canonical E-box ( G-box ) , so they can bind to the non-canonical E-Box sequences of the FT promoter . This is the first example in plants that heterodimerization of bHLH can change the DNA binding affinity or specificity . CIB proteins are involved in blue light signaling and they are specifically stabilized by blue light .
Intestinal parasites including hookworm , Strongyloides stercoralis , Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichuria have been found to be prevalent in refugee populations . More than 50 , 000 refugees resettle in the United States annually . Since parasitic disease associated with these infections are rare in the United States , there may be delays in diagnosis or improper treatment of refugees , especially for strongyloidiasis . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began overseas presumptive treatment programs in some refugee populations in 1999 . We examined the cost and economic impact of an overseas presumptive treatment program with albendazole and ivermectin for Asian refugees . We found that the program costs about $15 . 12 per refugee and that the burden of intestinal parasites would be reduced by about 80% considering cases , hospitalizations , life years , and QALYs . Overall , the cost per QALY gained was $2 , 219 ( 95% CI: 600–29 , 500 ) . Compared to an alternative program in which refugees would be screened and treated for these infections after arrival in the United States , the overseas presumptive treatment program is less expensive and at least as effective .
Pathogens evolve under selective pressure from host organisms to successfully invade and proliferate in different cells and tissues of the host for their own benefit . Microsporidia represent one of the most successful phyla of pathogens , with severely reduced genomes and loss of core cellular and metabolic pathways making them dependent on host cells for their own proliferation . We sampled around Paris , France , for wild nematodes infected with natural pathogens , and discovered a wild Caenorhabditis elegans that was infected with a new species of microsporidia . We characterize the life cycle of this new species , showing the pathogen enters via host feeding , replicates in multiple host tissues , and exits as new spores via a novel vulva bursting mechanism , leading us to name this species Nematocida displodere . Despite the capacity of N . displodere to invade multiple host tissues during infection , we found that the parasite showed very little replication in the intestine . This unique tissue specificity of N . displodere stands in stark contrast to its two closest-related species , Nematocida parisii and Nematocida sp . 1 , which exclusively infect and proliferate in the intestine of C . elegans . We compared the genomes of these related species and found that N . displodere devotes over 10% of its genome to a single large gene family not found in any other species , and propose that their encoded proteins may be interacting with host factors during infection .
Cockayne syndrome is a devastating inherited disease; the average life span of those afflicted is 12 years . Cockayne syndrome patients have features of premature aging , are highly sensitive to sunlight , and suffer from numerous developmental and neurological disorders . The majority of Cockayne syndrome patients have mutations in the CSB protein; however , how these mutations can lead to Cockayne syndrome is largely unknown . CSB is essential for transcription-coupled DNA repair—a process that preferentially removes bulky DNA lesions that stall transcription , such as those created by ultraviolet light . In eukaryotes , DNA is packaged into nucleosomes , which consists of DNA wrapped around a set of core histone proteins , and nucleosomes can create barriers to the DNA repair process . In this study , we found that CSB can slide histones along DNA . We also found that histone chaperones , proteins that accept and donate histones , greatly facilitate this process . Importantly , we show that CSB derivatives that are unable to move nucleosomes or collaborate with histone chaperones cannot repair UV-induced DNA lesions . Our study reveals that nucleosome remodeling by CSB is important for transcription-coupled DNA repair and suggests that an inability to efficiently mobilize nucleosomes might contribute to the underlying mechanism of Cockayne syndrome .
Multiple published studies have demonstrated that epigenetic variation can contribute to phenotypic variation . In the present study , we identified regions of common methylation variation in five cell types , observing that these show enrichments for functional genomic features . Surprisingly , we found that these epigenetic variations can form biologically relevant networks that are specific to each cell type , often occurring near genes that have functional relevance to the cell type . Further these regions show reduced heritability , suggesting they may be responsive to environmental cues . We confirmed this by subjecting isogenic fibroblast cultures to different environmental stress . Our study provides insight into patterns of normal epigenetic variation in the human population .
Dengue is a serious public health concern with around 3 billion people at risk of infection . Severe forms of the infection can be fatal and with no licensed vaccine or effective therapeutic currently available , early detection is important to assist with the clinical management of symptoms . Isolation of the virus and the detection of viral RNA using RT-PCR are commonly used methods for early diagnosis but are time-consuming , expensive and require skilled operation . Rapid immunochromatographic tests ( ICT ) are relatively simple , inexpensive and easy to perform at or near the point of care . Here , we report on the clinical performance of a new rapid ICT for the non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) of dengue virus , a marker of acute infection . At two clinical study sites , NS1 was detected in 60–70% of laboratory-confirmed dengue cases and specificity of the test was >95% . We have also shown that a combined testing approach for both circulating NS1 antigen and antibody responses to the glycoprotein E of the virus can significantly improve diagnostic sensitivity compared to the detection of NS1 alone . Importantly , the combined antigen and antibody testing approach also provides an expanded window of detection from as early as day 1 post-onset of illness .
Many non-coding genes exert their function via an RNA structure which starts emerging while the RNA sequence is being transcribed from the genome . The resulting folding pathway is known to depend on a variety of features such as the transcription speed , the concentration of various ions and the binding of proteins and other molecules . Not all of these influences can be adequately captured by the existing computational methods which try to replicate what happens in vivo . So far , it has been challenging to experimentally investigate co-transcriptional folding pathways in vivo and only little data from in vitro experiments exists . In order to investigate if functionally similar RNA sequences from different organisms fold in a similar way , we have developed a new computational method , called Transat , which does not require the detailed computational modeling of the cellular environment . We show in a comprehensive analysis that our method is capable of detecting known structural features and provide evidence that structural features of the in vivo folding pathways have been conserved for several biologically interesting classes of RNA sequences .
To protect themselves from pathogens , plants detect pathogen attack and send this information through a signaling network that activates various immune responses . Pathogens secrete effectors that disable components of the immune signaling network . Thus , the function of the plant immune signaling network must be well buffered from effector perturbations . Not much is known about how such network buffering is achieved . This is partly because the effects of mutations in single network components are also well buffered by the network . To overcome this shortcoming of single-gene mutant analysis , we employed a network reconstitution strategy , in which four major signaling sectors were first disabled and then restored one by one to determine the functions of the signaling sectors and their interactions . We collected and analyzed transcriptome and hormone profiles from all possible states of network reconstitution along time courses after immune stimulation with bacterial flagellin . We discovered that the network is not a collection of independent pathways; rather , interactions among the sectors dominate network regulation of the transcriptome response , which explains the extensive network buffering observed . Consequently , apparent network mechanisms inferred based on single-gene mutant analysis were often different from the underlying mechanisms .
Genetic mechanisms patterning neuroepithelial domains are a critical first step to diversify cellular identity of the developing nervous system . How many cells develop from distinct neuroepithelial domains depends on overall size and growth but also on positioning of boundaries . Using the embryonic optic placode of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster as a model , we identify basic genetic mechanisms of how distinct domains with different fates emerge from an early , seemingly uniform , neurogenic region . We show that the boundary between two transcription factors is critical to determine how many cells are incorporated in either domain . This is achieved by coordinated interaction of Hedgehog and Notch signaling , which control proliferation and regulate domain-specific transcription factors . The mechanisms employed here in an epithelial placode to determine photoreceptor precursors display similarities with the ones previously identified in the adult compound eye , further supporting the notion of a common developmental program for the larval eye and adult compound eye .
The human body is constantly challenged by commensal and by pathogenic bacteria . Antimicrobial molecules of the innate immune system protect the human body from bacterial overgrowth and keep human microbiota in balance . One of the most prominent antimicrobial molecules is the human beta defensin 1 ( hBD1 ) . It is , in contrast to other defensins , constantly expressed by epithelial cells and exhibit diverse host antimicrobial strategies , which are much more complex than expected some years ago . Here , we aimed to study the unknown mechanisms of the different redox forms of hBD1 . We detected , besides bacterial cell wall disruption , a so far unknown net-like structure surrounding bacteria , which entraps bacteria , independent of bacterial components and antimicrobial activity . Of note , these nets are depending on the amino acid cysteine and these nets are stable even in the presence of physiological human duodenal fluid . We demonstrated that net formation by reduced hBD1 prevents bacterial translocation , including hBD1 resistant pathogens . These findings highlight the complexity of these conserved antimicrobial defense mechanisms and help to find new antimicrobial strategies .
Phosphoinositide lipids are key regulators of cellular physiology and consequently enzymes that generate or remove these lipids are of fundamental importance . Mutation of one such enzyme , called OCRL1 , causes two disorders in humans , Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease . However , the underlying mechanisms remain poorly defined . Here , we demonstrate that OCRL1 regulates endocytosis , the process by which cells internalize material from their extracellular environment . Importantly , this is demonstrated in a physiologically relevant tissue in vivo , namely the zebrafish renal tubule . Defective endocytosis can explain the renal symptoms seen in Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 patients . We also report that defects in cell polarity or cilia formation cannot explain the renal symptoms . This study not only increases our understanding of the endocytic pathway , it also provides a mechanistic explanation for the renal defects observed in Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 patients .
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is an arthropod-borne viral disease that affects people , livestock and wild animals . It occurs mostly in Africa , and epidemics have been reported in the Arabian Peninsula . RVF is transmitted to humans and animals by mosquitoes , but people can also get the infection through direct contact with blood or tissues of infected animals . The disease occurs in epidemic form in a cycle of 5–15 years , but some reports also indicate occurrences of the disease during non-epidemic periods . We report here inter-epidemic period transmission of RVF in livestock population , evidenced by demonstration of RVFV antibodies in animals that were born after the 2006/07 RVF outbreak in Tanzania and demonstration of immunoglobulin M ( IgM ) , a short lived class of antibodies , following infection by RVF virus in 9 samples . We have also identified hotspots of transmission in the study area , with exposure being higher away from the main flood plain . There was a linear increase in percent seropositivity from 1 year olds to age 5 years , implying a possible annual challenge .
Several free-living protozoa possess a contractile vacuole complex ( CVC ) that protects them from the hyposmotic environments where they live . Interestingly , the intracellular parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , the etiologic agent of Chagas disease , has conserved a CVC in all its developmental stages , where it has an osmoregulatory role under both hyposmotic and hyperosmotic conditions . We found here that the CVC of T . cruzi has an additional unconventional role in traffic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins to the plasma membrane of the parasite . A combination of genetic and biochemical approaches revealed the role of TcRab11 , a protein localized to the CVC , in traffic of trans-sialidase ( TcTS ) , a GPI-anchored protein important for host cell invasion , but not of other GPI-anchored proteins or integral membrane proteins , to the plasma membrane . Demonstration of the role of TcTS in infection has been previously difficult given the large number of genes encoding for this protein distributed through the genome of the parasite . However , by constructing dominant negative TcRab11 we were able to prevent traffic of TcTS to the plasma membrane and demonstrate its role in host invasion .
Rabies is a deadly , but vaccine-preventable disease which still causes tens of thousands of deaths yearly , mostly in Asia and Africa . Rabies virus is spread via the saliva of infected mammals to humans , usually through bites or contamination of open wounds . Access to measures like wound cleansing with soap and rabies vaccination immediately after contact with a suspected rabid animal ( exposure ) can be life-saving . The post-exposure vaccination schedule currently recommended by the World Health Organization for intradermal injection is the Thai Red Cross regimen , requiring 4 clinic visits in one month , with 2 injections given at each visit on days ( D ) 0 ( day of the contact ) , 3 , 7 , and 28 . In this study , we evaluated the antibody responses and the safety profile of a new shortened schedule , requiring 3 clinic visits and only 1 week to complete , consisting of 4 intradermal injections given at each visit on D0 , 3 , and 7 ( the 4-site/1-week regimen ) . The study was conducted in the Philippines and Thailand which enrolled 885 healthy volunteers , at least 1 year of age , with no real exposure to rabies . The two schedules induced adequate antibody responses in similar proportion of volunteers at day 49 . The vaccine administration according to both schedules was well tolerated .
One of the most distinguishing features of the human brain is its ability to detect and attend to salient events in the environment . The salience network—a core large-scale brain network anchored in the anterior insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex—is thought to play a crucial role in this process . To gain insights into the mechanisms that support this complex set of functions carried out by the salience network , we analyzed state-of-the-art fMRI data collected during multiple sessions with subsecond resolution and mapped dynamic time-varying functional interactions among the key neural components within the salience network and between the salience network and other core brain networks . We show that the large-scale brain dynamics of the salience network is characterized by several distinctive , behaviorally relevant , and robust properties , highlighting its highly flexible yet stable organization . Our findings provide fundamental new insights into the dynamic functional architecture of the salience network and demonstrate how it is uniquely positioned to facilitate interactions with multiple functional systems and thereby support cognitive flexibility .
Viruses exploit host cells for their propagation . Once an adequate number of viral particles have been assembled within the cell through the aid of cellular machinery of the host cell , the virus must be released from the cell for the virus to spread . For nonenveloped viruses or viruses that are solely encapsulated by a protein shell , this step most commonly involves the perforation of cellular membranes resulting in the lysis or death of the host cell . The mechanism for how this key terminal step in the viral life cycle is performed is poorly understood . We demonstrated that for the model nonenveloped virus SV40 , the newly discovered virally encoded protein , termed VP4 , perforates membranes by forming pores with a diameter of ∼3 nm in host cell membranes . While these pores are not of a sufficient size to provide a conduit that permits the movement of the virus through the membrane , they support membrane destabilization that leads to the disintegration of the membrane of the host cell and viral release .
Dengue is an emerging mosquito-borne disease present in an extensive area of the globe with an estimated risk exposure of half of the world’s population . Unfortunately , no specific treatment or vaccine is available to control this disease , which leads to approximately 20 , 000 casualties annually . The protective immune response against this pathogen consists of an important goal for the development of anti-dengue strategies . For years , the presence of neutralizing antibodies was believed to represent the major response for protection against dengue . However , a recent clinical trial showed that despite the induction of a balanced antibody response against all serotypes , vaccination had only a partial efficacy . In the present work , we aimed to elucidate the contribution of the cellular and humoral responses elicited by a DNA vaccine candidate encoding the non-structural 1 protein ( NS1 ) from dengue virus . We observed that antibody as well as T cell responses are important for protection against dengue in a cooperative way . Our results demonstrated that an effective defense against virus was not achieved with antibodies or T cells alone , but rather with the combination of both responses . Therefore , we suggest that an ideal vaccine against dengue should induce both arms of the immune system .
Bacterial cell-cell communication systems are based on the secretion of signal molecules . These quorum-sensing systems allow bacteria to coordinate genes expression according to the density of their local population . In Gram-positive bacteria , intracellular quorum sensors regulated by re-internalized signal peptides control the expression of genes involved in essential bacterial processes such as horizontal gene transfer , biofilm formation , sporulation or virulence . In most streptococci , including pathogenic species , the ComR regulator and its cognate signal peptide ComS activate competence for natural DNA transformation , a major mechanism for horizontal gene transfer and antibiotic resistance acquisition . To elucidate the molecular mechanism of ComR activation , we performed the structure-function analysis of the ComRS system from S . thermophilus . We solved the crystal structures of the apo form of ComR and of the complex with XIP , the mature form of ComS , and DNA . We showed that peptide binding shifts the protein from an inactive monomeric state , characterized by the sequestration of the DNA-binding domain , to an active dimer . This idiosyncratic mechanism was confirmed by in vitro interaction measurements and in vivo transcription assays using ComR mutants and XIP variants . These results may be of special interest for the future design of new antimicrobials targeting antibiotic-resistant pathogens .
Electrical signal transduction at chemical synapses of nerve and muscle cells is initiated by the binding of neurotransmitters to their receptors , which function as gated ion channels that open a selective ion conduction path in the ligand-bound state . The pentameric ligand-gated ion channels constitute a very important family of neurotransmitter receptors that includes , amongst others , the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor . While most pLGICs are expressed in higher eukaryotes , there are few family members found in bacteria . These bacterial channels share the overall structural features of the family and are thus expected to function by similar mechanisms , but although the channel from the bacteria Erwinia chrysanthemi has revealed first structural insight into the family at high resolution , its functional characterization was impossible since activating ligands were not known . In our study we have identified ligands activating ELIC and we have located their binding by X-ray crystallography . Ligand binding causes the transition into an open state , which , as in eukaryotic receptors , is only transient and which slowly inactivates in the presence of the ligand . By single channel analysis we found that , similar to the acetylcholine receptor , ELIC forms cation selective channels . With known ligands ELIC has become an important model system to study the general mechanisms of the family .
Eczema ( atopic dermatitis ) is a common allergic skin inflammation that has a particularly high prevalence among children . Importantly , a large proportion of people suffering from eczema go on to develop asthma later in life . Although the susceptibility of eczema patients to asthma is well documented , the mechanism that mediates “atopic march”—the progression from eczema to asthma—is unclear . We used genetic engineering to generate mice with chronic skin-barrier defects and a subsequent eczema-like disorder . With these mice , we were able to investigate how skin-specific defects predisposed the lungs to allergic asthma . We identified thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ) , a cytokine that is secreted by barrier-defective skin into the systemic circulation , as the agent sensitizing the lung to allergens . We demonstrated that high systemic levels of skin-derived TSLP were both required and sufficient to render lung airways hypersensitive to allergens . Thus , these data suggest that early treatment of skin-barrier defects to prevent TSLP overexpression , and systemic inhibition of TSLP , may be crucial in preventing the progression from eczema to asthma .
Genomic studies have greatly benefited from the advent of high-throughput technologies and bioinformatics tools . Here , a methodology integrating genome-scale data and bioinformatics tools is developed to characterize the genome organization of the hyperthermophilic , phylogenetically deep-branching bacterium Thermotoga maritima . This approach elucidates several features of the genome organization and enables comparative analysis of these features across diverse taxa . Our results suggest that the genome of T . maritima is reflective of its hyperthermophilic lifestyle . Ultimately , constraints imposed on the genome have negative impacts on regulatory complexity and phenotypic diversity . Investigating the genome organization of Thermotogae species will help resolve various causal factors contributing to the genome organization such as phylogeny and environment . Applying a similar analysis of the genome organization to numerous taxa will likely provide insights into microbial evolution .
We study how visual perception of a target bar can be biased by contextual bars in the image , and how a Bayesian model of object inference can account for the data . Human observers are more likely to perceive a target bar when the contextual contrast , i . e . , the luminance difference between the contextual bars and background , is weaker rather than stronger . Relative to the situation without the context , they are biased to perceive the target in a context of weak contrast when the target can perceptually group well with the context , as if the context fills in the target . Meanwhile , they are biased not to perceive the target in a context of strong contrast , as if the context suppresses the perception , regardless of whether it could perceptually group well with the would-be target . The Bayesian model illustrates that the context influences the perception by biasing ( 1 ) observers' prior belief that a target should be present and ( 2 ) observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts from a target bar . Our data suggest that brain areas beyond the primary visual cortex along the visual pathway are responsible for inferring object causes for input images .
When defectors appear in a population of cooperators due to mutation or migration , defectors should become more common because they exploit the resource provided by cooperators without making a fair contribution to its production . The environmental degradation caused by defectors eventually leads to population collapse , and should result in the extinction of cooperators and defectors alike . By explicitly tracking all individuals in a spatially-structured environment where they can migrate to different locations , we find that cooperation can survive due to under-appreciated consequences of defector-induced population collapse . Population collapse creates vacant territories which can support the growth of cooperator but not defector migrants . This leads to the counterintuitive result that cooperation sometimes survives better when defectors are initially present compared to when they are initially absent . When defectors are initially present , the emergence of mutants best adapted to defector-degraded environments can also promote cooperation . Thus , by reducing population size through physiological and evolutionary mechanisms , defectors create “built in” mechanisms that protect cooperation from defectors . This may help explain the near ubiquity of cooperation despite its inherent vulnerability .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that infects vulnerable patients , such as those with cystic fibrosis or hospitalized in intensive care units . An advance towards understanding infections caused by P . aeruginosa would be to fully elucidate the mechanisms that operate in the bacteria-epithelial barrier interplay . Here , we showed that P . aeruginosa exhibits a remarkable tropism towards dead cells . As bacteria interact with a polarized epithelium , they attach and aggregate almost exclusively on apoptotic cells extruded from the epithelium , while the rest of the surface seems reluctant to bacterial adhesion . We further showed that P . aeruginosa is internalized by epithelial cells surrounding the infected apoptotic cell through efferocytosis , a process in which apoptotic cells are engulfed and disposed of by other cells . Bacteria are eliminated intracellularly . Our findings may help to understand why contexts such as cystic fibrosis , where apoptotic cells are unusually produced and efferocytosis fails , favor P . aeruginosa colonization .
The molecular mechanisms underlying directed cell migration have been studied extensively in different biological contexts . Germ cell migration provides an effective model to study the dynamics of in vivo cell migration . The process of germ cell migration in Drosophila melanogaster results in embryonic gonad formation consisting of primordial germ cells ( PGCs ) and somatic gonadal precursor cells ( SGPs ) . Moreover , it likely involves a complex series of attractive and repulsive cues . Molecular and genetic analysis has been performed to elucidate the nature of the attractive cue ( s ) and components that guide germ cells to the SGPs in the mesoderm . One current model proposes that 3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl Coenzyme A reductase ( Hmgcr ) , synthesized in the SGPs , potentiates signaling downstream of Hedgehog ( Hh ) ligand also emanating from the SGPs . The model pivots on the novel activity of an established morphogen , Hedgehog , to function as a chemoattractant for the migrating germ cells . A variety of ‘loss-’ and ‘gain-of-function’ strategies manipulating different components of this signaling pathway have been successfully employed in support of the proposed model .
Unique HIV-infected individuals have remained healthy with stable CD4 counts and HIV RNA levels below the detection threshold in sensitive assays without antiretroviral therapy for 20 years . These nonprogressors have been intensively studied in order to identify mechanisms that could inform the design of an efficacious HIV/AIDS vaccine . In addition to strong associations with certain host genes like HLA B*57 , nonprogressors are distinguished from progressors by the superior ability of their HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells to proliferate and to efficiently kill HIV-infected CD4+ T-cell targets via perforin and granzyme B , the major proteins contained within killing granules . Here , for the first time , we apply sensitive measurements of CD8+ T-cell proliferation and perforin expression , granzyme B target cell activity and infected CD4+ T-cell elimination to samples derived from recipients of the Merck adenovirus serotype 5-HIV vaccine . We demonstrate readily detectable CD8+ T-cell-mediated killing in these vaccinees . Although the killing responses were less than those of nonprogressors , vaccinees expressing the protective HLA alleles B*27 , B*57 or B*58 exhibited greater killing than those not possessing these alleles . These findings suggest protective HLA alleles lead to better outcomes in both chronic infection and following immunization through early interactions that induce superior antiviral CD8+ T-cell killing responses .
A typical day in the life of almost any person involves the sharing of intentions . Such shared intentions range from the banal—‘we intend to meet for dinner’ , to the elegant—‘we intend to sing a duet’ , to those with far reaching consequences—‘we intend to form an alliance to defeat our mutual enemy’ . Recent research in developmental psychology suggests that humans’ especial proclivity to undertake jointly intentional behavior could be responsible for the uniqueness of human cognition . That is , humans do not only collaborate because we are smart , but are smart because we collaborate . Using recent advances in game theoretic modeling , we , for the first time , formally model the evolution of the ability to form shared intentions and show that this ability is likely to have evolved at a time when technological and cultural progress offered particularly high benefits to survival , such as might be the case during a period of significant environmental change .
The sustained production of functional motile sperm is critical for male fertility . In recent years , a dramatic increase of cases of male infertility were reported , with the most common cause represented by the production of morphologically abnormal spermatozoa with low motility . Several genetic and environmental factors have been proven to impact on sperm development . In particular , preliminary studies on samples from fertile and sterile individuals suggested that the deregulation of a class of small noncoding RNAs , called microRNAs , might be detrimental for sperm formation . To this end , we investigated the expression of Dicer , a core microRNA pathway component , in male germ cells and observed a peak of expression during meiosis . We performed a microRNA-expression screening and identified 5 members of the miR-34 family ( miR-34bc and miR-449abc ) as highly expressed from late meiosis to the sperm stage . Deletion of miR-34bc and miR-449 leads to sterility due to the production of abnormal spermatozoa with reduced motility . Thus our work proves for the first time the importance of a microRNA family in sperm formation and male fertility .
Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) has been used as a probiotic for over a century . However , it produces the genotoxin colibactin , which has been linked to the virulence of certain E . coli strains and could promote colorectal cancer . Administering a potentially pro-carcinogenic strain as a probiotic raises public health concerns . Therefore , our aim was to separate EcN genotoxic activity from its antagonistic effect , one of the most distinctive features of the probiotic property of EcN . We demonstrated that the microcin activity of EcN requires ClbP , an enzyme essential for colibactin production , and another enzyme involved in the synthesis of the siderophore salmochelin . This interplay was found in other E . coli strains , mainly isolated from urine . Therefore , E . coli strains utilize determinants from three distinct metabolic pathways to synthesize siderophore-microcins . Interestingly , the ClbP peptidase activity mandatory for colibactin production , has no role in siderophore-microcin activity , which provides a way to construct a non-genotoxic strain that retains its antibacterial activity . This intricate interplay between probiotic and pathogenic determinants confirms that biosynthetic pathways should be studied at the level of protein domains rather than that of whole proteins .
Cryptococcus neoformans , the leading cause of fungal meningitis , kills almost a quarter of a million people each year . Carbohydrate structures , including a complex polysaccharide capsule , enable this microbe to resist host defenses and cause disease . The machinery to build these structures is located inside of specific subcellular compartments . However , most of the reactions require as precursors activated sugar molecules that are made in the cell cytosol . To bring these compounds , called nucleotide sugars , to the site of synthesis , the cell expresses specific transporters . One precursor of particular interest is UDP-xylose , which is the donor of the sugar xylose for the synthesis of cryptococcal capsule , proteins , and lipids . We have identified two UDP-xylose transporters , the first discovered in a fungal organism , and characterized their biochemical properties and role in biology and infection . We found that although this pair of proteins shares biochemical functions , including additional transport of UDP-galactofuranose , the two transporters differ in terms of where they are in the cell , when they are expressed , and their transport properties . Cryptococcal cells lacking both proteins do not cause disease in mice , demonstrating the importance of this synthetic pathway . These findings elucidate fundamental biology as well as fungal pathogenesis .
There is growing interest in the scientific community , health ministries , and other organizations to control and eventually eliminate neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) . Control efforts require reliable maps of NTD distribution estimated from appropriate models and survey data on the number of infected people among those examined at a given location . This kind of data is often available in the literature as part of epidemiological studies . However , an open-access database compiling location-specific survey data does not yet exist . We address this problem through a systematic literature review , along with contacting ministries of health , and research institutions to obtain disease data , including details on diagnostic techniques , demographic characteristics of the surveyed individuals , and geographical coordinates . All data were entered into a database which is freely accessible via the Internet ( http://www . gntd . org ) . In contrast to similar efforts of the Global Atlas of Helminth Infections ( GAHI ) project , the survey data are not only displayed in form of maps but all information can be browsed , based on different search criteria , and downloaded as Excel files for further analyses . At the beginning of 2011 , the database included over 12 , 000 survey locations for schistosomiasis across Africa , and it is continuously updated to cover other NTDs globally .
Tuberculosis prevalence is high in areas that are endemic for helminths , suggesting that many people are chronically infected with both pathogens . As parasitic helminths can suppress the host immune system to facilitate their own survival , they frequently impact the host immune response to bystander antigens . Thus , while helminth infections ameliorate allergies and autoimmune diseases , they also decrease immune responses elicited by vaccines . Several studies have shown that helminth exposure impairs Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific immune responses , raising the possibility that helminth infections may decrease the host's ability to control M . tuberculosis infection . To test this , we analyzed whether chronic infection of cotton rats with the filarial worm Litomosoides sigmodontis exacerbates the course of M . tuberculosis infection . Cotton rats are an excellent model organism to study human M . tuberculosis as they develop , in contrast to mice , distinct granuloma formation during infection . In addition , cotton rats are the natural host for L . sigmodontis , a nematode that establishes long-lived infections ( >2 years ) with circulating microfilariae in these animals . The results of this study demonstrate that chronic filarial infection does not exacerbate M . tuberculosis-associated pathology or mycobacterial burdens in cotton rats and suggest that filaria-induced immunoregulation can be overcome to respond effectively to newly acquired infections .
Insects utilize diverse families of ion channels to respond to environmental cues and control mating , feeding , and the response to threats . Degenerin/epithelial sodium channels ( DEG/ENaC ) represent one of the largest families of ion channels in Drosophila melanogaster . However , the physiological functions of the majority of these proteins in Drosophila or any other animal are still unknown . We discovered that the DEG/ENaC channel ppk23 is expressed in a subpopulation of sexually dimorphic gustatory-like chemosensory neurons . We show that ppk23 and the neurons expressing it are important for normal male sexual behaviors , possibly via the detection of an aphrodisiac pheromone , but not for feeding decisions . Together , these data indicate that DEG/ENaC signaling plays an important role in the peripheral sensory system that determines sexual behavior in Drosophila .
Mitochondria are endosymbiotic organelles involved in diverse fundamental cellular processes . They contain their own genome that encodes a few but essential proteins ( e . g . proteins of the respiratory chain complexes ) . Their synthesis requires functional mitochondrial translational machinery that necessitates a full set of transfer RNAs ( tRNAs ) . As mitochondrial genomes of various organisms do not code for the complete set of tRNA genes , nucleus-encoded tRNAs have to be imported into mitochondria to compensate . Mitochondrial import of tRNAs is highly specific and tailored to the mitochondrial needs . Because transformation of the mitochondrial genome is possible in Chlamydomonas , we used this green alga as model to know if a fine regulation of the tRNA import process is possible so that the tRNA population can rapidly adapt to codon usage changes in mitochondria . Here we provide evidence that the regulation of tRNA mitochondrial import process is not dynamic but is rather the result of a co-evolutive process between the import and the mitochondrial codon bias in order to optimize the mitochondrial translation efficiency .
One in 10 individuals is affected by diabetes , a condition involving abnormal regulation of blood glucose . Currently , diabetes is assessed using single-time or average measurements of blood glucose , without consideration for how blood glucose fluctuates over time . We used continuous glucose monitoring ( CGM ) technology to evaluate how blood glucose fluctuates in individuals over time . We found that many individuals considered nondiabetic by standard measures , in fact , experienced frequent elevations in blood glucose levels into the impaired glucose-tolerant or diabetic range . We developed a model for determining the “glucotype” of an individual , a more comprehensive measure of the pattern of glucose excursions than the standard laboratory tests in current use . We also built a web tool for interactively visualizing an individual’s glucose profile and performing glucotype assessment . With greater adoption of CGM technology , glucotype assessment may become an important tool in early identification of those at risk for type 2 diabetes and/or cardiovascular disease .
Plant immunity must be tightly regulated , as over- or constitutive activation of plant defenses can cause detrimental effects , such as dwarf stature and enhanced cell death . EDR1 , a Raf-like mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase kinase , negatively regulates defenses in Arabidopsis . The highly conserved MAPK cascades modulate diverse biological processes , including plant immunity . However , whether EDR1 affects the regulation of one of the MAPK pathways was not previously known . Here , we show that EDR1 physically associates with MKK4 and MKK5 , two MAP kinase kinases , and negatively regulates the protein levels of MKK4 , MKK5 , MPK3 and MPK6 . We further show that edr1-mediated disease resistance requires MKK4 , MKK5 and MPK3 function . Over-expression of MKK4 or MKK5 in wild-type increased resistance to powdery mildew and caused mildew-induced cell death . Our study suggests that EDR1 negatively regulates defenses and directly modulates the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 cascade to fine-tune plant immunity .
Infectious diseases cause important health problems worldwide and create difficult challenges for public health policy makers . That is why they need reliable computational tools to better understand disease and to predict case counts . They will benefit from such computational tools to make more informed decisions in developing control and prevention strategies . We formulated a computational framework that can be used to model spatial , temporal , or spatiotemporal dynamics of infectious diseases . We showed the utility of our framework on the problem of modeling Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever in Turkey .
Rift Valley fever is a common vector-borne zoonotic disease that causes huge economic losses in Africa and the Middle East . The transmission and dispersal of the disease pathogen are affected by many factors , such as climatic , hydrologic and geographic influences , along with impacts from human activities and different forms of virus transmission via different vectors . In this work , we focus on identifying the potential risks that lead to disease outbreaks in Egypt along the Nile , from the South to the Nile Delta , by mathematically and numerically analyzing a patch model with temporal periodicity . We discover that human activities during the Eid al Adha feast , as well as climatic and hydrological variations , contribute to the transmission and dispersal of the disease . Interestingly , periodic co-occurrence of the religious festival and the onset of peaks in mosquito abundance , each with a different periodicity , is predicted to lead to periodic large scale disease outbreaks .
Zoonotic diseases , such as anthrax , represent a threat to public and veterinary health in many developing parts of the world . Control of anthrax is dependent upon several factors , including proper management of outbreaks and livestock vaccination . Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union , resources for disease management in Azerbaijan were dramatically diminished leading to increases in zoonotic diseases . In this study , our objective was to analyze human anthrax incidence during Soviet governance , post-Soviet governance , and after the implementation of a preemptive livestock vaccination campaign to identify potential changes in the occurrence of the disease . We applied spatial and temporal statistical approaches in a geographic information system to describe changes . Our findings provide evidence of a changing incidence and a shift in the geographic patterns of human anthrax . These findings highlight the importance of proper livestock disease management to mitigate human disease and the need for dynamic surveillance that takes into account changes in the distribution of disease .
Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) are natural components of the lipid bilayer in e . g . heart and nerve cells . Despite occurring at low concentrations , PUFA effects on membrane proteins can be quite dramatic . For instance , PUFA molecules have been shown to modulate voltage-gated K+ channels and are used in dietary treatments of epilepsy . The effects of PUFA-channel interactions have been postulated to involve opening of K+ channels , but the molecular mechanism remains unknown . Our molecular dynamics simulations of the Shaker K+ channel embedded into a PUFA-enriched membrane propose specific molecular PUFA-channel interactions . A PUFA binding site was determined that enabled specific interactions of both the negatively charged PUFA head groups and the lipophilic carbon tails . The proposed location of a PUFA binding site suggest amino acid residue targets for experimental mutational analyses and can potentially be valuable to the design of antiepileptic drugs targeting ion channels .
Persistent diarrhea is a leading cause of illness and death among impoverished children , and a growing share of this disease burden can be attributed to the parasite Cryptosporidium . There are no vaccines to prevent Cryptosporidium infection , and the treatment options are limited and unreliable . Critically , no effective treatment exists for children or adults suffering from AIDS . Cryptosporidium presents many technical obstacles for drug discovery; perhaps the most important roadblock is the difficulty of monitoring drug action . Here we have developed a set of methods to accelerate the drug discovery process for cryptosporidiosis . We exploit the opportunities for experimental manipulation in the related parasite Toxoplasma to genetically engineer a Cryptosporidium model . This new model parasite mirrors the metabolism of Cryptosporidium for a particularly promising drug target that supplies the building blocks for DNA and RNA . Drug effectiveness can be assayed through simple fluorescence measurements for many candidates . Using this assay as an initial filter , and adapting other assays to a high throughput format , we identify several novel chemical compounds that exhibit markedly improved anti-cryptosporidial activity and excellent selectivity .
Genome-wide association studies have been used to identify genetic variants conferring susceptibility to diseases , intermediate phenotypes , and physiological traits such as height , hair color , and age at menarche . Here we analyze the NFBC1966 and ALSPAC birth cohorts to investigate the genetic determinants of a key developmental process: primary tooth development . The prospective nature of our studies allows us to exploit accurate measurements of age at first tooth eruption and number of teeth at one year , and also provides the opportunity to assess whether genetic variants affecting these traits are associated with dental problems later in the life course . Of the genes that we find to be associated with primary tooth development , several have established roles in tooth development and growth , and almost half have proposed links with the development of cancer . We find that one of the variants is also associated with occlusion defects requiring orthodontic treatment later in life . Our findings should provide a strong foundation for the study of the genetic architecture of tooth development , which as well as its relevance to medicine and dentistry , may have implications in evolutionary biology since teeth represent important markers of evolution .
Down syndrome is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disabilities , and marked hypotonia is among the constant diagnostic traits . Here we observe the opposite changes in locomotion , muscle strength , and energetic balance in new mouse models of DS and M21 for the Hspa13-App proximal region of human chromosome 21 . The differential expression analysis revealed downregulation of skeletal muscle genes controlling energetic metabolism , mitochondrial activity , and biogenesis in Ts3Yah , while upregulation of similar set of genes was found in Ms3Yah mice . This phenomenon correlates with the changes in mitochondrial proliferation with increased membrane permeability of Ts3Yah mitochondria and decreased mitochondrial ROS production in Ms3Yah mice . Our results demonstrate the opposite phenotypic effect of trisomy and monosomy of the Hspa13-App syntenic region of human chromosome 21 , highlighting new physiological mechanisms for hypotonia in DS individuals .
Many neurotransmitters and hormones inhibit the electric activity of excitable cells ( such as cardiac cells and neurons ) by activating a K+ channel , GIRK ( G protein-gated Inwardly Rectifying K+ channel ) . GIRK channels also possess constitutive “basal” activity which contributes to regulation of neuronal and cardiac excitability and certain disorders , but the mechanism of this activity and its interrelation with the neurotransmitter-evoked activity are poorly understood . In this work we show that key features of basal and neurotransmitter-evoked activities are similar in cultured hippocampal neurons and in two model systems ( mammalian HEK293 cells and Xenopus oocytes ) . Using experimental data of the neuronal GIRK1/2 channel function upon changes in GIRK and G protein concentrations , we constructed a mathematical model that quantitatively accounts for basal and evoked activity , and for the inverse correlation between the two . Our analysis suggests a novel and unexpected mechanism of interaction of GIRK1/2 with the G protein subunits , where the tetrameric GIRK channel can assemble with 4 molecules of the Gβγ subunits but only 2 molecules of Gα . GIRK is a prototypical effector of Gβγ , and the unequal stoichiometry of interaction with G protein subunits may have general implications for G protein signaling .
Diseases caused by plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria are a serious threat for many important crop plants including rice . Efficiently protecting plants from these pathogens requires a deeper understanding of infection strategies . For many Xanthomonas strains , such infection strategies depend on a special class of effector proteins , termed transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) . TALEs may specifically activate genes of the host plant and , by this means , re-program the plant cell for the benefit of the pathogen . Target sequences and , consequently , target genes of a specific TALE may be predicted computationally from its amino acids . Here , we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction that makes use of several insights into TALE biology but also of broad experimental data gained over the last years . We demonstrate that this approach yields a higher prediction accuracy than previous approaches . We further postulate that a strategy change from a restricted search only considering promoters of annotated genes to a broad genome-wide search is feasible and yields novel targets including previously neglected protein-coding genes but also non-coding RNAs of possibly regulatory function .
The mitochondrion is an organelle floating in the cytoplasm of almost all eukaryotic cells . Its primary function is to generate energy . It contains an independent DNA ( mtDNA ) , which is inherited maternally in many organisms . This DNA is highly susceptible to mutations since it does not possess the robust DNA repair mechanisms proper of the nuclear DNA . Mutations in the mtDNA were associated to several inherited and acquired mitochondrial diseases , including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases , and cancer . The assessment of the mutation-disease causal link is an onerous task . It requires important laboratory skills/equipment and , often , an animal facility , which are not always available to any laboratory altogether . More and more often , one falls back on software solutions that rely on structural and functional characteristics of proteins to predict the putative harmfulness of a mutation . Many have been implemented and tested on the nuclear proteins , but only a few were finely tuned to the “neglected genome” . Our work not only presents APOGEE , a machine-learning-based predictor that outperforms all existing predictors in reliability and sensitivity , but it makes freely available the APOGEE’s predictions for all the mitochondrial missense mutations in MitImpact .
Over the past 50 years , dengue has been a continuing global threat , with no effective vaccine or specific antiviral drug . Dengue infection causes a wide range of outcomes , from fever-like symptoms to severe dengue hemorrhagic fever . Thrombocytopenia , a reduction in platelet count , is a common feature observed in both mild and severe dengue and is correlated with disease severity . In this study , we used dengue viral supernatant or DENV recombinant NS1 protein to stimulate human-isolated platelets . We found that DENV NS1 could directly activate platelets through TLR4 and could further enhance platelet aggregation , adhesion to endothelial cells and phagocytosis by macrophages , which could lead to thrombocytopenia . We also proved that both NS1 and TLR4 are critical for DENV-induced thrombocytopenia and hemorrhage using a DENV-induced hemorrhagic mouse model . Our study reveals a new pathogenic role of NS1 during dengue infection and highlights that NS1 should be a topic of attention in the development of therapeutic drugs and vaccines against dengue infection .
The efficiency and resilience of our body are guaranteed by the presence of myriads of dynamic control loops that regulate fundamental vital functions . In this work , we studied the regulatory mechanisms that govern the interplay of vasoconstriction/vasodilation , blood volume and mean arterial pressure . We analysed the loops in the system and showed the presence of two coexisting mechanisms for blood pressure regulation , which perform the same qualitative function , conferring robustness to the system: one mechanism tunes vasoconstriction , the other blood volume . We showed that both systems are candidate oscillators: either they are stable or they oscillate regularly around their unique equilibrium . We analysed a subsystem that describes the stimulation of vascular smooth muscle cells due to the hormones arginine vasopressin ( AVP ) and atrial natriuretic peptide ( ANP ) : also this system is a candidate oscillator ruled by multiple negative-feedback loops , and its potential for oscillations is higher when all the loops have similar delay . Our results cast light on the fundamental physiological phenomena that preserve the stable functioning of blood pressure and volume . This could have even wider relevance if other homeostasis and endocrine systems displayed similar features , with repercussions on the management of adverse homeostasis shifts like hypertension .
To restrict the loss of blood following rupture of blood vessels , the human body rapidly forms a clot consisting mainly of platelets and fibrin . However , to prevent formation of a pathological clot within vessels ( thrombus ) as a result of vessel damage or dysfunction , the response must be regulated , and clot formation must be limited . Our previous studies demonstrated that as a laser-induced thrombus stabilized in mice , the ratio of fibrin to platelets at the thrombus surface increased significantly . Stabilized non-occluding thrombi were observed to be covered by a fibrin network ( ‘fibrin cap’ ) . In the present work the role of the fibrin network in protein transport is examined by integrating experiments in microfluidic devices with the hemodynamic thrombus model . The study reveals permeability of the fibrin network and protein diffusivity to be important factors determining the transport of blood proteins inside the thrombus . It is shown that the fibrin network does not dramatically limit the diffusion of thrombin but impairs flowing platelets in blood from reaching regions of high thrombin concentration thus , reducing the probability they are activated and stably integrated into the thrombus . This novel , counter-intuitive mechanism suggests that a fibrin network formed at early stages of thrombus initiation can prevent normally asymptomatic thrombi from developing into pathological clots .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) is the cause of tuberculosis , a leading cause of sickness and death worldwide . Although much is known about CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses to Mtb , the role of other T cell subsets is poorly understood . Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells are innate lymphocytes that express a semi-invariant T cell receptor and recognize lipid antigens presented by CD1d . Although iNKT cells participate in the immune response to many different pathogens , little is known about how iNKT cells directly kill microbes . We previously showed that when co-cultured with Mtb-infected macrophages , iNKT cells inhibit intracellular Mtb replication . Now , we used this model to dissociate the signals that induce iNKT cell activation markers including IFNγ production , from the signals that activate iNKT cell antimicrobial activity . This allowed us to uncover a novel antimicrobial effector function produced by iNKT cells: GM-CSF . GM-CSF is essential for immunity to Mtb , but its role has never been defined . This study is the first report to demonstrate a protective function of GM-CSF production by any T cell subset during Mtb infection . T cell production of GM-CSF should be considered as a potential mechanism of antimicrobial immunity .
Although the fungus Candida albicans commonly colonizes the human gastrointestinal tract as a commensal , the organism is also an opportunistic pathogen , responsible for a wide range of infections in immunocompromised persons . While numerous studies of infection have been conducted , few studies have analyzed the commensal state . The studies described here analyze C . albicans cells colonizing the intestinal tract of immunocompetent mice in the absence of disease , a model for commensalism . Results showed that expression of the putative transcription factor Efh1p by cells colonizing the intestinal tract was relatively high , but paradoxically , expression of Efh1p was associated with lower colonization . Efh1p had no detectable effect on the ability of C . albicans to cause lethal disseminated infection in mice . In contrast , Rbt1p and Rbt4p , two proteins of poorly defined function required for normal disseminated infection , were not required for intestinal colonization . These results argue that the commensal state is distinct from the pathogenic state and that different factors are important in different states . Also , the regulation of expression of genes RBT1 , RBT4 , and ECE1 during intestinal colonization differed from their well-characterized regulation during laboratory growth . Further studies of commensal colonization are needed to understand this important stage of C . albicans biology .
Malaria causes the deaths of 0 . 5–2 million people each year , mainly in Africa . A safe and effective vaccine is likely needed for the control or eradication of this disease . It has been shown that if people are bitten by malaria-infected mosquitoes that have been irradiated they are protected against fully infectious bites . Radiation makes the parasites in the mosquito ( called sporozoites ) incapable of dividing; however , the irradiated parasites are still capable of stimulating the immune system to provide protection against fully infectious parasites . Many trial vaccines are based on trying to simulate the immune response induced by irradiated sporozoites in a safe and cost-effective way . We want to know how sporozoites are able to efficiently induce immune responses . We found that sprozoite molecules are retained by the immune system for months after immunization . These molecules continue to stimulate the cells of the immune system such that they divide more and thus probably protect better . The ability of the immune system to retain parasite material long after the parasites themselves have disappeared is remarkable and gives new insights into how effective immune responses can be generated by vaccines .
Cutaneous leishmaniasis form disfiguring lesions that leads to depression and social isolation . Both consequences result often in economic and education loss for communities already short on resources . The actual treatment aims to eliminate the protozoa disease-vector . Yet , it presents undesired effects or parasite resistance , besides the need for intravenous infusions and hospitalization . There is a few topical leishmanicidals but none with prolonged action . As highlighted , no ideal therapy exists; we must keep searching for alternatives , which includes new drugs , vehicles or therapies . For drugs , the most cost-effective way comprises testing approved molecules for other diseases , such as the antimicrobial polymyxin B ( polB ) . Repositioning a drug has the added benefit of known safety profile and drawbacks , shortening and narrowing the research path . In turn , carriers can decrease side-effects and multiple dosing . They shield and/or improve drug targeting , which in this case means delivering inside macrophages infected with Leishmania . An example is poly ( n-butyl cyanoacrylate ) nanoparticles ( PBCAnp ) , shown as an efficient carrier for targeting an extended drug release . Therefore , this work aimed to evaluate leishmanicidal and adjuvant properties of polB , alone and absorbed onto PBCAnp .
The visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a disease potentially fatal if not diagnosed and treated opportunely . This article presents the results of the study on the manifestations identified at the time of the clinical suspicion of the VL cases . This study was conducted in Belo Horizonte , the capital of the State of Minas Gerais , located in southeastern Brazil . This study is both timely and substantive because the Belo Horizonte is an area of transmission of VL , with one of the highest VL-death proportions of Brazil . The patients with higher risk of death had at least one of the following characteristics: ≥60 years , weakness , HIV co-infection , bleeding , jaundice and other associated infections . During the period 2002–2009 , 8% to 22% of the patients with VL progressed to death in Belo Horizonte , whilst the proportion in the country was much lower and varied between 5% and 9% . This study has identified vulnerable patients who are at higher risk of death from VL and who would benefit from early predictive evaluation of the prognostic . Hence , the knowledge regarding the factors associated with death may contribute for clinical management and for reduction of deaths from VL .
Plants need to adapt to their ever-changing environment for survival . Transmembrane receptor kinases are essential to translate extracellular stimuli into intracellular responses . A key question is how plants maintain signaling specificity in response to multiple stresses and endogenous hormones . Growth responses induced by steroid hormones and innate immunity triggered by recognition of conserved microbial molecules depend on the common regulatory receptor-like kinase BAK1 , which is also involved in cell death control . It is still unclear if BAK1 provides signaling specificity or if it is a mere signaling enhancer . Here , we describe the novel protein variant BAK1-5 that specifically blocks innate immune responses without affecting steroid responses or cell death . This unambiguously demonstrates that the role of BAK1 in plant signaling can be mechanistically separated . Importantly , the impairment of immune signaling is not caused by a loss of interaction of BAK1-5 with immune receptors but is due to an altered kinase activity . Thus , BAK1-dependent signaling pathways are under a differential phosphorylation-dependent regulation . The examination of this novel mutant version of BAK1 will enable detailed studies into the mechanistic role of BAK1 in plant innate immunity , but also more generally will provide invaluable insights into transmembrane receptor signaling specificity in plants .
The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent effects in all cell cycle phases , where molecular control pathways ( checkpoints ) are activated and cells may be arrested to repair DNA damage or killed if not able to succeed in the repair process . The complexity and inter-cell variability of these phenomena are not captured by the available methods , and the origin of the dose-dependence of the response remains elusive . In this work , we present an experimental-computational method that discloses and measures the individual responses of cell cycle controls in each phase and generation . We demonstrate that the method , exploiting jointly data sets obtained by flow cytometry and time-lapse in vivo imaging with a suitable experimental design , is able to achieve a full reconstruction in silico of the actual movement of cell cohorts following X-ray exposure , providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1 , S and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations . Best fit parameters values are actual measures of the probability of activation of the specific pathways of arrest , repair or death within the cell population , linking the molecular scale to the “macroscopic” response , with full appreciation of its dynamics and inter-cell heterogeneity .
Coenzyme Q is a critical component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain , the process by which cells make energy . Coenzyme Q deficiency in humans causes a wide range of disease manifestations affecting the nervous system , muscles , and kidneys . Here , we show that the failure to make Coenzyme Q due to a Pdss2 mutation is the cause of a lethal kidney disease in mice that was previously thought to result from an autoimmune process . Studying both a spontaneously occurring missense mutant and a series of mutants generated to have the Coenzyme Q deficiency targeted solely to liver , kidney , or macrophages , we show that the specific cell type in which the kidney disease arises is the glomerular podocyte . No other manifestations of disease are evident in these animals . However , our analysis of livers from these mice reveals that they have significant depletion of Coenzyme Q , impairment of mitochondrial respiratory chain function , and disturbance of many other basic metabolic processes . Similar microarray patterns of cellular alterations to primary mitochondrial dysfunction were seen both in these mice and in a previously reported nematode model , suggesting that a common cellular profile of primary respiratory chain function may exist across evolution .
It is widely believed that development plays an important role in the phenotypic robustness of organisms to environmental and genetic perturbations . But , the developmental process and cell fate are largely predetermined and fixed in some species , including for example mollusks , annelids , tunicates , and nematodes . How these organisms deal with perturbations that cause cell deaths in ontogenesis has been a long-standing puzzle . We propose and demonstrate that the developmental cell lineages of these species are structured such that the resulting cellular compositions of the organisms are only moderately affected by cell deaths . A series of highly nonrandom features of the cell lineages underlie their developmental robustness and these features likely originated as adaptations in the face of various disturbances during development . Our findings reveal important organizing principles of determinative developmental cell lineages and a conceptually new mechanism of phenotypic robustness , which have broad implications for development and evolution .
Phenomics is the collection of high-dimensional phenotypic data on an organism-wide scale , and it requires high-throughput technologies . However , a lack of technologies for efficiently visualising and measuring whole-organism responses to different environments represents a serious challenge for biologists . This challenge is most apparent when studying complex responses , such as those occurring during the dynamic period of embryonic development , when the phenotype changes markedly through time . Here , we present EmbryoPhenomics ( www . embryophenomics . org ) , a new open-source technological platform comprising high-throughput bioimaging hardware that produces high-resolution video of multiple , developing embryos maintained under controlled environmental conditions and software for automatically quantifying embryo responses from these videos . We demonstrate the broad applicability of EmbryoPhenomics using four experiments assessing responses to global change ( elevated temperature and salinity ) in which we generate data for more than 600 embryos produced from video comprising more than 30 million images . EmbryoPhenomics was used to capture functional , temporal , and spatial change in morphological , physiological , and behavioural responses in the earliest , most dynamic life stages and addresses a serious bottleneck in biology . Such capabilities are urgently required , particularly within the context of assessing the response of embryos to the current unprecedented rates of global environmental change .
Malaria kills almost half a million people worldwide every year and more than two hundred million people are diagnosed with this deadly disease annually . It is caused by the protozoan parasite Plasmodium spp . , mostly in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia and is transmitted by bites of infected female Anopheles mosquitoes . Due to an increase in resistance to existing drugs and lack of an effective vaccine , new intervention strategies which target development of parasite in human host and transmission through the mosquito vector are urgently needed . In this study , we explored the metabolic capacity of different developmental stages of the malaria parasite to determine carbon source utilization in different host niches and whether any stage-specific switches in metabolism could be exploited in new therapies aimed at eradicating malaria . Using stable isotope labelling and metabolomics , we have identified considerable nutritional adaptability of malaria parasites between the mammalian host and the mosquito vector . Gene disruption in the rodent malaria parasite P . berghei was used to identify the metabolic pathways which are crucial to the survival and development of the parasite . Our data also point at key metabolic differences in different Plasmodium species highlighting the importance of integrating metabolomics analyses with molecular tools and identifies possible transmission blocking candidates for malaria intervention .
From circadian clocks to ultradian rhythms , oscillatory signals are found ubiquitously in nature . These oscillations are crucial in the regulation of cellular processes . While the fundamental design principles underlying the generation of these oscillations are extensively studied , the mechanisms for decoding these signals are underappreciated . With implications in both the basic understanding of how cells process temporal signals and the design of synthetic systems , we use quantitative modeling to probe one mechanism , the counting of pulses . We demonstrate the capability of an Incoherent Feedforward Loop motif for the differentiation between sustained and oscillatory input signals .
Scrub typhus is a serious , neglected tropical disease that is endemic in large parts of Asia and northern Australia . It is caused by the bacterium O . tsutsugamushi , which is maintained in Leptotrombiculid mites , small arthropods that occasionally bite humans and transmit the disease . O . tsutsugamushi is an obligate intracellular bacterium , which means that it can only survive and grow when it is physically enclosed within a cell , both when it is living in its vector mite , and when it is living in the human or other mammalian host . This makes it difficult to work with in the laboratory , as it needs to be cultured together with host cells . This technical difficulty is one reason why our understanding of this human pathogen is less well-developed than for many other pathogens of equivalent incidence and severity . Here , we have performed a body of work that was designed to measure and improve methods for growing these bacteria in the laboratory , purifying the bacteria from their host cells without damaging them , and preserving bacteria for long periods of time by cryopreservation . This work will support future efforts to understand the basic science behind this and similar intracellular human pathogens .
Urogenital schistosomiasis is an important , but neglected , infectious disease affecting over 100 million people , mainly in Africa . Children carry the heaviest burden of infection with children as young as 1 year old showing signs of infection . Children aged 5 years and below are currently excluded from schistosome control programmes for several reasons , including operational difficulties associated with accessing preschool children , misconceptions about their level of exposure to infective water and lack of safety data on the drug of choice for schistosome control , praziquantel , in children aged 5 years and below . This study was one of a small number of studies recently funded by the World Health Organization to investigate the need for praziquantel treatment in preschool children ( aged 1–5 years ) and to subsequently assess the safety and efficacy of the drug praziquantel in this age group . This study confirmed that preschool children carry significant levels of schistosome infection , exceeding those carried by their parents/guardians , highlighting the urgent need for their immediate inclusion in schistosome control programmes . The study also showed that praziquantel treatment is as safe and efficacious in children aged 1–5 years as it is in older children aged 6–10 years who are currently the target for mass drug administration .
Cancer involves the cooperative interaction of many gene mutations . The Ras signaling pathway is upregulated in many human cancers , but upregulated Ras signaling alone is not sufficient to induce malignant tumors . We have undertaken a genome-wide genetic screen using a transgenic RNAi library in the vinegar fly , Drosophila melanogaster , to identify tumor suppressor genes that cooperate with the Ras oncogene ( RasV12 ) in conferring overgrown invasive tumors . We stratified the hits by analyzing the expression of human orthologs of these genes in human epithelial cancers , revealing genes that were strongly downregulated in human cancer . By conducting secondary genetic interaction tests , we validated 80 of the top 100 genes . Pathway analysis of these genes revealed that 55 fell into known pathways involved in human cancer , whereas 25 were unique genes . We then confirmed the tumor suppressor properties of one of these genes , Tsp29Fb , encoding a Tetraspanin membrane protein , and showed that Tsp29Fb functions as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting Ras signaling and by maintaining epithelial cell polarity . Altogether , our study has revealed novel Ras-cooperating tumor suppressors in Drosophila and suggests that these genes may also be involved in human cancer .
Killer meiotic drivers are selfish genes that cause infertility by destroying the gametes ( e . g . sperm ) that do not inherit them . This allows them to be transmitted into up to 100% of the surviving gametes . Because of the significant fitness cost that these killer meiotic drivers impose to the organism , suppressors of drive are expected to evolve . We and others recently discovered that members of the wtf gene family in natural isolates of fission yeast are killer meiotic drivers . These genes generate a poison to kill gametes , but rescue those that inherit the driver with an antidote . In this work , we discovered that an additional wtf gene , wtf13 found in intensely studied lab strains is also a meiotic driver . This driver is only capable of driving in the absence of another wtf gene , wtf18-2 , which works by mimicking the antidote of wtf13 . By protecting only the spores that inherit the gene , wtf18-2 selfishly gains a transmission advantage of its own , establishing a novel paradigm for drive suppressors .
Variation in gene expression across different individuals has been found to play a role in susceptibility to different diseases . In addition , many genetic variants that are linked to changes in expression have been found to date . However , their joint ability to accurately predict these changes is not well understood and has rarely been evaluated . Here , we devise a method that uses multiple genetic variants to explain the variation in expression of genes across individuals . One important aspect of our method is its robustness , in that our predictions agree well between training and test sets . Thus , although the number of genes that could be explained is relatively small , the identity and quantitative degree to which genes can be predicted is known in advance . We also present an extension to our method that integrates different genomic annotations such as location of the genetic variant or its context to differentially weigh the genetic variants in our model and improve predictions . Finally , genes that are successfully predicted have , on average , higher expression and more variability across individuals , providing insight into the characteristics of the types of genes that can be predicted by our method .
Malaria infections often consist of more than one strain of the same parasitic species . Understanding the within-host competition between these various strains is essential to understanding the evolution and epidemiology of drug resistance in malarial infections . The infection process and the competition between strains involve complicated biological processes that are explained by various hypotheses . Mathematical models tested against experimental data provide quantitative measures to compare these hypotheses and enable us to discern the actual biological processes that contribute to the observed dynamics . We use a group of models against experimental data on rodent malaria to test various hypotheses . Such quantitative measures , in understanding rodent malaria , can be considered as a step towards understanding within-host parasite dynamics . Our work presented here demonstrates how confronting mathematical models with data allows the discovery of subtle and novel interactions between hosts and parasites that would be impractical to do in an experiment and allows the rejection of hypotheses that are incorrect . It is our contention that understanding the forces controlling within-host parasite dynamics in well-defined experimental model is a necessary step towards understanding these features in natural infections .
Chromosomal aberration such as gene amplification is a common event in human diseases and is often selected during adaptation of microorganism to stress . We proposed a replication-based model to explain the formation of a particular type of genomic aberration: internal inverted DNA amplification with retention of the distal end of the chromosome . In this study , using yeast as a model , we test the feasibility of several of these steps for the formation of an inverted amplification: a specific DNA replication anomaly ( 1 ) leading to the formation of a palindromic extrachromosomal circular molecule ( 2 ) followed by the homologous reintegration of this molecule into the genome ( 3 ) . A significant feature of this mode of amplification is that the amplified sequences contain one or more replication origins . The instability of the inverted junctions can lead , through homology driven processes , to more complex genomic structures that contain a partial triplication within a duplicated segment , a structure commonly found associated with human disease .
When viruses such as influenza infect cells , both host and viral mRNAs are translated into proteins . Here we investigate the sites in these mRNAs that initiate protein translation during influenza infection . In particular , we explore whether some of this translation initiates at codons other than the canonical ones used to produce the primary protein product of each gene . Using computational analyses , we find that mammalian influenza viruses evolve to reduce the number of codons that can initiate such alternate translation initiation products . We next use the comprehensive experimental strategy of ribosome profiling to identify sites of translation initiation across all influenza and host mRNAs . We find a number of sites of alternate initiation on both influenza and host mRNAs . We study in detail one such alternate start site on an influenza mRNA , and show that it encodes a functional and previously uncharacterized variant of a viral protein . We also find evidence that the mRNAs that host cells express at higher levels during viral infection are enriched for translation initiation at non-canonical start codons . Overall , these results suggest that alternate translation initiation plays a role in shaping the repertoires of both viral and host proteins that are produced during influenza infection .
The nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells ( NF-κB ) transcription factor complex plays an essential role in regulating the immune response to infection . Bacterial pathogens inject effector proteins into host cells to modulate the host innate immune response by interfering with NF-κB activation . We have discovered that Escherichia coli O157:H7 , an important cause of hemorrhagic colitis , injects into mammalian cells an effector protein termed NleH1 , which inhibits NF-κB-dependent transcription through a novel mechanism . NleH1 binds directly to a subunit of NF-κB , the ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ) . One of the functions of RPS3 is to guide the recruitment of the p65 NF-κB subunit to specific promoters in response to different stimuli . NleH1 , but not a closely related effector , NleH2 , functions by reducing the nuclear abundance of RPS3 to dampen host transcriptional outputs . Our findings highlight a previously unappreciated mechanism by which bacterial effector proteins are able to alter host cell functions .
Transcription factor ( TF ) protein binding to its DNA target sequences is a fundamental physical interaction underlying gene regulation . Characterizing the binding specificities of TFs is essential for deducing which genes are regulated by which TFs . Recently , several high-throughput methods that measure sequences enriched for TF targets genomewide were developed . Since TFs recognize relatively short sequences , much effort has been directed at developing computational methods that identify enriched subsequences ( motifs ) from these sequences . However , little effort has been directed towards improving the representation of motifs . Practically , available motif finding software use the position specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ) model , which assumes independence between different motif positions . We present an alternative , richer model , called the feature motif model ( FMM ) , that enables the representation of a variety of sequence features and captures dependencies that exist between binding site positions . We show how FMMs explain TF binding data better than PSSMs on both synthetic and real data . We also present a motif finder algorithm that learns FMM motifs from unaligned promoter sequences and show how de novo FMMs , learned from binding data of the human TFs c-Myc and CTCF , reveal intriguing insights about their binding specificities .
Adrenergic α2C receptor ( ADRA2C ) is a regulator of the fight-or-flight response . It has been shown in mice that repression of this gene can result in relevant physiological and behavioral alterations . A strong selection signature in the genomes of domesticated chickens has been reported for this gene , suggesting that less aggression toward humans has been positively selected during chicken domestication . In this work , we analyze the genomes , transcriptomes , and epigenomes of a large number of humans and chimpanzees along with those of other primates to propose that repression of this gene has been positively selected in the evolution of humans and chimpanzees .
C4 photosynthesis is one of the most successful and widespread examples of convergent evolution; the first C4 plant evolved long after the extinction of the dinosaurs , yet C4 species now account for ∼30% of primary productivity on earth . Compared with ancestral C3 photosynthesis , the C4 pathway allows faster rates of growth , and thus international efforts have been mustered to introduce advantageous C4 traits into important C3 crops to increase their yield . However , the transition from C3 to C4 involves complex alterations to leaf anatomy and biochemistry . Despite these multiple changes , C4 photosynthesis has evolved independently at least 60 times . Through DNA and RNA sequencing we are beginning define a catalog of genes associated with C3 or C4 photosynthesis . However , we know little about how these genes act co-ordinately to bring about the convergent C4 phenotype . In this work we develop a new informatics framework to reveal that two independent lineages of C4 plants have co-opted the same regulators of gene expression to generate the C4 leaf . Our findings provide a new paradigm for investigating the genetics of convergent traits and the origin of convergent phenotypes . Moreover , they reveal significant new insight into the regulatory mechanisms governing the origins of C4 photosynthesis .
An unprecedented Ebola outbreak occurred in 2013–2016 in West Africa . In order to better understand EBOV infection patterns in different body compartments , we have longitudinally explored the presence of already assessed markers of ongoing EBOV replication ( negative sense genomic RNA and positive sense RNA ) in the upper and lower respiratory tract , as compared to plasma and other body compartments , in a Health Care Worker infected with EBOV in Sierra Leone , who was hospitalized in the high isolation facility of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases “Lazzaro Spallanzani” ( INMI ) , Rome , Italy . The presence of total EBOV RNA and replication markers was observed in specimens of the lower respiratory tract , even after viral clearance from plasma , suggesting possible local replication . Our results contribute to the knowledge on the biological features of EBOV and shed light on the potential role of respiratory compartment in human-to-human transmissibility .
Machupo virus ( MACV ) , a member of Arenaviridae family , causes Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ) in humans . No approved vaccine or treatment are available to date despite the high case fatality rate of BHF . rMACV/Cd#1-GPC is fully attenuated and protects mice from lethal MACV challenge . Although one virulence determinant was found in the transmembrane domain of GPC ( F438 ) , other virulence determinants in GPC are very likely . Our new data indicated that the ectodomain of Cd#1 GPC is necessary , but not sufficient , for complete attenuation of the rMACV/Cd#1-GPC . This new finding may help generate highly attenuated MACVs for vaccine development and/or for drug screening purpose .
The centromeric histone protein , CENH3 , plays an important role in chromosome segregation during mitosis and meiosis . Here we show that single amino acid changes in CENH3 , while producing no obvious effect on mitosis or meiosis , affect segregation postzygotically upon outcrossing to plants carrying wild-type centromeres . This results in uniparental inheritance among some progeny , and seed death in a larger fraction of progeny . Interestingly , changes competent to induce haploid in Arabidopsis existed in a TILLING population and in unrelated plant species . Our findings have two major consequences . First , uniparental inheritance facilitates the production of haploid plants that can easily be doubled to produce completely homozygous lines in a single generation . Secondly , our findings suggest that natural variation in CENH3 may result in partial reproductive isolation , because chromosomes of the mutant parent from F1 hybrid progeny are culled during embryonic development , while no reproductive defects are observed in self-pollinated plants . We do not know if the same mutations are haploid-inducing in other species , but uniparental chromosome loss , and the seed abortion that accompanies it results in an outcrossing-specific penalty that could potentially be involved in reproductive isolation .
The reprogramming of pluripotent stem cells from adult cells is a crucial step toward producing patient-specific cells for transplant therapy . Critical to this goal is the ability to reproducibly drive the differentiation of these cells to specific fates , such as cardiac and neural cells . While gene expression is important in tissue specific differentiation , the impact of alternative splicing on the biology of differentiating cells has not been fully realized . To identify specific splicing events that may determine cell-type-specific differentiation , we compared splicing profiles of human embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) and derived cardiac and neural precursors using Affymetrix exon tiling arrays . Segregation of splicing profiles into cardiac-restricted and common cardiac/neural differentiation pattern groups revealed unique groups of genes with clear implications for the biology of cardiomyocyte function and the maintenance of pluripotent ESCs . Alternative splicing of many of these genes , notably regulators of cell death and proliferation , were often predicted to impact protein domain or microRNA binding site inclusion , suggesting that the function or expression of these proteins is altered during differentiation . These results provide further evidence that alternative splicing is important in shaping the functional repertoire of ESCs and differentiated cells .
Trehalose biosynthesis is considered an attractive target for the development of new drugs against various microbial pathogens including Mycobacterium tuberculosis . In this human pathogen , two partially redundant pathways mediate trehalose biosynthesis . The OtsA-OtsB2 pathway , which dominates in culture , involves trehalose-6-phosphate ( T6P ) synthase OtsA and T6P phosphatase OtsB2 . While OtsA is dispensable , OtsB2 is strictly essential for growth of M . tuberculosis . Using conditional gene silencing , we here show that essentiality of OtsB2 is linked to accumulation of its substrate T6P , which exhibits direct or indirect toxic effects . Regulated gene expression in vivo revealed that OtsB2 is required to establish an acute infection of M . tuberculosis in a mouse infection model , but is surprisingly fully dispensable during the chronic infection phase . This highlights that trehalose metabolism of M . tuberculosis is substantially remodelled during infection .
There is an urgent need for the development of better drug therapies for tropical diseases , including Chagas' disease , sleeping sickness and leishmaniasis . Known collectively as the human trypanosomiases , these traditionally neglected diseases are responsible for substantial human suffering and death in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa . Current chemotherapy for Chagas' disease is particularly unsatisfactory , with available drug treatments displaying poor efficacy and undesirable toxic side effects . Recent developments in the study of the basic biochemistry of the causative Trypanosoma cruzi parasite and its host infection mechanism have identified an essential proline racemase enzyme ( TcPR ) as a novel target for chemotherapeutic intervention for Chagas' disease . Conformational changes associated with substrate binding to TcPR are believed to expose critical residues that elicit a host mitogenic B-cell response , a process contributing to parasite persistence and the undermining of host immunity against T . cruzi . Here we describe advanced accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that capture previously uncharacterized large-scale motions of TcPR . These motions reveal new conformational epitopes of potential importance for the mitogenic B-cell response . Furthermore , knowledge of the conformational interconversion mechanism and corresponding transient binding pockets will greatly aid future structure-based drug discovery efforts .
We describe a technology for the creation of inducible and reversible gene inactivation in mice . It combines two genetically modified mouse lines: a knock-out line with a tetracycline transactivator replacing the endogenous target gene , and a line in which a tetracycline-inducible cDNA of the target gene has been inserted into a specific genomic locus . A critical component of this system is the unique chromosomal loci we have identified and engineered that offer a platform for easy insertion of any gene of interest for tightly controlled expression . Because of its simple binary nature , allowing independent modification of each of the two components and possibility of use in a high-throughput mode , we believe that our system will be useful for multiple applications , such as introducing mutant or humanized form of the target gene as well as functional manipulating tools . We have applied this technology to the Apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) gene and have demonstrated that: a ) the expression of ApoE is strictly dependent on the presence of doxycycline , a tetracycline group antibiotic , in the mouse diet , b ) in the absence of doxycycline ( ApoE repressed ) atherosclerotic plaques are formed , confirming the importance of ApoE in the process , and c ) upon re-induction of ApoE in the animals with doxicyclin , atherosclerosis regressed .
Congenital transmission of Trypanosoma cruzi , the causative agent of Chagas disease , remains a problem of global public health impact in endemic areas where vectorial and transfusional transmission have been controlled and in non-endemic countries due to migration movements . Little is known about how the parasite´s presence and genetic variability affect placental capacity to protect the fetus . This study explores , for the first time , the effects of placental environment infection by analyzing parasite persistence and gene expression using functional genomics and biological network analyses in mice infected by two strains of T . cruzi , with differential capacity of congenital transmission . The infection with the strain with a stronger placental tropism was associated to a higher degree of up-regulation in genes related to innate immunity and response to interferon-gamma . Our findings suggest that the placental environment exerts a strong immune response in detriment of cellular metabolism modulated by the parasite strain . These findings constitute a significant contribution to better understand the mechanisms causing congenital infection of T . cruzi .
The mosquito-borne Sindbis virus ( SINV ) causes polyarthritis and rash known as Ockelbo disease in Sweden and Pogosta disease in Finland . This mainly tropical and sub-tropical virus occurs in many countries , and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause reoccurring outbreaks every seventh year . The seven-year SIN outbreak cycle is commonly referred to in scientific papers , although the hypothesis is based solely on reported clinical cases . In the search for a more objective outbreak risk signal , we evaluated abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from Sweden . Vector mosquitoes collected in the River Dalälven floodplains the years before , during and after the hypothesized 2002 outbreak , were assayed for SINV . SINV prevalence was significantly increased in vector mosquitoes during the hypothesized 2002 outbreak , as compared to the 2001 pre-outbreak and the 2003 post-outbreak years . Genetic analysis showed a close relationship between the virus strains , indicating SINV has remained in local annual enzootic circulation since been introduced into the River Dalälven floodplains . We conclude that increased SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes constitutes a marker most valuable for studying the seven-year outbreak cycle .
The way in which the brain encodes , processes , transforms , and stores sensory information is a fundamental question in systems neuroscience . One challenge is to understand how neural oscillations , synchrony , population coding , and sparseness interact in the process of transforming and transferring information . Another question is how synaptic plasticity , the ability of synapses to change their strength , interacts efficiently with these different coding strategies to support learning and information storage . We approached these questions , rarely accessible to direct experimental investigation , in the olfactory system of the locust , a well-studied example . Here , the neurons in the antennal lobe carry neural representations of odor identity using dense , spatially distributed , oscillatory synchronized patterns of neural activity . Odor information cannot be interpreted by considering their activity independently . On the contrary , in the mushroom body—the next processing region , involved in the storage and retrieval of olfactory memories and analogous to the olfactory cortex—odor representations are sparse and carried by more selective neurons . Sparse information coding by ensembles of neurons provides several important advantages including high memory capacity , low overlap between stored objects , and easy information retrieval . How is this sparseness achieved ? Here , with a rigorous computational model of the olfactory system , we demonstrate that plasticity at the input afferents to the mushroom body can efficiently mediate the delicate tuning necessary to selectively filter intense sensory input , condensing it to the sparse responses observed in the mushroom body . Our results suggest a general mechanism for plasticity-enabled sparse representations in other sensory systems , such as the visual system . Overall , we illustrate a potential central role for plasticity in the transfer of information across different coding strategies within neural systems .
The WHO predicts that coronary artery disease ( CAD ) will become the leading cause of death worldwide in 2010 . Currently , major research efforts are focused on understanding the genetics of CAD through multi-center , genome-wide association studies of tens of thousands of patients and controls . Such studies can identify common variants of general importance throughout the entire population , which are likely relatively few . The number of rare genetic variants and variants that act in the context of environmental risk factors for CAD is probably much higher . We performed whole-genome expression analyses in several organs to identify functionally associated genes important for CAD development . We found an atherosclerosis module ( A-module ) consisting of 128 genes , enriched with genetic risk for CAD , involving transendothelial migration of leukocytes ( TEML ) and LIM domain binding 2 ( LDB2 ) as its high-hierarchy regulator . Our study design represents a novel way of understanding the molecular underpinnings of CAD , focusing on genome-wide expression sensing both environmental and genetic influences . Investigating the relative enrichment of genetic CAD risk in functional groups ( modules and networks ) is an alternative approach to extract additional relevant information from genome-wide association studies . The A-module and LDB2 are attractive targets for treatments to modulate TEML and atherosclerosis development .
Many organisms possess a true circadian clock and coordinate their activities into daily cycles . Among the simplest organisms harboring such a 24 h-clock are cyanobacteria . Interactions among three proteins , KaiA , KaiB , KaiC , and cyclic KaiC phosphorylation govern the daily rhythm from gene expression to metabolism . Thus , the control of the kaiBC gene cluster expression is important for regulating the cyanobacterial clockwork . A picture has emerged in which different KaiC phospho-states activate and inhibit kaiBC expression . However , the mechanism remains to be solved . Here , we investigated the impact of each KaiC phospho-state on kaiBC expression by introducing a model that combines the circadian transcription/translation rhythm with the KaiABC-protein oscillator . We tested 32 combinations of positive and negative transcriptional regulation . It turns out that the kaiBC expression and KaiC phosphorylation dynamics in wild type and kai mutants can only be described by one mechanism: threonine and double phosphorylated KaiC hexamers activate kaiBC expression and the unphosphorylated state suppresses it . Further , we propose that the activator-to-repressor abundance ratio very likely determines the kaiBC expression dynamics in the simulated kai mutants . Our suggested clock model can be extended by further kinetic mechanisms to gain deeper insights into the various underlying processes of circadian gene regulation .
HIV-2 induces a still poorly understood attenuated infection compared to HIV-1 . We investigated whether this infection might follow peculiarities associated with other models of attenuated HIV-1/SIV infection , i . e . a limited infection of a key subset of memory CD4 T lymphocytes , the central-memory ones ( TCM ) . Thus we studied the infection rates in peripheral blood cells from 14 untreated HIV-2 infected individuals from the ANRS-CO5 HIV-2 cohort , and found; 1 ) a lack of infection of monocytes , 2 ) extremely low infection in central-memory CD4+ T lymphocytes while HIV-2 predominated in the transitional-memory cells , 3 ) a poor replicative capacity of HIV-2 in individuals cells . We then investigated the cellular expression of a hundred-host genes potentially involved in HIV-2 control . We found in individuals’ TCM cells , compared to TTM ones , a lower expression of CXCR6 , a potentially alternative co-receptor of HIV-2 but not of HIV-1 , and a higher expression of TRIM5α , a restriction factor to which HIV-2 is more sensitive than HIV-1 . Altogether our findings shed new light on the low pathogenicity of HIV-2 suggesting mechanisms close to those reported in other models of attenuated HIV/SIV infection models .
At a given moment , a tremendous amount of visual information falls on the retinae , far more than the brain is capable of processing . By directing attention to a spatial location , stimuli at that position can be selectively processed , while irrelevant information from non-attended locations can be largely ignored . We present a detailed model that describes the mechanisms by which visual spatial attention may be implemented in the brain . Using this model , we simulated three previous studies of spatial attention in primates , and analysed the simulation data using the same methods as in the original experiments . Across these simulations , and without altering model parameters , our model produces results that are statistically indistinguishable from those recorded in primates . Unlike previous work , our model provides greater biological detail of how the brain performs selective visual processing , while also accurately demonstrating numerous forms of selective attention . Our results suggest that these seemingly different forms of attentional effects may result from a single mechanism for selectively processing attended stimuli .
Atrial fibrillation is a common and morbid cardiac arrhythmia . Atrial fibrillation is heritable , and numerous genome-wide susceptibility loci have been identified , predominantly in non-coding regions . Over 35 genes also have been implicated in atrial fibrillation pathogenesis mostly through prior smaller scale candidate gene association studies , which generally did not have robust replication to support the associations . Therefore , the role of coding variation in the biology of atrial fibrillation is unclear . We examined whole exome sequencing data from 1 , 734 individuals with and 9 , 423 without atrial fibrillation , and did not observe any significant associations between coding variation and the arrhythmia . Furthermore , we did not observe any enrichment for association in previously implicated atrial fibrillation genes . In aggregate , our findings suggest that large effect coding variation is unlikely to be a predominant mechanism of common forms of atrial fibrillation encountered in the community .
Human alveolar echinococcosis ( AE ) is a consequence of accidental ingestion of the eggs of the tapeworm Echinococcus multilocularis . AE constitutes a serious and increasing medical and epidemiological problem in many countries including Poland . The natural environments with a high AE prevalence are the areas where the definitive hosts ( foxes , raccoons ) and the intermediate hosts ( rodents ) live . The increasing population of infected foxes that penetrate nearby the village and urban buildings and infected dogs poses a certain risk to human health . This report is a joint clinical and epidemiological analysis of 121 AE cases recorded in the years 1990–2011 in Poland . The highest percentage of E . multilocularis infected foxes in the north-eastern regions of Poland ( about 40% of the examined population infected ) bears a clear-cut relation to the highest incidence of detected AE human cases in those areas . An epidemiological and clinical survey of the local population conducted for over a dozen years has contributed to the discovery of several new AE cases . Alveolar echinococcosis in humans caused by Echinococcus multilocularis infection belongs to the emerging diseases in Poland where a continuous increase in the detection rate was noticed during the last two decades .
Zinc is an essential nutrient for most organisms , with the Zn2+ ion performing numerous structural , regulatory , and catalytic roles in a range of proteins . However , this nutrient can neither be synthesized nor degraded and individual cells need to be able to maintain steady levels of zinc in the face of near-zero or excessively high environmental concentrations . Here we look at how the bacterium E . coli does this , by examining the structure and function of Zur , a transcriptional repressor that is exquisitely sensitive to Zn2+ concentration . Although the structures of related Zur proteins on their own are known , here we show how E . coli protein binds to DNA and explain its extreme sensitivity and specificity ( it responds to Zn2+ concentrations in the femtomolar range ) . Our results reveal how the Zur protein switches on and off a bank of bacterial genes that control zinc physiology . Extensive analysis of protein-DNA interactions revealed both a surprising degree of cooperativity and an extremely large range of Zur-DNA binding affinities across the set of genes known as the Zur regulon . The results provide strong support for a controversial idea that the thermodynamics of an ensemble of protein-DNA interactions play a dominant role in the physiological control of gene regulation networks . In addition , we have used our structural and thermodynamic analysis to identify a novel gene target of Zur regulation .
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a mosquito-borne zoonosis affecting domestic ruminants and humans . The RVF virus ( RVFV ) may be transmitted either by mosquitoes or through direct contact with body fluids or products from viremic animals . Until now Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) epidemiological cycle had been described in tropical , hot irrigated or arid areas . In 2008 , and for the first time , human and bovine cases were detected in a temperate ecosystem in Madagascar . Based on a large and original set of field data relating to various areas of expertise—serological , virological , socio-economic , environmental and entomological data—we proposed a spatialized meta-population model integrating cattle exchange practices and virus transmission dynamic to test several scenarios that could explain the recurrent circulation of the virus in this ecosystem . This is the first model aiming at simulating RVF transmission in a temperate area and using field data .
The Asian tiger mosquito , Aedes albopictus , is an aggressive mosquito that has expanded globally in the last century , chiefly due to the increase of human movements . It is a major public health concern due to its role in transmitting dengue , chikungunya and Zika viruses . Understanding how populations of Ae . albopictus are genetically related and how they have been introduced into new regions is important for controlling them and assessing their disease risk; few studies have explored this in the Indo-Pacific . In our study , we sampled a broader range of populations of Ae . albopictus in the Indo-Pacific to explore genetic patterns and to investigate the likely route of invasion through Australasia . We uncovered clear genetic groups throughout this region , but also found that some geographically distant populations are closely related , likely due to human-associated movements . We also found , that Ae . albopictus likely colonized New Guinea from mainland Southeast ( SE ) Asia before spreading to the Solomon Islands via either PNG or SE Asia . In contrast , the populations in Australia’s Torres Strait Islands were introduced from Indonesia . Interestingly , we found major genetic changes over time in some Torres Strait populations , less than a decade after its introduction , potentially reflective of a random reduction in genetic diversity ( genetic drift ) or a secondary invasion .
Millions of school-age children in Tanzania are infected with Schistosoma mansoni which have an impact on their physical health by reducing growth and fitness , causing anaemia and liver and spleen pathology . Apart from these measurable physical parameters , self-rating of well-being by administration of quality of life questionnaires has been proposed for measuring schistosome related morbidity . A total of 572 schoolchildren aged 7–8 years were examined for S . mansoni infection , anaemia , malnutrition and liver/spleen enlargement . Furthermore , the children participated in a 20 metres shuttle run fitness test and answered a quality of life questionnaire for children . While there was no association between S . mansoni prevalence or intensities and anaemia , malnutrition , fitness or organ enlargement , S . mansoni infected children had a significantly lower self-perceived emotional quality of life . Thus , infected children were more often scared , sad , angry or worried about their future compared to their uninfected peers . More in depth studies are needed in order to refine the questionnaire so it focuses more on aspects of quality of life that may be affected by schistosome infections .
Leptospirosis ( infection with pathogenic Leptospira spp . ) is a public health concern worldwide . The brown rat ( Rattus norvegicus ) , as the most ubiquitous animal of urban wildlife , is potentially the primary source of Leptospira spp . for humans , dogs and livestock . For understanding the Leptospira maintenance in rat colonies , the experimental studies required the use of natural route of transmission between the rats . We investigated the effects of the mucosal and bite’s transmission ( conjunctival-mucosal and subcutaneous routes ) compared to the reference route ( intraperitoneal ) during infection in adult rats . With serology , we showed that the antibody production was independent of the inoculation route . By isolation , molecular and histological analyses , we found that the mucosal route was more efficient at renal colonization and leptospires excretion than the subcutaneous route . These results can be useful in understanding the infection modalities in rat that could prevent the human leptospirosis .
We determined the role of AnxA2 in sepsis based on cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) . We demonstrated that AnxA2-deficient mice develop faster bacterial growth , more severe tissue injury and greater mortality compared to wild-type animals . The impaired bacterial control and higher mortality in the absence of AnxA2 are associated with greater neutrophil infiltration , ROS generation and IL-17A production , which are associated with oxidative sensing by cysteine 9 of AnxA2 . Intensified IL-17A decreases bacterial clearance in this model although one of its primary roles is to assist in the clearance of translocating bacteria in the gut , in part by recruiting neutrophils to the disease sites . That said , in sepsis ( at least in this animal model ) , there may be "too much of a good thing" and the negative consequences of this overzealous inflammatory response may become maladaptive . Fortunately , we demonstrate that AnxA2 as a novel regulator effectively contains the heightened inflammation through sensing and regulation of oxidation .
The infection of macrophages by HIV-1 is a crucial event in the pathogenesis of AIDS . Toll-like receptors ( TLR ) are a family of receptors present in macrophages – among other cells – that detect various components of microbes and trigger host defenses . It is known that stimulation of macrophages through TLR3 or TLR4 reduces their susceptibility to HIV-1 infection , but the mechanism is not well understood . Here we show for the first time in primary human macrophages that TLR3 and TLR4 but not other TLRs induce higher levels of microRNA-155 – a key regulator of inflammatory and immune responses – and that microRNA-155 has a remarkable anti-HIV-1 effect . MicroRNAs are small , non-coding RNAs that bind to target mRNAs based on sequence complementarity , and lead to reduced protein output . We also show that the anti-HIV-1 effects of microRNA-155 seem to be mediated through targeting the mRNAs of several cellular proteins needed by the virus for trafficking and/or nuclear import of the viral DNA , which is required for integration into the host DNA and successful infection . These studies provide evidence of novel microRNA-155 targets and may serve as the basis for an innovative approach to reduce cellular susceptibility to HIV-1 infection .
In plants , stems elongate faster at dawn . This time-of-day–specific growth is controlled by integration of environmental cues and the circadian clock . The specific effectors of growth in plants are the phytohormones: auxin , ethylene , gibberellins , abscisic acid , brassinosteroids , and cytokinins . Each phytohormone plays an independent as well as an overlapping role in growth , and understanding the interactions of the phytohormones has dominated plant research over the past century . The authors present a model in which the circadian clock coordinates growth by synchronizing phytohormone gene expression at dawn , allowing a plant to control growth in a condition-specific manner . Furthermore , the results presented provide a new framework for future experiments aimed at understanding the integration and crosstalk of the phytohormones .
Rhodnius prolixus is an important vector of Chagas disease . The development of insecticide resistance in triatomines has raised the need for new control methods . We propose , as a proof-of-concept , the use of symbiotic bacteria expressing dsRNA in a paratransgenic approach to control vector-borne disease . We first show that ingestion of E . coli , producing long dsRNA specific for R . prolixus genes , can produce systemic RNAi in this insect . By targeting genes with antioxidant function ( RHBP and catalase ) , we show that RNAi effects on nymphs and adult females are systemic and temporal , affecting development and fecundity . Finally , we show that the natural vector symbiont , R . rhodnii , also can be modified to induce systemic RNA interference . The E . coli system can serve to screen potential targets for development of a symbiont-based vector control product that then can be transferred to R . rhodnii .
Fever during pregnancy can be harmful for the mother and the infant . In resource poor settings health workers have very few field-based tests that help them identify the cause of infection . This study examined the causes of fever in pregnant women using laboratory support that is typically unavailable to most women living in the tropics . On the Thai-Burmese border there has been a great reduction in malaria in the last 20 years . However malaria remained the leading cause of fever in pregnancy in this study conducted between 2004 and 2006 . Urinary tract infection was also a common cause of fever as it is in resource rich countries . Other diseases transmitted by mosquitoes ( dengue ) , ticks ( scrub and murine typhus ) , or rodents ( leptospirosis ) were common . Scrub and murine typhus were associated with stillbirth and low birth weight . Microscopy remains the most useful tool in the field for the diagnosis of fever in pregnant women . Leptospirosis , dengue and rickettsial infections require improved field-based diagnostic tools to ensure that women receive appropriate antibiotic therapy .
Aging is a genetically and environmentally modulated process . One particular manifestation of aging in humans is the age-related changes that affect the female reproductive system . It is well established that chromosome-number abnormalities in offspring occur more frequently as maternal age advances , but the meiotic mechanisms involved remain unclear . Meiotic recombination has been associated with maternal age in different species but contrasting effects of maternal age on recombination rates have been reported among mammals . In this study , we found a decrease of recombination rates with increasing maternal age in a French-Canadian cohort , with the most pronounced decline possibly occurring before 32 years of age . We observed chromosome-specific age effects , and in older women recombination frequencies are notably reduced in the middle portion of chromosomal arms and near subtelomeric regions . No paternal age effect on recombination was found , highlighting differences in patterns of variation among sexes . Many studies have shown significant inter-individual variation in genome-wide recombination rates , and our results points to an additional , intra-individual source of variation in recombination rates among transmissions from the same mother .
Fungal infections are a significant global health problem that can affect anyone , however , individuals with a weakened immune system are most at risk . Cryptococcus neoformans infections can progress to meningitis in immune compromised individuals accounting for nearly 220 , 000 new cases annually , resulting in 181 , 000 deaths . Vaccine strategies tend to target CD4+ T cells for the generation of protective memory responses . However , immune compromised individuals have decreased numbers of these adaptive cells , providing a challenge for anti-fungal vaccine design . Here , we define a cellular mechanism by which macrophages , an innate cell population , generate protective immune responses against C . neoformans following initial exposure to a C . neoformans strain that secretes IFN-γ . We determined that the macrophages primed in vivo have heightened proinflammatory cytokine responses upon secondary exposure to C . neoformans in a manner that is mTOR-independent , yet dependent on histone modification dynamics . We show that IFN-γ primed macrophages can maintain STAT1 binding to the promoter regions of key proinflammatory genes long after the initial exposure . Remarkably , our studies show long-lived , cryptococcal-specific protective immunity in vivo . The results presented herein demonstrate that innate cell populations , namely macrophages , can be utilized as vaccine targets to protect against cryptococcal infections in immune compromised populations .
Polycomb group proteins ( PcGs ) are essential for development in both animals and plants . Studies in plants are advantageous for elucidation of specific effects of PcGs during development , since most PcG mutants are viable in plants but not in animals . Previous efforts in genetic study of plant PcGs revealed that different PcGs have both common and unique effects on plant development , but the mechanisms underlying the specific regulation of different developmental programs by PcGs are still far from clear . In this study , we quantitatively compared the change in H3K27me3 and gene expression profiles between mutants of key PcG members on a genome-wide scale in Arabidopsis seedlings , and successfully unraveled different developmental programs that are specifically regulated by different combinations of PcGs . This context specific effect of PcGs is closely associated with different sets of transcription factor binding motifs . Together , we revealed on a genome-wide scale that different combinations of PcGs , as well as their association with the binding sites of different TFs , serve to explain the specific regulation of different developmental programs by PcGs .
Proper regulation of Pol II transcription , the first step of gene expression , is essential for life . Extensive evidence has revealed a widely conserved and dynamic polymerase active site component , termed the Trigger Loop ( TL ) , in balancing transcription rate and fidelity while possibly allowing control of transcription elongation . Coupling high-throughput sequencing with our previously established genetic system , we are able to assess the in vivo phenotypes for almost all possible single substitution Pol II TL mutants in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . We show that mutants in the TL nucleotide interacting and linker regions widely confer dominant and severe growth defects . Clustering of TL mutants’ transcription-related and general stress phenotypes reveals three main classes of TL mutants , including previously identified fast and slow elongating mutants . Comprehensive analyses of the distribution of fast and slow elongation mutants in light of existing Pol II crystal structures reveal critical regions contributing to proper TL dynamics and function . Evidence is presented linking a previously observed hydrophobic pocket to NTP substrate-induced TL closing , the mechanism critical for correct substrates selection and transcription fidelity . Finally , we assess the functional interplay between TL and its proximal domains , and their presumptive roles in the function and evolution of the TL . Utilizing the Pol II TL as a case study , we present a structural genetics approach that reveals insights into a complex , multi-functional , and essential domain in yeast .
Rabies virus ( RV ) infects mammalian neurons and cycles in regionally distinct animal populations such as the red fox in Europe , domestic canines in Asia , or raccoons , skunks and bats in Northern America . Although human rabies can be prevented by pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis , more than 50 , 000 people die annually from the severe encephalopathy caused by RV . Recently , two cases of RV transmission by organ transplantation were reported . In our study , using intravenous inoculation of mice , we evaluated the pathogenetic relevance of virions that reach the bloodstream . Mice inoculated intravenously with a canine-derived RV survived the infection in contrast to intramuscularly injected mice , while mice infected with a silver-haired bat-related RV succumbed to the disease regardless of the route of inoculation . We found that the silver-haired bat-related RV was able to transit from the blood to the brain by invading neurosecretory fibers of the hypothalamus , which form neurohemal synapses lacking a blood-brain-barrier . This newly described route of brain invasion might reflect how RV reached the central nervous system from transplanted organs , since it takes longer to establish the neural connections between host and grafted tissue necessary for classical RV migration than the time until the infection became symptomatic in the two reported cases .
The periodic occurrence of influenza epidemics in humans caused by viruses of the A/H1N1 subtype remains a key question in viral epidemiology and evolution and a major issue for public health . Since the first documentation of A/H1N1 in humans in 1918 , this virus has been associated with a variety of epidemics and influenza vaccine failures . Using 71 representative whole-genome sequences of A/H1N1 influenza virus sampled between 1918 and 2005 , we show that reassortment occurs frequently throughout the evolutionary history of this virus . Critically , two of these reassortment events appear to be associated with particularly severe epidemics , those of 1947 and 1951 . Our analysis reveals that the virus associated with the 1947 epidemic was composed of genome segments with differing phylogenetic histories , suggesting that this virus was created through an intra-subtype reassortment event . Notably , of the two main antigenic proteins , the segment encoding the HA ( hemagglutinin ) is related to isolates circulating in a later time period , while the NA ( neuraminidase ) is related to earlier sampled isolates . This explains previous observations that the HA circulating at this time exhibited extensive antigenic drift while the NA appeared to be conserved . In addition , a virus likely associated with the 1951 epidemic also appears to have been generated by a reassortment event . Overall , our findings suggest that reassortment is an important factor in the long-term evolution of influenza A virus , including the periodic emergence of epidemic viruses . However , to more fully capture the evolutionary history of this important virus , additional sequencing of influenza viruses from earlier time periods is clearly needed .
Nicotine is the major addictive substance in tobacco smoke . Nicotine exerts its control over neural circuits through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that normally respond to endogenous acetylcholine . Activation of dopamine neurons in the mesolimbic dopaminergic circuits , which signal motivational properties of actions and stimuli , is at the heart of mediating nicotine reward and dependence . However , major questions have remained unsettled over the precise mechanisms by which nicotine usurps dopaminergic signaling: through receptor activation on dopamine neurons or through receptor desensitization on local inhibitory interneurons . Here we reconcile this debate by showing that both mechanisms are possible . Most notably we present a novel hypothesis suggesting that the mechanisms for nicotine action are state-dependent; they are controlled by the rate of the endogenous cholinergic input to the dopaminergic circuits .
In many countries of the Middle East such as Afghanistan , cutaneous leishmaniasis is a highly prevalent , chronic and stigmatizing skin disease . Poor hygiene conditions frequently aggravate the lesions due to bacterial and fungal superinfections . Classical treatments with injections of pentavalent antimony are hampered by costs , side effects , resistance development , supply and manufactural quality problems . In the present study on Afghan patients with Leishmania tropica-induced skin lesions we evaluated the clinical effect of an initial removal of lesion tissue by electrocoagulation using a bipolar high-frequency electrosurgery instrument , followed by daily moist wound treatment with or without a preparation of pharmaceutical sodium chlorite ( DAC N-055 ) . DAC N-055 is a compound with anti-infective , immunomodulatory and tissue repair-promoting effects . Our analysis revealed that the carefully performed moist wound treatment led to a rapid healing of the wounds within an average period of 6 weeks , even in the absence of the sodium chlorite preparation . This is considerably faster than the time spans previously reported for local or systemic antimony treatment . We believe that the current standard for local care of chronic wounds should also be applied to Leishmania skin lesions . If combined with an initial single high-frequency electrocoagulation , it is a highly effective , inexpensive and well-tolerated treatment option for cutaneous leishmaniasis .
The RAS/MAPK pathway is a cornerstone of the cell proliferation signaling apparatus . It has a notable involvement in cancer as mutations in the components of the pathway are associated with aberrant proliferation . Previous work has focused predominantly on post-translational regulation of RAS/MAPK signaling such that a large and intricate network of factors is now known to act on core pathway components . However , regulation at the pre-translational level has not been examined nearly as extensively and is comparatively poorly understood . In this study , we used an unbiased and global screening approach to survey the Drosophila genome—using Drosophila cultured cells—for novel regulators of this pathway . Surprisingly , a majority of our hits were associated to either transcription or mRNA splicing . We used a series of secondary screening assays to determine which part of the RAS/MAPK pathway these candidates target . We found that these factors were not equally distributed along the pathway , but rather converged predominantly on mapk mRNA expression and processing . Our findings raise the intriguing possibility that regulation of mapk transcript production is a key step for a diverse set of regulatory inputs , and may play an important part in RAS/MAPK signaling dynamics .
The most common fungal pathogen of the central nervous system , members of the Cryptococcus neoformans/C . gattii species complex , causes life-threatening infection in humans with either normal or compromised immunity worldwide . The molecular epidemiology of this fungus in developing countries is highly under-investigated . Thus , three standard molecular typing methods were performed on 498 cryptococcal strains isolated from humans , the environment and animals in Thailand . As in developed countries , C . neoformans was found to be correlated with HIV infected patients and C . gattii infected humans with apparent normal immune status . Combining current and previous data , a total of 20 sequence types ( ST ) were identified suggesting a greater spectrum of major molecular types and genotypes of the C . neoformans/C . gattii species complex in Thailand than previously reported . Moreover , the discovery of the minor genotype ( ST7 ) of the Vancouver Island outbreak in Thailand indicates that Asia may be an important stepping stone in its global expansion . This study gives an insight in the molecular epidemiological picture of this important fungal pathogen and necessitates further detailed studies .
The phenotypic differences observed between closely related organisms are thought to be due largely to changes in regulatory networks . Changes in transcriptional networks can occur via mutations in cis binding sites , for which there are numerous known examples , as well as via binding specificity variation in transcription factors ( TFs ) , a less studied phenomenon that has been observed primarily in multi-gene families . Though large-scale experimental studies ascertaining the extent to which TFs contribute to regulatory network variation across organisms are lacking and would be time-consuming , computational methods can begin to address this challenge . Here , we present a systematic , large-scale analysis of DNA-binding specificity evolution in TF orthologs by computationally leveraging specific features of Cys2-His2 zinc finger proteins , the largest class of TFs in animals and major components of their regulatory programs . We find not only that divergence of DNA-binding residues in 1-to-1 orthologous C2H2-ZFs is pervasive but also that these changes show evidence of functional constraint and occur in a gradual , evolutionarily viable manner . We conclude that the diversification of orthologous TFs has most likely played a major and largely unstudied role in gene regulatory network evolution in metazoans .
Typhoid and paratyphoid fevers are a major health problem in developing countries , where they are still endemic . Accurate diagnosis remains a challenge , as identification of the causal agents , Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A , respectively , requires appropriate facilities ( for bacterial culture ) and specific reagents ( typing antisera ) . Several Salmonella serotype-specific PCR assays have been published and even used directly on biological samples , but none has been validated on a large collection of strains to check for reliability and robustness . We report here the successful development of conventional and real-time PCR assays for the identification of serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A from cultured isolates . These assays , based on an original target ( CRISPR ) , had a sensitivity and specificity of 100% in tests on a collection of more than 330 strains . The conventional multiplex PCR assay provides an alternative to the serotyping method for laboratories in developing countries unable to obtain a regular supply of typing antisera but with access to PCR technology .
Infection with protozoan parasites of Leishmania species results in a spectrum of local or systemic diseases in humans and mammals . Overall , leishmaniasis afflicts around 12 million individuals in 88 countries worldwide . Cutaneous leishmaniasis is the most prevalent form of the disease . In order to better understand the complex molecular pathways leading to protection against the cutaneous form of the disease , we used the Leishmania major mouse model . Most mouse strains control L . major infection due to the development of a Th1 response , leading to secretion of IFNγ by T cells which promotes healing and resistance to reinfection . Notch signaling is a very conserved pathway in the regulation of cell differentiation and cell fate decision . However the contribution of Notch receptors in the response to parasite infection is not clear . In this study , we infected mice that do not express Notch1 and Notch2 receptors on the surface of their T cells . We show that these Notch receptors are key players in the development of a protective Th1 immune response against L . major . These results contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms involved in the development of a protective response against pathogens .
To test the hypothesis that infection with helmiths may increase host susceptibility to infection with HIV-1 , we quantified the amount of a clade C simian-human immunodeficiency virus needed to infect rhesus macaques that had acute Schistosoma mansoni infections . Compared to control animals exposed to virus alone , monkeys with schistosomiasis required exposure to 17-fold lower levels of virus to become infected . The schistosome-infected monkeys also had significantly higher levels of initial virus replication and loss of a certain subset of memory T cells , both predictors of a more rapid progression to immune dysfunction . These results suggest that worm infections may increase the risk of becoming infected with HIV-1 among individuals with viral exposures . Furthermore , they support the idea that control programs for schistosomiasis and perhaps other parasitic worm infections may also be useful in helping to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in developing countries where helminths are endemic .
Within the brain , networks of neurons with relatively stable anatomical connections will rapidly shift patterns of neural activation when exposed to changing chemical environments . A classic example of this is the transition from high frequency to low frequency electrical patterns as animals move from waking to slow wave sleep . The neurotransmitters responsible for these transitions act through changes in neural excitability and their effect on network patterns arises through an interaction of stable network features and dynamic neural properties . In this paper we study how network features , namely excitatory/ inhibitory balance , and dynamic neural properties , the presence or absence of spike-frequency adaptation , shape large-scale patterns in network activity . We focus on the neuromodulator largely responsible for the transition between waking and slow-wave sleep , acetylcholine . We show that inhibition and SFA work together to set the speed of activity propagation through a network by altering the spatial ( inhibition ) and temporal ( SFA ) extent of neural activity . By scanning these parameters a variety of dynamical regimes can be created .
Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) is a deadly human cancer that develops in the lower esophagus , which is exposed to reflux of acidic stomach contents and has reduced microbial diversity . Next generation sequencing studies have shown that accumulation of somatic mutations occurs along the metaplasia–dysplasia–carcinoma sequence in EAC , and it has been proposed that groups of genes involved in similar processes or pathways could have a cumulative effect . The Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) signalling pathway is critical for host-microbe interaction , and therefore mutations in these pathways could be important in the pathogenesis of EAC . Here we show that TLR pathway genes are recurrently mutated in 15% of EAC tumours and other solid tumour types exposed to microbial communities , including uterine endometrioid carcinoma ( 59% ) , cutaneous melanoma ( 38% ) , colorectal adenocarcinoma ( 27% ) , and stomach adenocarcinoma ( 26% ) . TLR mutant cases were associated with more proximal tumours and metastatic disease , indicating possible clinical significance of these mutations . A better understanding of how altered TLR signalling contributes to the inflammatory tumour microenvironment in EAC could help inform cancer prevention strategies .
The sensation of taste is composed of five basic modalities: sweet , bitter , umami , sour , and salty . Specialized taste cells perceive the various chemical cues within food . About 100 taste cells assemble into onion-shaped clusters called taste buds , which are located on taste papillae in the tongue epithelium and on oral mucosa . Of the five taste modalities , the taste stimulants responsible for sweet , bitter , and umami tastes are recognized by a group of G protein–coupled taste receptors , and the signal transduction pathways utilized following receptor stimulation share common molecules . However , it is still largely unknown how these molecules are regulated during taste cell development . We performed computer analyses based on previously known information about signal transduction pathways involved in the taste-sensing system to identify taste stem cells/progenitor factors of type II taste cells ( responsible for sweet , bitter , and umami taste sensations ) . We found several transcription factors likely to bind to the regulatory regions of taste-related calcium signaling molecules ( TRCSMs ) , and identified Hes1 as a potential candidate for common regulatory factors of TRCSMs . In vivo analyses using wild-type and Hes1 mutant mice confirmed that Hes1 regulates differentiation of bitter- , sweet- , and umami-sensing cells .
Rice is an important crop worldwide and is grown in water-saturated environments during its life cycle . This unique feature confers that rice might have different aspects from Arabidopsis in ethylene signaling . Although the crosstalk between ethylene and auxin is well understood in Arabidopsis , however , the interaction in rice is largely unclear . Here , we show that YUC8/REIN7 , a member of the YUC gene family , catalyzing the conversion of IPA to IAA in auxin biosynthesis , is transcriptionally modulated by ethylene signaling component OsEIL1 , and mainly participates in auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root growth . We first identified that ethylene-inhibited root elongation is suppressed by the inhibitor of YUC activity , and YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis , indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is involved in ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings . Moreover , ethylene induced YUC8/REIN7 transcription and promoted auxin accumulation in roots . Addition of low concentrations of IAA rescued the ethylene response in the rein7-1 , demonstrating that ethylene stimulates auxin biosynthesis dependent on YUC8/REIN7 function . Further evidence revealed that OsEIL1 transcriptionally activates the expression of YUC8/REIN7 , and YUC8/REIN7-mediated auxin biosynthesis genetically acts downstream of OsEIL1 . Our data in the present report identified an interaction between ethylene and auxin in rice seedling primary root elongation , increasing our understanding of ethylene signaling in rice root growth .
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria ( NTM ) are opportunistic pathogens and saprophytes found largely in wet soil , marshland , streams , rivers and estuaries . Pulmonary and extrapulmonary Infections caused by NTM’s increased globally in immune-suppressed and immune-competent individuals without an exemption to Saudi Arabia . However , recent developments in diagnostic platforms improved the identification of several new and rare species of NTM’s . Interestingly , recent studies linked the direct impact of species spectrum on clinical outcome and therapies . To date , in Saudi Arabia , no systematic nationwide surveillance study was conducted on the challenges of NTM causing diseases . Therefore , for the first time , a nationwide inventory study on the spectrum of clinically relevant pulmonary and extra pulmonary diseases with an attempt to explore epidemiological data has been carried out . The study results showed a huge species spectrum of NTM’s causing highly diverse clinical manifestations . Clinical relevance pulmonary infection was relatively high and several very rare extrapulmonary infections also were observed . The study reported the emergence of a rare pathogen , Mycobacterium riyadhense and predominance of Mycobacterium simiae as the most common species . As the first large scale study from the GCC region , the findings cements the growing potential of various NTM species to cause significant clinical implications in the country and warrants an immediate change on disease management priorities .
Calorie restriction improves healthy lifespan in all the organisms from yeast to mammals . However , our knowledge of the underlying mechanisms is still limited . The budding yeast naturally experiences calorie restriction when glucose in the rich medium is exhausted and cells start to consume the fermentation products before entering the stationary phase . Here , we demonstrate that the key for yeast cells to survive in the stationary phase is to accumulate sufficient storage carbohydrates ( both trehalose and glycogen ) during the transition phases . This accumulation requires the integration of starvation signals tranduced from multiple signaling pathways , including those activated by the inhibition of the major nutrient sensors ( TOR/PKA ) , the energy-sensing complex ( SNF1/AMPK ) , and the cell wall integrity pathway . We have also shown that the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and the population size are limited by those starvation signals downstream of TOR . Therefore , our data suggest that metabolic reprogramming to increase energy stores , anti-oxidant defence systems and population control are cooperatively activated by a set of key signaling proteins to ensure longevity in eukaryotic cells .
Seasonal influenza A viruses ( IAV ) cause tens of thousands of deaths and tens of billions of dollars in economic costs every year in the U . S . alone , despite widespread pre-exposure and vaccination . IAV persists within the human population by evading herd immunity through the continual accumulation of immune escape substitutions in a process known as antigenic drift . Unfortunately , the specific mechanisms that facilitate IAV antigenic drift remain unclear , making it difficult to design more efficacious , escape-proof vaccines . Here , we used a high-definition population sequencing approach to understand how IAV tolerates the accumulation of immune escape substitutions during antigenic drift without losing fitness . We found that the virus rapidly acquired N-linked glycan structures on the hemagglutinin ( HA ) protein following escape from a panel of neutralizing antibodies . Glycosylation of HA alleviated the deleterious effects of immune escape substitutions on interactions with host cell receptors . These results expand our understanding of the mechanisms that facilitate IAV immune evasion , and highlight the immense power of high-definition virus population sequencing to reveal novel viral adaptive mechanisms .
Several drugs intended to treat cardiac arrhythmias have failed because of unfavorable rate-dependent properties . That is , the drugs fail to alter electrical activity at fast heart rates , where this would be beneficial , but they do affect electrical activity at slow rates , where this is unwanted . In targeted studies , several agents have been shown to exhibit these unfavorable properties , suggesting that these rate-dependent responses may be intrinsic to ventricular muscle . To determine whether drugs with desirable rate-dependent properties could be rationally designed , we performed comprehensive and systematic analyses of several heart cell models . These analyses calculated the rate-dependent properties of changes in any model parameter , thereby generating simultaneously a large number of model predictions . The analyses showed that targets with favorable rate-dependent properties could indeed be identified , and further simulations uncovered the mechanisms underlying these behaviors . Moreover , a quantitative comparison of results obtained in different models provided new insight in why a given drug applied to different species , or to different tissue types , might produce different rate-dependent behaviors . Overall this study shows how a comprehensive and systematic approach to heart cell models can both identify novel targets and produce more general insight into rate-dependent alterations to cardiac electrical activity .
The use of underlying molecular mechanisms and other factors to describe and classify diseases is a major challenge for future treatment strategies . New methods are needed to achieve this goal . The phenome wide association study ( PheWAS ) methodology was initially developed to unveil unknown associations between a specific genetic status and phenotypic features ( e . g . diagnoses from electronic health records ) . We initially propose to extend this method to assessment of the relationships between the levels of a quantitative trait and diagnosis codes . We also assess the relationships between this quantitative trait and the biological test results . We tested this method using the levels of enzymatic activity of thiopurine S-methyltransferase ( TPMT ) that is involved in the metabolism of thiopurine drugs used in inflammatory bowel diseases for example . We discovered an association between a very high TPMT activity and nutritional anemia and diabetes . These results could be used to describe a new subgroup of patients in order to optimize drug treatments .
Spinal cord injury is an important cause of disability in young adults , and stem cells have been proposed as a possible treatment . Here we systematically assess the evidence in the scientific literature for the effectiveness of stem-cell–based therapies in animal models of spinal cord injury . More studies reported effects on the ability to move ( “motor outcomes” ) than on sensation ( “sensory outcomes” ) . Overall , treatment improves both sensory and motor outcomes , and for sensory outcome there was a dose–response effect ( which suggests an underlying biological basis ) . Although more measures were taken to reduce the risk of bias than in other areas of translational neuroscience , unblinded studies tended to overstate the effectiveness of the treatment . The variability observed between the studies is not explained by differences in the stem cells used , but does seem to depend on the different injury models used to emulate human spinal cord injury . This suggests that the mechanism of injury should be an important consideration in the design of future clinical trials . Furthermore , open questions arise about the use of immunosuppressive drugs , and efficacy in female animals; these should be addressed before proceeding to clinical trial .
Infections with soil-transmitted helminths ( the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides , the whipworm Trichuris trichiura , and hookworm ) affect over 1 billion people , particularly rural communities in the developing world . The global strategy to control soil-transmitted helminth infections is ‘preventive chemotherapy’ , which means large-scale administration of anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations . However , because reinfection occurs after treatment , ‘preventive chemotherapy’ must be repeated regularly . Our systematic review and meta-analysis found that at 3 , 6 , and 12 months after treatment , A . lumbricoides prevalence reached 26% ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 16–43% ) , 68% ( 95% CI: 60–76% ) and 94% ( 95% CI: 88–100% ) of pretreatment levels , respectively . For T . trichiura , respective reinfection prevalence at these time points were 36% ( 95% CI: 28–47% ) , 67% ( 95% CI: 42–100% ) , and 82% ( 95% CI: 62–100% ) ; and for hookworm , 30% ( 95% CI: 26–34% ) , 55% ( 95% CI: 34–87% ) , and 57% ( 95% CI: 49–67% ) . Prevalence and intensity of reinfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status . Our results suggest a frequent anthelmintic drug administration to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy . Moreover , an integrated control strategy , consisting of preventive chemotherapy combined with health education and environmental sanitation is needed to interrupt transmission of soil-transmitted helminths .
This work aims to introduce a network-based enrichment analysis using metabolic networks and transcriptomics data . Previous pathways/subsystems enrichment methods use predefined gene annotations of metabolic processes and gene annotations can differ based on different resources and can produce bias in pathway definitions . Thus , we introduce a framework , Minimum Network Enrichment Analysis ( MiNEA ) , which first finds all possible minimal-size networks for a given metabolic process/task and then identifies deregulated minimal networks using deregulated genes between two conditions . MiNEA also identifies the deregulation in key reactions that are overlapped across all possible minimal-size networks . We applied MiNEA to identify deregulated metabolic tasks and their synthesis networks in the steatosis and the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) diseases using a metabolic network and transcriptomics data of mouse and human liver samples . We identified key regulators of NASH for the synthesis networks of hydrogen peroxide and ceramide in both humans and mice . We also identified opposite deregulation in NASH for the phosphatidylserine synthesis network between humans and mice . MiNEA finds synthesis networks for a given target metabolite and due to this it is flexible to study deregulation in different phenotypes . MiNEA can be widely applicable for studying context-specific metabolism for any organism because the metabolic networks and context-specific gene expression data are now available for many organisms .
Humans can identify odors independent of their intensity . Experimental data suggest that this is accomplished by representing the odor identity by the earliest responding receptor types . Using theoretical modeling , we here show that such a primacy code outperforms alternative encodings and allows discriminating odors with close to experimentally measured performance . This performance depends strongly on the number of receptors considered in the primacy code , but the receptor repertoire size is less important . The model also suggests a strong evolutionary pressure on the receptor sensitivities , which could explain observed receptor copy number adaptations . By predicting psycho-physical experiments , the model will thus contribute to our understanding of the olfactory system .
Antibodies that potently neutralize a broad range of circulating HIV strains have been described . These antibodies target a variety of sites on the envelope protein of HIV , three copies of which associate to form a trimer that decorate the membrane surface of the virus particle . Some of these antibodies target regions of the envelope protein close to the membrane , some bind to the top of the trimer , others bind via carbohydrates which cover the envelope protein and another subset binds to the same site as the human HIV receptor CD4 . Despite effectively blocking 50% of infection at low antibody concentrations , for some particular virus/antibody combinations a proportion of virus particles are resistant to antibody neutralization , even at extremely high concentrations . This phenomenon is called incomplete neutralization and also frequently results in non-sigmoidal dose-response curves when antibody concentration is plotted against the level of virus infection . Previously , antibodies that target the apex of the trimer have been associated with incomplete neutralization and non-sigmoidal curves . In this study we show that representatives from all the groups of antibodies described above result in incomplete neutralization against at least one virus but that the phenomenon is more frequent for those binding the apex and the stalk of the trimer . Resistant populations of virus were seen whether the virus was produced in the natural target of HIV infection ( human CD4+ T cells ) or engineered human cells more commonly used to produce virus to test antibody function . Understanding this phenomenon is important for the future use of antibodies as therapeutics and for vaccine studies as a resistant population of viruses could result in failure to control the virus infection in patients .
Hallmarks describing common key events in initiation , maintenance and progression of cancer have been identified . One hallmark deals with rewiring of metabolic reactions required to sustain enhanced cell proliferation . The availability of molecular , mechanistic models of cancer hallmarks will mightily improve optimized personal treatment and new drug discovery . Metabolism is the only hallmark for which it is currently possible to derive large scale mathematical models , which have predictive ability . In this paper , we exploit a constraint-based model of the core metabolism required for biomass conversion of the most relevant nutrients—glucose and glutamine—to clarify the logic of control of cancer metabolism . We newly report that , when available oxygen is not sufficient to fully oxidize available glucose and glutamine carbons–a situation compatible with that observed under normal oxygen conditions in human and in cancer cells growing in vitro—utilization of glutamine by reductive carboxylation and conversion of glucose and glutamine to lactate confer advantage for biomass production . Redox homeostasis can be maintained through the use of different alternative pathways . In conclusion , this paper offers a logic interpretation to the link between metabolic rewiring and enhanced proliferation , which may offer new approaches to targeted drug discovery and utilization .
Prions underlie rare but invariably fatal neurodegenerative diseases in humans and other mammals . Public awareness of these diseases has grown with the occurrence of cases of BSE ( also known as “Mad Cow Disease” ) and the realization that this disease can , in rare instances , be transmitted to humans . The normal cellular prion protein is found in most cell types within the body . In disease , this protein acquires a different shape which tends to aggregate and poison nearby cells . The disease-associated conversion of the prion protein appears to require its localization to specialized cellular membrane regions rich in cholesterol; however , the precise molecular environment which hosts this event has remained elusive . We used a cell-based disease model to identify proteins which reside in close proximity to the prion protein and two closely related mammalian proteins . We demonstrate that these three proteins may not only populate highly similar environments but may also interact with each other . We further identified an extended molecular network in proximity of these proteins which supports functions in adhesion control , lactate metabolism and cell fusion events . It is anticipated that these insights will contribute to efforts to rationally interfere with aberrant protein-protein interactions underlying these diseases .
IL-5 is a cytokine that is typically associated with parasitic infections and allergic reactions . The primary role of IL-5 is thought to be for the development and maturation of an innate immune cell type , the eosinophil , which is also a culprit in allergic diseases such as asthma . During respiratory virus infection , such as influenza infection , IL-5 and eosinophils are not thought to play a major role in host defense . Here we show that IL-5 is produced in response to influenza infection and results in the progressive accumulation of eosinophils in the lung . We show that a newly discovered cell type , the group 2 innate lymphoid cell ( ILC2 ) , is responsible for IL-5 production during influenza infection and that the capacity of ILC2 to make IL-5 is greatly increased following virus clearance , i . e . during the recovery phase . The production of IL-5 by ILC2 is in part regulated by NKT cells and IL-33 produced by this cell type during the recovery phase of influenza infection .
Invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella ( iNTS ) infections occur when Salmonella bacteria , which normally cause diarrhea , enter the bloodstream and spread through the body . Invasive NTS infections have become a common cause of infection and death in children with malaria and adults with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa . However , it is unknown whether iNTS is as common or as severe outside sub-Saharan Africa . We evaluated over 100 iNTS cases from an infectious disease hospital in southern Vietnam admitted between 2008–2013 . We used hospital records to determine the clinical features of iNTS disease and to identify risk factors associated with death and performed typing of the isolated organisms . The majority of patients were HIV positive ( 72/102 , 71% ) , >90% of patients were adults , 71% were male and 33% reported intravenous drug use . The mortality rate of iNTS patients was 28% ( 26/92 ) , and HIV infection was a significant risk factor for fatal outcome ( p = 0 . 039 ) . The serovars most commonly identified were S . Enteritidis and S . Typhimurium; S . Typhimurium was found more frequently in HIV-positive individuals ( p = 0 . 003 ) . We report that iNTS disease is a severe infection in Vietnam with a high mortality rate . Similar to sub-Saharan Africa , HIV infection was a strong risk factor for death .
Bacteriophages are extremely abundant and diverse biological entities . All phage particles are comprised of nucleic acids and structural proteins , with few other packaged proteins . Despite their simplicity and abundance , more than 70% of phage sequences in the viral Reference Sequence database encode proteins with unknown function based on FASTA annotations . As a result , the use of sequence similarity is often insufficient for detecting virus structural proteins among unknown viral sequences . Viral structural protein function is challenging to detect from sequence data because structural proteins possess few known conserved catalytic motifs and sequence domains . To address these issues we investigated the use of Artificial Neural Networks as an alternative means of predicting function . Here , we trained thousands of networks using the amino acid frequency of structural protein sequences and identified the optimal architectures with the highest accuracies . Some hypothetical protein sequences detected by our networks were expressed and visualized by TEM , and produced images that strongly resemble virion structures . Our results support the utility of our neural networks in predicting the functions of unknown viral sequences .
The herpesviruses are a family of large double-stranded DNA viruses that cause a variety of illnesses from chicken pox to cancer . Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is a cancer-causing herpesvirus and can lead to development of Kaposi’s sarcoma , a major form of cancer in HIV-positive patients . As for all herpesviruses , infection with KSHV is lifelong . Exactly how KSHV initiates and maintains its infection is still not well understood , but it must manipulate the host cell to establish favorable conditions . Likewise , the host has developed a complicated system to fight off invaders , which includes the production of interferon-stimulated gene products . We have now found that KSHV exploits one such host cell protein , the oligoadenylate synthetase-like protein ( OASL ) . Rather than OASL acting as an antiviral protein as it does during many other viral infections , KSHV appears to have found a way to utilize OASL for its own benefit . The KSHV protein ORF20 interacts with OASL , they co-localize in nucleoli , and both ORF20 and OASL associate and purify with components of the cellular translational machinery . This may help viral infection by selectively controlling protein production .
There has , perhaps , been undue focus on malaria as a cause of childhood fever and convulsions , often with delayed/missed diagnosis of other serious prevalent infections , and correspondingly very little published data on the contribution of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) in endemic areas . There is also very little published data on the contribution of LVD to childhood morbidity and mortality in Nigeria , a large LVD-endemic country that has in circulation 3 of the 4 currently known lineages of the Lassa virus . This study was carried out to address these gaps . The results should also be of relevance in the formulation of policies for the treatment and control of viral haemorrhagic fevers . The prevalence of LVD was 5 . 4% among children with clinically undifferentiated fever ( n = 243 ) ; 3 . 9% among those with convulsions associated with fever ( n = 77 ) and 6 . 0% among those with fever but no convulsions ( n = 166 ) . The results underscore the importance of LVD as a cause of acute undifferentiated fever . The results also underscore the need of diagnostic testing for LVD in children with acute undifferentiated fever in endemic areas in order to facilitate control , including the prevention of nosocomial transmission .
MORE AXILLARY GROWTH2 ( MAX2 ) is a central regulator of both strigolactone and karrikin ( KAR ) signaling pathways , which control many aspects of plant growth and development . MAX2 promotes plant resistance to drought . Application of a strigolactone analog enhances plant adaptation to drought , implying that strigolactone signaling regulates this trait; however , the potential contributions of the KAR signaling pathway to plant drought responses have not been explored . In this study , the functions of the KAR receptor KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2 ( KAI2 ) were analyzed to elucidate the role of KAI2-mediated signaling in plant drought adaptation . Our results indicate that the KAI2 signaling positively regulates drought resistance of Arabidopsis plants by both drought avoidance and drought tolerance strategies , such as through enhancing cuticle formation , stomatal closure , cell membrane integrity and anthocyanin biosynthesis . Our findings provide potential for manipulation of KAR- and/or strigolactone-mediated signaling pathways for improvement of drought resistance .
Schistosomiasis affects over 200 million people globally . An anti-schistosome vaccine is not currently available . Schistosome eggs play a critical role in host pathology and the transmission of schistosomiasis; thus a vaccine targeting parasite fecundity and/or egg viability represents a realistic strategy for blocking transmission , promoting disease control in endemic areas . Based on our previous studies on the insulin receptors ( SjIRs ) of Schistosoma japonicum , as potential vaccine candidates , we have now further investigated the impact of insulin signaling on the growth , development , sexual maturation and egg production of adult schistosomes . Protein binding assays and RNAi strongly support our hypothesis that the insulin pathway in schistosomes is activated by the binding between host insulin and the parasite IRs , regulating the transcription of downstream genes integrally involved in glucose uptake and fecundity in these parasites . This feature was reflected in the striking decreased glucose levels of worms when the SjIRs were knocked down . Furthermore , the importance of the SjIRs in the growth and fecundity of adult S . japonicum was further demonstrated in murine vaccine trials using a low dose cercarial challenge which resulted in depressed female growth and faecal egg production in mice vaccinated with the recombinant L1 subdomains of SjIR1 and SjIR2 .
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a global health problem , with over 120 million people affected annually . The current LF elimination program is focused on administering anti-filarial drugs to the entire at-risk population via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) . While the MDA program is proving effective in many areas , other areas may require augmentative measures such as vector control . An example of the latter is provided by some regions of the South Pacific where Aedes polynesiensis is the primary vector . Here , we describe a novel vector control approach based upon naturally occurring Wolbachia bacterial infections . Wolbachia are endosymbiotic intracellular bacteria that cause a form of sterility known as cytoplasmic incompatibility . We show that introgression crosses with mosquitoes that are infected with a different Wolbachia type results in an A . polynesiensis strain ( designated ‘CP’ ) that is incompatible with naturally infected mosquitoes . No difference in mating competitiveness is observed between CP males and wild type males in laboratory assays . The results support continued development of the strategy as a tool to improve public health .
Sleeping sickness ( human African trypanosomiasis - HAT ) is a disease transmitted by tsetse flies and is always fatal if left untreated . The disease occurs in foci affecting poor communities with limited access to health service provision and as such the disease is often left undiagnosed , mistaken for more common afflictions . Even if diagnosed , sleeping sickness is costly to treat , both for health services and patients and their families in terms of costs of diagnosis , transport , hospital care , and the prolonged period of convalescence . Here we estimate the health burden of the “acute form” T . b . rhodesiense sleeping sickness in Urambo District , Tanzania in terms of Disability Adjusted Life Years ( DALYs ) , the yardstick commonly used by policy makers to prioritize disease management practices , representing a year of healthy life lost to disease . In this single district , the burden of the disease over one year was estimated at 979 DALYs and the estimated monetary costs to health services for the 143 treated patients at US$ 11 , 841 and to the patients themselves at US$ 3 , 673 for direct medical costs and US$ 9 , 781 for indirect non-medical costs . Sleeping sickness thus places a considerable burden on the affected rural communities and health services .
Ngly1 is a cytoplasmic de-N-glycosylating enzyme that is ubiquitously found in eukaryotes . This enzyme is involved in a process referred to as endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation ( ERAD ) , one of the quality control mechanisms for newly synthesized proteins . A genetic disorder , NGLY1-deficiency , caused by mutations in the NGLY1 gene has recently been discovered . However , the precise mechanism for the pathogenesis of this devastating disease continues to remain unclear . We report herein that Ngly1-deficient mice are embryonically lethal in a C57BL/6 background . Surprisingly , the lethality was suppressed by crossing the mice with an outbred mouse strain ( ICR ) , suggesting that the phenotypic consequence of Ngly1 is greatly influenced by their genetic background . In both cases , the additional deletion of Engase in Ngly1-deficient mice could strongly mitigate the phenotypes . Interestingly , the remaining defects in Ngly1-deficient or Ngly1/Engase-deficient mice were reminiscent of the symptoms of subjects with an NGLY1-deficiency . Our results clearly point to the importance of Ngly1 in mammals and show that the inhibition of ENGase represents an effective therapy for treating an NGLY1-deficiency . Most importantly , the mice described herein could serve as valuable viable model mice for studies related to the pathophysiology of an NGLY1-deficiency .
Noise is an intrinsic part of biochemical systems such as gene regulation networks . Noisy gene expression has been well documented in populations of single cells , and is likely a key mechanism in evolutionary change . But in developing embryos , cells within a tissue must overcome such variability in order to provide the uniformity required to coordinate multiple events . Reproducibility and determinacy of the spatial protein patterns preceding tissue differentiation is a critical aspect of development . In this study , we use anterior-posterior ( AP ) segmentation in the fruit fly ( Drosophila ) to understand how gene regulation dynamics control noise . One of the earliest AP patterning events is the anterior activation of the hunchback ( hb ) gene by the maternally-derived Bicoid ( Bcd ) protein gradient . This interaction has been very well characterized , providing the tools for us to develop a stochastic model of hb gene regulation to make predictions about expression noise , and to corroborate these experimentally . For hb , we show that self-regulation is a critical part of controlling noise , and the multiple Bcd binding sites in the hb promoter also enhance pattern reproducibility . To the degree that such features are shared by other genes , these noise-reducing mechanisms may be common to many pattern forming events .
A small percentage of Neanderthal DNA is present in the genomes of many contemporary human populations due to hybridization tens of thousands of years ago . Much of this Neanderthal DNA appears to be deleterious in humans , and natural selection is acting to remove it . One hypothesis is that the underlying alleles were not deleterious in Neanderthals , but rather represent genetic incompatibilities that became deleterious only once they were introduced to the human population . If so , reproductive barriers must have evolved rapidly between Neanderthals and humans after their split . Here , we show that observed patterns of Neanderthal ancestry in modern humans can be explained simply as a consequence of the difference in effective population size between Neanderthals and humans . Specifically , we find that on average , selection against individual Neanderthal alleles is very weak . This is consistent with the idea that Neanderthals over time accumulated many weakly deleterious alleles that in their small population were effectively neutral . However , after introgressing into larger human populations , those alleles became exposed to purifying selection . Thus , rather than being the result of hybrid incompatibilities , differences between human and Neanderthal effective population sizes appear to have played a key role in shaping our present-day shared ancestry .
After HIV genome integration into the host chromosome , the viral promoter coordinates a complex set of inputs to control the establishment of viral latency , the onset of viral gene expression , and the ensuing gene expression levels . Among these inputs are chromatin structure at the site of integration , host transcription factors , and the virally encoded transcriptional regulator Tat . Importantly , transcriptional noise from host and viral transcriptional regulators may play a critical role in the decision between replication versus latency , because stochastic fluctuations in gene expression are amplified by a Tat-mediated positive transcriptional feedback loop . To evaluate the individual contributions of key transcription factor binding elements in gene expression dynamics , we employ model HIV viruses with mutations introduced into numerous promoter elements . Extensive analysis of gene expression dynamics and transcription factor recruitment to the viral promoter reveals that each site differentially contributes to viral gene expression and to the establishment of a low expression state that may contribute to viral latency . This systems-level approach elucidates the synergistic contributions of host and viral factors to the dynamics , magnitudes , and stochastic effects in viral gene expression , as well as provides insights into mechanisms that contribute to proviral latency .
The identification of orthologs , pairs of homologous genes in different species that started diverging through speciation events , is a central problem in genomics with applications in many research areas , including comparative genomics , phylogenetics , protein function annotation , and genome rearrangement . An increasing number of projects aim at inferring orthologs from complete genomes , but little is known about their relative accuracy or coverage . Because the exact evolutionary history of entire genomes remains largely unknown , predictions can only be validated indirectly , that is , in the context of the different applications of orthology . The few comparison studies published so far have asssessed orthology exclusively from the expectation that orthologs have conserved protein function . In the present work , we introduce methodology to verify orthology in terms of phylogeny and perform a comprehensive comparison of nine leading ortholog inference projects and two methods using both phylogenetic and functional tests . The results show large variations among the different projects in terms of performances , which indicates that the choice of orthology database can have a strong impact on any downstream analysis .
The rise of resistance through the intensive use of drugs targeted to treat specific infectious diseases means that new therapeutics are continually required . Diseases common in the tropics and sub-tropics , classified as neglected tropical diseases , suffer from a lack of new drug treatments due to the difficulty in developing new drugs and the lack of market incentive . One such disease is schistosomiasis , a major human helminth disease caused by worms from the genus Schistosoma . It is currently treated by a 40-year old drug , praziquantel , but its widespread use has led to signs of drug-resistance emerging , with no alternative effective treatments available . To meet this challenge , we have developed an innovative computational drug repurposing pipeline supported by experimental phenotypic screening . Protein kinases emerged from our pipeline as interesting new biological targets . Given that many human kinase inhibitors have been successfully applied specially in cancer therapy and kinases have conserved structures and functions , we also undertook a detailed analysis of the kinases present in all infective Schistosoma species and human host . This allowed identification of new Schistosoma-specific kinase targets and suggest approved drugs to be used for treating schistosomiasis as well as opening new avenues to treat this neglected disease .
Protein-protein interactions are central to many physiological processes . Traditionally , the atomic structure of the isolated proteins , as obtained from X-ray crystallography or NMR spectroscopy , has been thought to determine the molecular recognition and binding process . However , this view has been challenged by the discovery of natively unstructured proteins , including many human transcription factors , which assume ordered molecular structures only upon binding to their targets . Understanding these transitions from a dissociated and unfolded state to a bound and folded state is key to unraveling how transcription factors , proteins involved in the system that controls the transcription of genetic information from DNA to RNA , perform their function . We conducted molecular simulations to study the binding of a well characterized transcription/co-transcription factor complex . We found that the transcription factor is unstructured when binding to its partner , with folding into an ordered structure occurring only after the initial binding event . The resulting coupled folding-and-binding mechanism is found to be in accord with state-of-the-art experimental data . Transcription-factor binding in an unstructured state may confer an advantage in protein target recognition by accelerating the rate of association without compromising the ability to bind to a diverse set of proteins with high specificity and yet relatively low affinity .
Schistosomiasis ( Schistosoma spp ) is an intestinal parasitic infection that causes anaemia , stunted growth , impaired cognition , and decreased physical fitness among other pathological effects . Currently , the control of schistosomiasis relies principally on mass drug administration of praziquantel . In addition , the implementation of further interventions such as snail ( intermediate host ) control , improving access to safe water and sanitation are required to achieve elimination of transmission in humans . An updated epidemiological situation will help countries to design tailor-made interventions enabling a step-up in prevention and control measures with the goal of elimination of transmission of this disease by 2020 . In the region of the Americas , Schistosoma mansoni is the only species present that infect humans . This systematic review shows that in this region there is a need for re-mapping the schistosomiasis epidemiological situation in certain areas and countries in order to implement and optimize the best public health interventions needed to interrupt transmission or verify elimination of transmission . The methodology for monitoring and evaluating schistosomiasis control programs are well defined by current WHO guidelines . However , further investigations and guidelines on suitable tools for monitoring and evaluating schistosomiasis elimination programs and criteria and procedures for validating the elimination are required , and are currently being undertaken by WHO .
Despite the available HIV-1 diversity present in a chronically infected individual , single viral variants are transmitted in 80–90% of heterosexual transmission events . These breakthrough viruses may have unique properties that confer a higher capacity to transmit . Determining these properties could help inform the rational design of vaccines and enhance our understanding of viral transmission . We isolated the transmitted variant and a set of related non-transmitted variants from the transmitting partner near the estimated date of transmission from six epidemiologically linked transmission pairs to investigate viral correlates of transmission . The simplest explanation that transmitted variants are inherently more infectious or faster replicators in vitro did not hold true . In addition , transmitted variants did not replicate more efficiently than their non-transmitted counterparts in dendritic cells or in the presence of interferon-alpha in vitro , suggesting that they are not uniquely adapted to these components of the innate immune system . More ancestral genomes that were relatively sensitive to antibody neutralization tended to transmit , supporting previous reports that mutational escape away from the adaptive immune response likely reduces the ability to transmit . Our investigation into the traits of transmitted HIV-1 variants adds to the understanding of viral determinants of transmission .
The nematode parasites Brugia malayi and Wuchereria bancrofti are the major organisms responsible for lymphatic filariasis . Lymphatic filariasis is characterized by the dysfunction of the lymphatics that can lead to severe ( and often ) irreversible lymphedema and elephantiasis . Current advances in distinguishing blood vascular from lymphatic endothelial cells have allowed the direct study of the interaction between live filarial parasites and their lymphatic niche . In the quest towards understanding parasite-lymphatic endothelium interactions , we observed that the filarial antigens have a specific but differential stimulatory capacity towards the lymphatics and cause them to differentiate into tube-like vascular networks in vitro that resemble the formation of collateral lymphatics in vivo . This was a lymphatic-specific phenomenon , as the filarial parasites or antigen did not exhibit similar effects on the human umbilical vein endothelial cells . The differentiation of the lymphatic endothelial monolayers into vascular networks was not dependent on typical markers of lymphangiogenesis but rather involves the matrix metalloproteases and their inhibitors that suggest lymphatic matrix remodeling rather than rendering of the lymphatics hyper-permeable as has been postulated previously .
It is often challenging to manipulate or analyze the genetic material or genome of an individual cell . Biochemical DNA amplification technologies can be used to make many copies of the genome from a single cell , and in this paper we investigated how well such amplification works as a function of the reaction volume . We found that single-cell genome amplification in nanoliter volumes is much more effective than in microliter volumes , providing better representation of the starting genome with less bias in the product . It should therefore be possible to obtain high-quality genome sequences from single cells . This is useful because very few microbes can be obtained in pure culture , and are therefore only amenable to single-cell analysis .
Hantaviruses cause disease in people , mainly following transmission from wild rodents to people through contact with infected excreta . Wild rodents use different habitats , and many survive even in anthropogenically changed environments , but to an unknown extent . The objective of our study was to understand how these rodents respond to habitat change in the landscape , to biodiversity and to climate . We measured the proportion of pathogenic hantavirus hosts in the rodent community . We then investigated the spatial correspondence between this proportion and a vulnerability to pathogenic hantavirus infection index in humans within the Atlantic Forest . We found 12 well represented species of rodents that can carry at least one hantavirus genotype . Despite high variation in the host proportion data , the peaks of human vulnerability to disease occurs at higher levels of habitat diversity in the landscape , intermediate levels of rainfall , and areas with less than 15 species in the local small mammal community . Our results suggest hantavirus surveillance and prevention measures are needed in the south and south-east regions of Brazil where highest host proportions and levels of vulnerability spatially match .
The genus Flavivirus including Japanese encephalitis virus , Dengue virus , and Zika virus all of which are mosquito-borne human pathogen and cause serious diseases in humans . Therefore , the development of effective vaccines and antivirals against several flaviviruses is still needed . BCL2 family proteins control mitochondria-mediated apoptosis to maintain cell homeostasis via the removal of damaged cells and pathogen-infected cells , deregulation of which leads to severe diseases including cancer and autoimmune diseases . Here , we showed that BCLXL is a critical cell survival factor during infection with flaviviruses , and that inhibition of BCLXL by treatment with BH3 mimetics restricts the production of infectious particles and the expression of chemokines in vitro and in vivo . Inhibition of BCLXL induces apoptosis in cells infected with flaviviruses and these cells are quickly removed by engulfment of phagocytes , which leads to inhibition of virus dissemination without any inflammatory reaction . Based on these data , BCLXL would appear to be a suitable target for the development of novel antivirals against a broad range of flavivirus infections .
With few exceptions , canine rabies is endemic in developing countries . The mortality rate of rabies approaches 100% . However , disease is preventable via the timely administration of post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) following a rabid animal bite . Additionally , canine rabies can be controlled in dog populations through mass vaccination . Economics drive the majority of policy and decision making and as such , a robust understanding of the cost of prevention and control methods is useful for the development and implementation of rabies management strategies . The majority of afflicted individuals are poor and reside in rural regions , where knowledge of rabies is minimal and access and affordability of PEP are limited . A greater emphasis on mass dog vaccination is a cost effective method of eliminating canine rabies at the source , which decreases the need for human PEP and reduces the burden of human mortality within vulnerable populations .
The type 2 secretion system ( T2SS ) is a sophisticated , multi-component molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . In Vibrio cholerae , for example , the T2SS mediates the secretion of cholera toxin . We find that there are three distinct forms of T2SS , based on the sequence characteristics of the secretin . A targeting paradigm , developed for the Klebsiella-type secretin PulD , could not previously be applied to the T2SS in Vibrio cholerae and many other bacterial species whose genomes encode no homolog of the crucial targeting factor PulS ( also called OutS , EtpO or GspS ) . Using bioinformatics we find , remarkably , that these bacteria have instead evolved a structurally distinct protein to serve in place of PulS . We crystallized and solved the structure of this distinct factor , AspS , measured its activity in novel assays for T2SS assembly , and show that the protein is essential for the function of the Vibrio-type T2SS . A structural homolog of AspS found here in Pseudomonas suggests widespread use of the pilotin-secretin targeting paradigm for T2SS assembly .
Leptospirosis is a potentially fatal disease in humans and livestock caused by Leptospira bacteria . Effective antibiotic treatment depends on timely , accurate diagnosis . However , current diagnostic and vaccine options are limited by their specificity for the lipid-sugar coat of leptospires , which varies among 200 serum-reactive groups . We aim to understand how leptospires infect a host , and in turn , to develop broadly effective diagnostic and immunization products . We recently described OmpL37 , a new protein on the surface of leptospires . Here , we show it is made by pathogenic strains , suggesting it can be a target for detecting and protecting against a wide range of Leptospira . Moreover , leptospirosis patients and hamsters infected with leptospires make antibodies against OmpL37 . Purified OmpL37 binds host proteins , including human elastin , fibrinogen , fibronectin , and mouse laminin . Although other leptospiral proteins bind multiple host proteins , OmpL37 has novel preferential affinity for skin and aorta elastin , suggesting a role in a common route of transmission through abraded skin and exposed blood vessels . Indeed , OmpL37 binding and leptospiral attachment to elastin are both enhanced by OmpL37 antiserum , further implicating a possible role for OmpL37 during infection . Thus , OmpL37 may mediate host attachment and has potential clinical application with a broad range of Leptospira .
Most people who become infected with HIV generate a strong antibody response to the infecting virus population . Unfortunately , the protection offered by the antibody is short lived as the virus rapidly mutates and renders the antibodies impotent in preventing further infection . There are a few antibodies , however , that have been isolated from infected individuals that can block infection by many different viral strains . Among these are several that target sites on the HIV that are exposed only after the virus has attached to a cell . These antibodies have a brief window of time to prevent fusion of the virus and cell . They are special in that they bind both to the viral membrane and to sequences on the gp41 protein that lie along the viral surface . Here , we present a model that predicts the concentrations at which these antibodies effectively neutralize the virus . The model tells us what properties of antibody binding are key in determining efficient neutralization and what properties have little influence . A prediction of the model is that in a standard neutralization assay there are only a small number of attachments between virus and cell and disabling these is sufficient to prevent infection .
The control of onchocerciasis , or river blindness , is based on annual or six-monthly treatment with ivermectin of populations at risk . This has been effective in controlling the disease as a public health problem but it was not known whether it could also eliminate infection and transmission to the extent that treatment could be safely stopped . Many doubted that this was feasible in Africa . A study was undertaken in three hyperendemic onchocerciasis foci with seasonal transmission in Mali and Senegal where treatment has been given for 15 to 17 years . As a result of this treatment , infection and transmission levels had fallen everywhere below postulated thresholds for elimination . Treatment was therefore stopped in each focus . Follow-up evaluations up to 5 years after the last treatment showed no evidence of recrudescence after stopping treatment but instead a consistent decline in infection and transmission levels , reaching zero in two sites . The study has established the proof-of-principle that onchocerciasis elimination with ivermectin treatment is feasible in at least some endemic foci in Africa . The results of the study have greatly contributed to the current evolution from onchocerciasis control to elimination in Africa .
Human rhinovirus ( HRV ) is a non-enveloped virus of the picornavirus family and is responsible for respiratory infections ( common colds ) costing billions of dollars ( $ ) annually . There remains no vaccine or licensed drug to prevent or reduce infection . Related members of the picornavirus family include significant pathogens such as poliovirus , enterovirus 71 and foot-and-mouth disease virus , for which improved control measures are also required . A fundamental step in virus infection is the delivery of the viral genetic material through the barrier of the cellular membrane . Viruses such as HIV and influenza are enveloped in an outer membrane which can fuse with the host cell membrane to allow the viral genome to penetrate into the cytoplasm . However , non-enveloped viruses such as picornaviruses lack a membrane and the mechanisms for penetration of the membrane by these viruses remain poorly understood . The capsid protein VP4 has previously been implicated in the delivery of the picornavirus genome . In this study we demonstrate that HRV VP4 interacts with membranes to make them permeable by the formation of multimeric , size-selective membrane pores with properties consistent with the transport of viral genome through the membrane . This function of VP4 provides a novel antiviral target for this family of viruses .
Bacterial pathogens modify outer membrane components , such as lipid A or endotoxin , the lipid anchor of lipopolysaccharide , to enhance the ability to colonize , spread to different tissues , and/or avoid the host's immune defenses . Lipopolysaccharide also plays an essential role in maintaining membrane integrity and is a key factor in host innate immune recognition of Gram-negative bacterial infections . Francisella tularensis is the causative agent of the human disease tularemia and is classified as a category A select agent . Francisella novicida ( Fn ) is the murine counterpart of F . tularensis . The structure of Francisella spp . lipid A is unique in that it is modified by various carbohydrates that play a role in virulence and altered endotoxicity . In our study , we identified and defined the role of three genes involved in the carbohydrate modification of the base Fn lipid A structure . We showed that the lack of specific modification ( s ) of the Fn lipid A molecule lead to bacterial attenuation and activation of a protective immune response against a lethal wild-type infection . Therefore , alteration of Francisella lipid A structure may represent a pathogenesis strategy common to the Francisella species , and specific lipid A mutant strains may be candidates for inclusion in future vaccine studies .
The bacterial ribosome is an essential cellular component and as such is the target for a number of currently used antimicrobials . Correct assembly of this complex macromolecule requires a number of accessory enzymes , the functions of which are poorly characterised . Here we examine the function of Era , a GTPase enzyme involved in 30S ribosomal subunit biogenesis in the important human pathogen S . aureus . We uncover that Era is not an essential enzyme in S . aureus , as it is in many other species , but is important for correct ribosome assembly . In a bid to determine a function for this enzyme in ribosomal assembly , we identify a number of protein interaction partners with roles in ribosomal RNA maturation or degradation , supporting the idea that Era acts as a hub protein facilitating ribosomal biogenesis . We also uncover a link between Era and the ( p ) ppGpp synthetase RelSau , revealing an additional level of control of rRNA processing by the stringent response . With this study we elaborate on the functions of GTPases in ribosomal assembly , processes that are controlled at multiple points by the stringent response .
Injection of pure anthrax lethal toxin ( LT ) at the levels found in terminally-ill , anthrax-infected animals induces an atypical vascular collapse in several experimental animals without the associated hemorrhagic manifestations and disseminated intravascular coagulopathies seen in bacteria-induced shock states . Nevertheless , LT alone produces the pleural edema that is a classic manifestation of anthrax . All the histopathological changes previously observed in LT-treated mice can be explained as predictable sequelae of vascular insufficiency . In this report , electron microscopic analysis was used to identify rapid and striking pathological changes in endothelial cells , myocytes , mitochondria , and the sarcoplasmic reticulum cisternae in the hearts of LT-challenged mice . These morphological changes were paralleled by release of very high levels of multiple cardiac injury biomarkers . LT-induced pathological changes occurred earlier and with markedly higher severity in nNOS knockout mice compared to wild-type or iNOS or eNOS knockout mice , reflecting the well-established role of nNOS in maintenance of cardiac function , and suggesting that nitric oxide produced by nNOS counteracts the damage induced by LT .
Parasitic worms are a widespread public health burden , yet very little is known about the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to their parasitic lifestyle . One of the major barriers to better understanding these mechanisms is that there are currently no available methods for making targeted gene knockouts in any parasitic worm species . Here , we describe the first mutant phenotype in a parasitic worm resulting from a targeted gene disruption . We applied CRISPR-Cas9-mediated mutagenesis to parasitic worms in the genus Strongyloides and developed a method that overcomes many of the challenges that have previously inhibited generating mutant parasitic worms . We characterize heritable mutant phenotypes and outline a toolkit that will be applicable to many other genes with potential roles in parasitism . Importantly , we developed our method for gene knockouts in a human-parasitic worm . By directly investigating the genes and molecular pathways that enable worms to parasitize humans , we may be able to develop novel anthelmintic therapies or other measures for preventing nematode infections .
Ribosomes often drop off the messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules during the process of translation . This phenomenon occurs under normal conditions and it is especially aggravated if the cell is subject to stress . In this paper we show that protein production rates and polysome profiles along the mRNA can be strongly affected by ribosome drop-off . It can lead to a non-intuitive increasing ribosome density profile from the 5’ to 3’ end , as well as coexistence between low and high ribosomal density along the mRNA . Importantly , we show that the repercussions of ribosome drop-off are mRNA-dependent , with the specific codon configuration and composition determining their resilience to ribosome drop-off effects .
Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) remain prevalent in many African , South American and Asian countries . The WHO recommends treating pre-school aged children ( pre-SAC ) and school-aged children ( SAC ) in areas with endemic STH infections . However , treating pre-SAC and SAC only is unlikely to achieve STH transmission interruption , as adults remain infected and contribute to re-infection in the community , particularly with hookworm . Treating the entire community with high-coverage and high-frequency mass drug administration ( MDA ) may achieve transmission interruption and ongoing community-based clinical trials are investigating the feasibility and impact of such an approach . Since large-scale trials are costly and STH prevalence may bounce back quickly to pre-treatment levels when MDA ceases , it may be more efficient to stop the trial when interruption of transmission can be ruled out . In these circumstances it may be necessary to investigate why transmission interruption was not achieved to inform necessary improvements in future community-wide treatment programmes . Factors that may affect the likelihood of transmission interruption include water , sanitation and hygiene ( WASH ) , sociodemographic , migration and environmental factors . These factors should be investigated in cases where interruption of transmission is not achieved . In this study , we investigate the stopping criteria required to determine whether transmission interruption has occurred following multiple rounds of MDA .
Cholera is a severe dehydrating diarrheal illness of humans caused by organisms Vibrio cholerae serogroups O1 or O139 serogroup organisms . Protective immunity against cholera is serogroup specific . Serogroup specificity in V . cholerae is determined by the O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . Generally , polysaccharides are poorly immunogenic , especially in young children . Unfortunately , children bear a large burden of cholera globally . Here we describe a novel cholera conjugate vaccine and show that it induces immune responses in mice , including memory responses , to OSP , the T cell-independent antigen that probably is the target of protective immunity to cholera . These responses were highest following immunization of the vaccine with a novel immunoadjuvant , dmLT . We also show that immunization of mice with this conjugate vaccine protects against challenge with wild-type V . cholerae . A protectively immunogenic cholera conjugate vaccine that induces long-term memory responses could have particular utility in young children who are most at risk of cholera .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida albicans are two medically important human pathogens that often co-infect or co-colonize the same human niches , such as the gut . In a normal healthy host , P . aeruginosa and C . albicans can colonize the gut without any significant pathologic sequelae . But in immunocompromised hosts , both pathogens can escape the gut and cause life-threatening disseminated infections . Yet the mechanisms and pathogenic consequences of interactions between these two pathogens within a living mammalian host are not well understood . Here , we use a mouse model of P . aeruginosa and C . albicans gut co-infection to better understand the mechanisms by which C . albicans inhibits P . aeruginosa infection . C . albicans inhibits the expression of P . aeruginosa genes that are vital for iron acquisition . Accordingly , deleting these iron acquisition genes in P . aeruginosa prevents infection . Understanding how microbes interact and antagonize each other may help us identify new potential therapeutic targets for preventing or treating infections .
Understanding how to contain HIV replication by the immune system is a key goal of vaccine strategies . HIV frequently mutates to avoid immune recognition , but this may come at a “fitness cost” , weakening the virus . When HIV is transmitted to a new host , the mutations often revert back to wild-type , allowing the virus to regain a fitter state . We found that when multiple HIV-like viruses are transmitted to monkeys , containing both mutant and wild-type , reversion to wild-type is very rapid and the fitter virus results in higher viral levels . In contrast , when only escape mutant virus initiates the infection , reversion to wild-type is delayed to later during early infection , and lower levels of virus result . Our results suggest that the composition of the infecting virus plays a role in determining the outcome of HIV infections . Strategies to maintain weakened virus strains during the early HIV infection may help the host control virus replication .
Understanding the genetic and molecular bases of adaptive mutations allows us to gain insight into how new biological functions evolve . In natural populations , examples in which adaptive mutations are characterized at the molecular level are still rare . We studied wild yeast strains isolated from Evolution Canyon ( EC ) , Israel , that exhibit an extremely high tolerance to the heavy metal cadmium . We found that high cadmium resistance was mainly caused by DNA sequence changes in the promoter of a metal transport gene , PCA1 . These mutations increase PCA1 gene expression , thus leading to a more efficient cadmium pump-out . Comparison among different yeast species shows that the critical nucleotides found in EC strains are conserved and functionally important for cadmium resistance in other species , suggesting that they represent an ancestral type . When the PCA1 sequence and the cadmium resistance in different S . cerevisiae populations collected globally were compared , we found that most populations carried weak PCA1 alleles and had a low cadmium tolerance . Since cells carrying the strong PCA1 allele grow slowly under low-cadmium conditions , it is likely that the tradeoff between cadmium resistance and growth rate drives the evolution of reduced cadmium tolerance in most S . cerevisiae populations .
Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of global cancer mortality . With current treatments , less than a quarter of patients survive longer than five years after surgery . Individual gastric cancers are highly disparate in their cellular characteristics and responses to standard chemotherapeutic drugs , making gastric cancer a complex disease . Pathway based approaches , rather than single gene studies , may help to unravel this complexity . Here , we make use of a computational approach to identify connections between molecular pathways and cancer profiles . In a large scale study of more than 300 patients , we identified subgroups of gastric cancers distinguishable by their patterns of driving molecular pathways . We show that these identified subgroups are clinically relevant in predicting survival duration and may prove useful in guiding the choice of targeted therapies designed to interfere with these molecular pathways . We also identified specific gastric cancer cell lines mirroring these pathway subgroups , which should facilitate the pre-clinical assessment of responses to targeted therapies in each subgroup .
DNA in vivo experiences regulated amounts of untwisting stress . If sufficiently large , these stresses can destabilize the double helix at specific locations . These sites then become favored locations for strand separations . Gene expression and DNA replication , the two major jobs of DNA , both require the strands of the duplex to be separated . Thus , events that affect the ease of strand separation can regulate the initiation of these processes . Stress-induced DNA duplex destabilization ( SIDD ) has been implicated in mechanisms regulating several biological processes , including the initiation of gene expression and replication . We have developed computational methods that accurately predict the locations and extents of destabilization within genomic DNA sequences that occur in response to specified stress levels . Here , we report that the easily destabilized sites we find in the Escherichia coli K12 genome are statistically significantly overrepresented in the upstream regions of genes encoding proteins that regulate transcription . In particular , the regions upstream of genes that directly respond to physiological and environmental stimuli are more destabilized than are those regions of genes that are not involved in these responses . These results suggest that strong SIDD sites upstream of participating genes may be involved in transcriptional responses to environmental changes .
Podospora anserina , a coprophilous fungus , is used extensively as a model organism to address questions of sexual development and mating-type functions . Its mating-type locus contains three HMGB genes that encode transcription factors involved in fertilization and fruit-body development . We present the functional characterization of the remaining HMGB genes , which revealed that 11 of 12 HMGB genes were involved in sexual development . An analysis of the relationships between these genes uncovered a regulatory network governing the expression of mating-type genes . PaHMG5 is a key transcription factor that operates upstream of mating-type genes in this network . A homolog of PaHMG5 performs a similar function in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe , which diverged from P . anserina 550 million years ago . The conservation of a regulatory circuit over such a prolonged timeframe is a striking exception to the general observation that sex developmental pathways are highly variable , even across closely related lineages . A module consisting of two HMGB transcription factors ( Sry and Sox9 ) is a key regulator of sex determination in mammals . We propose that the module containing PaHMG5 and mating-type HMGB genes is the fungal counterpart of the mammalian module , revealing a commonality of sex regulation in animals and fungi .
The 2013–2016 West African Ebola virus disease epidemic was unprecedented in the numbers of cases , deaths and survivors . Prior to this epidemic , limited data were available about the persistence of Ebola virus in body fluids of Ebola virus disease survivors and the related risk of transmission , including sexual transmission through survivors’ semen . As more data were urgently needed , a study was implemented in Sierra Leone during the epidemic response operation . When establishing this study , many factors were unknown and the findings needed to be urgently translated into practice . This publication summarizes the methodology used for study implementation and the key lessons learned . Strong community engagement helped rapidly initiate this study despite the difficult circumstances of an overwhelming epidemic in a country with few experienced researchers . Implementation was in two phases , first investigating the persistence of Ebola virus in semen only ( 100 adult men ) , and secondly , assessing its persistence in multiple body fluids ( semen or vaginal fluid , menstrual blood , breast milk; and urine , rectal fluid , sweat , saliva , tears ) of an additional 120 men and 120 women . Data from this study immediately informed national and global guidelines and demonstrated the need for semen testing programs . The lessons learned and study tools developed , supported rapid program implementation in Liberia and Sierra Leone .
Outside the laboratory , bacteria live in complex microenvironments characterized by competition for space and available nutrients . Although often inaccessible by experiments , understanding the spatio-temporal dynamics of bacterial microenvironments is biomedically important . For instance , the chemical environment that symbiotic Escherichia coli encounter in the human gut relates to health of the gastrointestinal tract , gut metabolism , immune response , and tissue homeostasis . Other complex microenvironments include soil and biofilms . Assuming that bacterial sensory systems have evolved to optimally sense typical gradients , we treat signaling data , the signaling pathway with its architecture and reaction rates , and computer simulations of swimming bacteria in different gradients as “prior knowledge” to “reverse engineer” E . coli's habitat . Our identified gradients are exponentially shaped with wide-ranging rate values . These microenvironments most likely stem from local fluctuating nutrient sources and degradation by competing species , in which bacteria have evolved to swim with optimal performance .
All hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) are characterized by the capacities to produce all blood cell-types by differentiation and to maintain their own population through self-renewal divisions . Every individual HSC , therefore , can generate a complete blood system , or clone , conveying oxygenation and immune protection for a limited time . The time for which all mature blood cell-types can be found in a clone is called the lifespan . Interestingly , HSCs with different lifespans co-exist in the same host . We address the unresolved question: what controls the lifespan of HSCs of the same genotype exposed to the same environment ? Here , we use a new approach to multi-scale modeling based on reliability theory and non-linear dynamics to address this question . Large-scale fluctuations in the experimental failure rate kinetics of HSC clones are identified to predict small-scale , genome level , events of deep penetrance , or magnitudes that approach population size . We broadly find that one condition explains our experimental data: repair mechanisms are a priori imperfect and do not improve , nor deteriorate , during the lifespan . As a result , progressively “worse-than-old” genome replicates are generated in self-renewal . A likely interpretation of our findings is that the lifespan of adult HSCs is determined by epigenetically pre-programmed differences in repair capacity .
Intestinal helminths present a pressing problem in developing countries with approximately 2 billion people suffering from chronic infection . To date no successful vaccines are available and a detailed mechanistic understanding of anti-helminth immunity is urgently needed to improve strategies for prevention and therapy . Antibodies form a crucial component of protective immunity against challenge infections with intestinal helminths . However , the exact mechanisms by which antibodies target these large multi-cellular parasites have remained obscure . We now demonstrate that helminth-specific antibodies induce the rapid trapping of tissue migrating helminth larvae by activating phagocytes . In the absence of antibodies or their receptors , helminth-infected mice developed extensive tissue damage , revealing a novel role for antibodies in limiting parasite-caused tissue disruption . Furthermore , helminth-specific antibodies reprogrammed macrophages to express wound-healing factors such as the arginine-metabolizing enzyme Arginase-1 . Interestingly , the Arginase-1 product L-ornithine directly impaired the motility of helminth larvae . In summary , our study provides detailed mechanistic insights into how antibodies can modulate phagocyte function to provide protection against a large multi-cellular parasite . Our findings suggest that novel anti-helminth vaccines should target the larval surface and activate wound-healing macrophages to provide rapid protection against tissue-disruptive larvae .
When chromosomes break , cells must repair them to avoid becoming abnormal , cancerous or dead . The most accurate repair mechanism is based on homologous recombination ( HR ) , in which single strands generated next to the break seek an intact replica which is copied into the broken site . Changes in chromosome dynamics during the early steps that create the single strands have not been analysed owing to lack of tools allowing analysis of this process in individual living cells . We have developed a method for directly observing the resection process that prepares DNA double-strand breaks for HR . This allows us for the first time to identify just those cells where breaks are being repaired , and so to analyze the repair mechanism with a precision not attainable using current visualization systems . We have observed that the broken DNA is prepared for restoration much faster than previously thought , and that DNA movement first slows dramatically , prior to the more pronounced movement previously seen to accompany later stages of repair .
Chagas disease is caused by a unicellular parasite mainly transmitted by blood-feeding bugs . The disease starts with an acute phase when the parasite multiplies in tissues . The immune system is then activated and almost clears the parasites before the host enters the chronic phase of the disease . As hosts remain exposed to the vectors , secondary contacts may result in re-inoculation with the parasite . The re-inoculated parasites then have to face an adaptive immune response that may prevent reinfection . There is little quantitative knowledge about the frequency of such re-inoculation and the efficiency of the immune system to prevent them . Since reinfections can lead to people carrying two or more strains of the parasite , we can potentially infer on the frequency of reinfection from the detection of such mixed infections . We fitted agent-based models to field data to estimate the frequency of reinfection in humans and its timing after primary infection . Our models predicted that most reinfections occur during the chronic phase as the adaptive immune response fails to prevent them in 20% of re-inoculations . Such a rate of failure is particularly important as reinfections are thought to increase the risk of heart damage in the chronic phase of the disease .
Dengue is one of the most prevalent mosquito-borne infectious diseases worldwide . It is caused by one of four viruses , types 1–4 , and ranges in severity from subclinical ( mild or no symptoms ) to dengue fever ( febrile illness with headache and bone pain ) , or less frequently , dengue hemorrhagic fever , where patients experience leaky blood vessels , sometimes significant bleeding , and may be severe enough to cause death . While many risk factors have been associated with development of severe dengue , sequential infection with different virus types is a major factor , implying that the immune response generated after an initial infection is partly responsible for making subsequent exposure clinically worse . This study sought to identify profiles of immune markers that correlate with increased or decreased risk of dengue . Using samples from individuals ~5 months prior to dengue virus infection , who later experienced either subclinical infection or overt disease , we modeled virus exposure in vitro and compared the production of various immune proteins between the two outcome groups . Three of the proteins studied were produced at higher levels by subjects who subsequently had dengue , and six of the proteins were produced at higher levels by subjects who subsequently had subclinical infection . These results help define what constitutes beneficial versus potentially harmful immune responses , aiding in the design of effective dengue vaccines .
Cells in a developing embryo require information about their position with respect to other cells in order to function and differentiate appropriately . The predominant current model suggests that cells acquire this positional information by measuring the local concentration of signaling molecules called morphogens . In the developing wing of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , the signaling molecule Hedgehog is distributed in a concentration gradient along the anterior–posterior axis and specifies at least three different domains of gene expression . Although there is a clear correlation between the Hedgehog extracellular gradient and the location of these gene expression domains , a direct correspondence between the borders of these patterns and local Hedgehog concentrations has not been demonstrated . Using computer simulations of the Hedgehog signaling network , we provide evidence that direct sensing of a static morphogen gradient is not sufficient to specify the observed cellular responses . We propose instead an alternative model for how cells define their position by interpreting the Hedgehog gradient . Our model suggests that , rather than simply make a precise measurement of the morphogen concentration to which cells are exposed at any given time , cells instead take into account their previous history of Hedgehog exposure . We provide experimental evidence that supports our model , and conclude that gradient dynamics are required for Hedgehog-dependent patterning in this system .
Alcoholism is costly to both individuals and society . Studies of twins indicate that there is a substantial genetic component to this disease; however , it has been difficult to identify underlying genetic factors in humans , in part because of the small effect of any one gene . Because of their genetic uniformity , subtle effects on behavior of single gene deletions can be detected in inbred mice and used to model human disease . Here we describe the identification of a new mouse mutant , named Lightweight , with altered response to alcohol and inhaled anesthetics . Lightweight mice are dramatically hypersensitive to a high-dose injection of alcohol . In addition , when given a choice , Lightweight mutants voluntarily consume more alcohol than non-mutant animals . Lightweight mice may provide novel insight into the mechanism of action of alcohol , and studies of this gene in humans may lead to a better understanding of alcoholism and its treatment .
The immune response of the mosquito vector of Plasmodium has proven to possess powerful anti-Plasmodium defense capabilities . As the major regulators of these immune responses , signaling pathways , particularly the Imd pathway which seems especially capable of eliminating malaria parasites , have become attractive candidates targets for malaria-control interventions . Although the general anti-parasitic activity of the Imd pathway has been established , the particular components of the pathway involved and the physiological conditions under which the pathway is capable of limiting infection are mostly unknown . Awareness of these major players and conditions is crucial for adapting the Imd pathway into an intervention strategy . We report that while several members of the Imd pathway are critical for such a response , others are dispensable . We also show that timing of the response with regard to infection and intensity of infection exposure both influence the effectiveness of an Imd-derived anti-Plasmodium response while the status of the gut flora does not . Taken together , this data lays the essential groundwork for effective intervention based on manipulation of this pathway that can severely limit mosquito infection with human malaria parasites .
This is the first study that evaluates the effect of BMMSCs therapy for lung fibrosis induced by the fungal pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis , the causative agent of paracoccidioidomycosis , one of the most important systemic endemic mycosis diagnosed in South America and Central America . Our findings showed an impaired anti-fibrotic effect of BMMSCs transplantation . This effect could be triggered by either the chronic inflammatory microenvironment induced by P . brasiliensis or by a direct interaction between BMMSCs and the fungus , resulting in an exacerbation of the pulmonary fibrosis . In fact , the pro-fibrotic effect exerted by BMMSCs was toned-down by the usage of the antifungal ITC .
Recent projections on global warming indicate a constant rise of temperatures in the Mediterranean subregion in the near-mid future . While this phenomenon already caused geographical expansion of several arthropod-borne diseases , it is likely to affect also temporal parameters of seasonally transmitted diseases such as leishmaniasis , a protozoan infection spread by the bite of phlebotomine sand flies . Phenology of sand flies consists in the periods of emergence of adults and their disappearance from collections following an activity period during warm months , which can be characterized by peaks of abundance . Current phenological observations can be important for continuing investigations on sand fly dynamics that may impact on leishmaniasis transmission in the future . With this aim , partners from eight Mediterranean countries identified sites with documented Leishmania infantum transmission by six different vector species and performed multiannual trappings . From the high number of 56 , 000 specimens collected throughout an area spanning from Portugal at west to Georgia at east , the current seasonal dynamics of Mediterranean vectors was obtained . Both , period of adults emergence and type of density trend were found to be significantly correlated with latitude or mean annual temperature of trapping sites . At the southernmost latitudes , vector activity started as early as begin of April and ended by late November , showing that the no-risk period of potential exposure to L . infantum lasted only 4 months .
Scrub typhus , a life-threatening disease that occurs in the Asia-Pacific region , is a public health problem since a billion of people are at risk and one million new cases arise each year . Orientia tsutsugamushi , the causal agent of scrub typhus , is an obligate intracellular bacterium that mainly infects endothelial cells . We demonstrated here that O . tsutsugamushi grew in monocytes isolated from healthy donors and altered the expression of a large number of genes including interferon-related genes , genes associated with the M1 polarization of macrophages and apoptosis-related genes . Importantly , these data were related to the transcriptional changes detected in mononuclear cells isolated from patients with scrub typhus . Indeed , the microarray analyses revealed the upregulation of numerous genes , which included interferon-related genes , and some features of M1 polarization . This is the first report demonstrating that monocytes are clearly polarized in vitro and ex vivo following exposure to O . tsutsugamushi . These results improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of scrub typhus and may give us a clue of new tools for the diagnosis of patients with scrub typhus .
We propose a model based directly on insect neuroanatomy that is able to account for the route following capabilities of ants . We show this mushroom body circuit has the potential to store a large number of images , generated in a realistic simulation of an ant traversing a route , and to distinguish previously stored images from highly similar images generated when looking in the wrong direction . It can thus control successful recapitulation of routes under ecologically valid test conditions .
Plants have a flexible development program that determine their form . We describe an organ level defense response in Arabidopsis to bacterial attack where plants simply shed heavily infected leaves . The genetics regulating this defense mechanism are comprised of both classical defense genes and floral organ abscission genes working together . Long-distance signals are transmitted from infected areas to abscission zones which activate the abscission receptor . Salicylic acid , a defense hormone , signaling is necessary for cauline leaf abscission .
The visual system dedicates substantial resources to detecting motion and its direction . For more than 40 years , researchers have tried to decipher the underlying computational mechanisms by which retinal neurons compute directed motion . One type of retinal interneuron involved in direction discrimination is the “starburst” amacrine cell . Starburst-cell dendrites are strongly activated by visual motion from their somata towards the dendritic tips , but not by motion in the opposite direction . It has been proposed , for example , that directional selectivity arises from lateral inhibitory interactions in which activated cells inhibit their neighbors . However , despite extensive modeling , the underlying physiological mechanism has remained elusive . Here , by combining whole-cell recordings , two-photon microscopy , and modeling , we show that discrimination of motion direction in starburst-cell dendrites does not require lateral inhibitory interactions in the retina , but can be generated by a “dendrite-autonomous” computation , which relies on intrinsic electrical mechanisms . Blocking inhibitory interactions does not eliminate directional responses , whereas differential activation of voltage-gated membrane conductances and a dendritic voltage gradient can provide the necessary spatial asymmetry to produce directional signals . The computation underlying dendrite-autonomous direction selectivity may represent one of the most intricate examples to date of dendritic information processing .
We found that mechanisms used by parasites to infect hosts are able to explain variation in two key pathogen traits: infective dose and virulence . In pathogens where the molecules secreted to facilitate infection acted locally , the number of cells required to start an infection ( infective dose ) , was lower than in pathogens where the secreted molecules act more distantly . Parasite virulence showed no correlation with local versus distant action , but was negatively correlated with infective dose , and greater in species that infect via wounded skin . By showing how such parasite life history details matter , our results help explain why classical trade-off models have been relatively unsuccessful in explaining broad scale variation across parasite species .
Schistosomes are parasitic helminths that infect a range of different animals causing great morbidity and some level of mortality among endemic populations in sub-Saharan Africa , southeast Asia and regions of south America . RNA has long been known as a translator of the message between DNA and protein . However , it is nowadays well accepted that RNA roles go beyond that of a translator . Such RNA molecules do not translate DNA into protein and are therefore referred to as non-coding RNAs . Here we study a particular type of RNA molecules called microRNA ( miRNA ) . These small RNA molecules are ~ 19–22 nucleotides ( nt ) in length and their most characterised function so far is that of regulating the bioavailability of messenger RNA for the production of protein . We call this effect post-transcriptional regulation . Previously , it has been shown that different stages of the Schistosoma parasites express different types of miRNAs . Our work focuses in utilising differences in gene expression as the readout of potential post-transcriptional regulation . Using bioinformatics tools we found that members of one miRNA family called miR-277/4989 might be responsible for the change in gene expression observed between juvenile and adult worms . Furthermore , the effect of this miRNA seems to be more prominent in the sexually matured females rather than in the immature “virgin” females .
Increasing evidence has been gathered to support the bat origin of SARS coronavirus ( SARS-CoV ) in the past decade . However , none of the currently known bat SARSr-CoVs is thought to be the direct ancestor of SARS-CoV . Herein , we report the identification of a diverse group of bat SARSr-CoVs in a single cave in Yunnan , China . Importantly , all of the building blocks of SARS-CoV genome , including the highly variable S gene , ORF8 and ORF3 , could be found in the genomes of different SARSr-CoV strains from this single location . Based on the analysis of full-length genome sequences of the newly identified bat SARSr-CoVs , we speculate that the direct ancestor of SARS-CoV may have arisen from sequential recombination events between the precursors of these bat SARSr-CoVs prior to spillover to an intermediate host . In addition , we found bat SARSr-CoV strains with different S proteins that can all use the receptor of SARS-CoV in humans ( ACE2 ) for cell entry , suggesting diverse SARSr-CoVs capable of direct transmission to humans are circulating in bats in this cave . Our current study therefore offers a clearer picture on the evolutionary origin of SARS-CoV and highlights the risk of future emergence of SARS-like diseases .
Current efforts to control soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections in humans in endemic countries involve the mass administration of drugs . The use of these same drugs for many years to control livestock nematodes has resulted in the emergence of significant levels of resistance . Hence , there is a need to manage the use of drugs against human STHs in order to reduce the likelihood of resistance developing . An important component of managing drug use will be an ability to detect drug resistance should it emerge . WHO and the World Bank are presently supporting initiatives to develop tools for detecting drug resistance in human STHs . The tool to be assessed in the short term is the faecal egg count reduction test ( FECRT ) . We have examined literature on an aspect of worm reproductive biology with potential to impact significantly on the FECRT . We describe the potential effects that density dependent egg production by female hookworms may have on interpretation of FECRT data . This study highlights a potential weakness in reliance on the FECRT for assessment of drug resistance in human hookworms , hence emphasising the need to develop more advanced worm bioassay and molecular methods .
Defective development of the respiratory system leads to congenital or postnatal respiratory disorders . Although it is well established that lung morphogenesis is guided by interactions of multiple morphogen signaling pathways in epithelium and mesenchyme , how their regulatory functions are controlled by cell surface and extra cellular matrix ( ECM ) molecules is still largely unknown . Heparan Sulfate ( HS ) glycosaminoglycans are widely presented on the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix depending on the attached core proteins , and are thought to be important for transducing FGF signaling . The function of HS during lung development has not been studied in vivo . Here , using mouse genetics , we demonstrate that epithelial HS biosynthesis is critically required for lung branching morphogenesis . We reveal an unexpected role of epithelial HS in restricting FGF signaling . We show that depletion of epithelial HS leads to a dramatic loss of biologically active form of SHH , which is required for ensuring a proper expression of Fgf10 . Our study demonstrates that the SHH-producing lung epithelial cells require HS to maintain the quality of the ligand at the source level and highlights epithelial HS as a critical regulator that dictates lung morphogenesis .
Cancer is driven by genomic mutations that can range from single nucleotide changes to chromosomal aberrations that rearrange large pieces of DNA . Often , these chromosomal aberrations disrupt a gene sequence , and even fuse the sequences of two genes , producing a “fusion gene . ” Fusion genes have been identified as key participants in the development of several types of cancer . Using genome-sequencing technology it is now possible to identify chromosomal aberrations genome-wide and at high resolution . In this paper , we address the question of how much sequencing is required to detect a chromosomal aberration and to determine the location of the aberration precisely enough to identify if a fusion gene is created by this aberration . We derive a mathematical formula that accurately predicts a number of fusion genes in a breast cancer sequencing study . We also demonstrate how the ability to detect chromosomal aberrations and fusion genes depends on both the size of the fusion gene and the parameters of the genome sequencing strategy that is used . These results will be useful in calibrating future cancer sequencing efforts , especially those using next-generation sequencing technologies .
Chemotaxis is the movement of cells in response to spatial gradients of chemical cues . While single-celled organisms rely on sensing and responding to chemical gradients to search for nutrients , chemotaxis is also an essential component of the mammalian immune system . However , chemotaxis can also be deleterious , since chemotactic tumor cells can lead to metastasis . Due to its importance , understanding the process by which cells sense and respond to chemical gradients has attracted considerable interest . Moreover , because of the complexity of chemotactic signaling , which includes multiple feedback loops and redundant pathways , this has been a research area in which computational models have had a significant impact in understanding experimental findings . Here , we propose a modular description of the signaling network that regulates chemotaxis . The modules describe different processes that are observed in chemotactic cells . In addition to accounting for these behaviors individually , we show that the overall system recreates many features of the directed motion of migrating cells . The signaling described by our modules is implemented as a series of equations , whereas movement and the accompanying cellular deformations are simulated using a mechanical model of the cell and implemented using level set methods , a method that allows simulations of cells as they change morphology .
Very little is known about splicing and its regulation in germ cells , particularly during meiosis . This paper describes the role of a male germ cell-specific protein , Tudor containing protein 6 ( TDRD6 ) , in assembly of the spliceosome in spermatocytes . We show that in prophase I TDRD6 interacts with the key protein methyltransferase of the splicing pathway PRMT5 . PRMT5 methylates arginines in substrate proteins . In a methylation dependent manner , TDRD6 also associates with spliceosomal core protein SmB in the absence of RNA , thus before an RNP-type spliceosome has been assembled . In Tdrd6-/- diplotene spermatocytes PRMT5’s association with SmB and arginine dimethylation of SmB are much reduced . Abrogation of arginine methylation impairs the assembly of spliceosomes and the presence of the spliceosomal RNA U5 is aberrantly increased . These deficiencies in spliceosome maturation correlate with decreased numbers of Cajal bodies and gems involved in later stages , i . e . nuclear snRNP maturation . To reveal functional consequences of these deficiencies , transcriptome analysis of primary spermatocytes showed high numbers of splicing defects such as aberrant usage of intron and exons as well as aberrant representation of splice junctions upon TDRD6 loss . This study reveals a novel function of TDRD6 in spliceosome maturation and mRNA splicing in spermatocytes
As colonizing bacterial populations are the source for much transmission and a reservoir for infection , they are a major focus of interest clinically and epidemiologically . Understanding the dynamics of colonization depends on being able to confidently identify acquisition and clearance events given intermittent sampling of hosts . To do so , we need a model of within-host bacterial population evolution from acquisition through the time of sampling that enables estimation of whether two samples are derived from the same population . Past efforts have frequently relied on empirical genetic distance thresholds that forgo an underlying model or employ a simple molecular clock model . Here , we present an inferential method that accounts for the timing of sample collection and population diversification , to provide a probabilistic estimate for whether two isolates represent the same colonizing strain . This method has implications for understanding the dynamics of acquisition and clearance of colonizing bacteria , and the impact on these rates by factors such as sensitivity of the sampling method , pathogen genotype , competition with other carriage bacteria , host immune response , and antibiotic exposure .
Plants continuously generate new organs through the activity of populations of stem cells called meristems . The shoot apical meristem ( SAM ) initiates leaves , flowers , and lateral organs in highly ordered , spiraled , or whorled arrangements via a process called phyllotaxis . Auxin , a plant hormone , plays an essential role in this process . It is actively transported from cell to cell by specific membrane-associated transporters . In the SAM , this coordinated transport creates organized auxin fluxes resulting in hormone accumulation at precise positions , where organ formation is triggered . One key question in this process is to understand how auxin transport is coordinated . To address this issue , we have investigated a specific hypothesis , the canalization hypothesis , whereby every cell senses and attempts to stabilize existing hormone fluxes . Because such a patterning process would require the interaction of hundreds of cells , it is impossible to estimate on a purely intuitive basis whether it would be able to generate the observed organ positions . We , therefore , developed a computational approach to test this hypothesis and showed that a flux-based mechanism is indeed able to generate phyllotactic patterns and is consistent with biological data describing meristem development .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by protozoan parasites of the Leishmania donovani complex . Without treatment , VL is fatal . Although diagnostic techniques , mainly based on the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies are available , invasive procedures such as microscopy from spleen or bone marrow aspirates are still required for the diagnosis of seronegative VL suspects , for the detection of recurrent cases and to confirm cure after successful treatment . Previous investigations showed the potential of IgG1 as a biomarker of post-chemotherapeutic relapse for VL in rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) sensitised with crude lysate antigen ( CLA ) . Here we employed in silico tools to search for desired protein features in a large number of L . donovani antigens detected by human IgG1 in western blots . We then employed prediction algorithms to profile epitopes from the shortlisted proteins . We screened a panel of high-scoring peptides in a high-throughput manner using arrays , with low reagent consumption . The most reactive peptide was adapted to RDTs , showing promising results of both sensitivity and specificity . This peptide has the potential of replacing the CLAs in IgG1 RDTs . Thus we believe that in silico tools can be used to optimise wet lab experiments for a rational search of biomarkers .
Cutaneous leishmaniasis displays a wide spectrum of clinical and microscopic findings . The microscopic manifestations have been categorized into five groups . The type of granulomatous response defined in group V is usually tuberculoid in nature with exceedingly rare cases described with necrotizing granulomas in contrast to cutaneous infections with tuberculosis and other mycobacteria that are typically associated with necrotic granulomas . The old world countries endemic for cutaneous leishmania also happen to be endemic for other granulomatous diseases such as leprosy , tuberculosis and cutaneous mycoses . The most common diagnostic approach used in these countries is still microscopic examination despite the advances in molecular diagnostic techniques and culture methods . We document an 18 . 2% incidence of caseating granulomas in cutaneous leishmania . Hence , cutaneous leishmania should be part of the differential diagnosis for cases with caseating granulomas in endemic regions in addition to other causative infections .
Type 2 diabetes in humans as well as in obese mice is caused by a combination of adipogenic and diabetogenic gene variants . We have identified a gene that appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of hyperglycaemia in obese mice: in some mouse strains , the gene Zfp69 is disrupted by a retroviral transposon ( IAPLTR1a ) , which generates a truncated mRNA . Disruption of the gene was associated with a reduced susceptibility for diabetes , whereas the normal allele enhanced hyperglycaemia in obese mice . Zfp69 encodes a transcription factor which appears to interfere with lipid storage in adipose tissue , and thereby enhances lipid deposition in liver . In humans with type 2 diabetes , mRNA levels of the human orthologue of Zfp69 ( ZNF642 ) were increased in adipose tissue . Thus , the transcription factor ZFP69/ZNF642 may be involved in the pathogenesis of obesity-associated diabetes .
T lymphocytes play a key role in the regulation of the immune response in mammals . Various T-helper subtypes ( Th1 , Th2 , Th17 , Treg , … ) have been identified over the years , characterised by the expression of specific transcription factors and cytokines , which have a critical influence on the selection of different immune responses , driving pro-inflammatory or allergic responses , promoting alternative antibody classes , or preventing ( auto ) immunity by inhibiting the activation and proliferation of other cells . To gain insight into the heterogeneity and the plasticity of late T-helper lineages , we have built an integrated model of the regulatory network and signalling pathways controlling Th cell differentiation . Relying on a logical modelling framework , we have performed a systematic series of simulations to assess the effects of heterogeneous environments on Th cell differentiation . We have identified stable states corresponding to canonical Th1 , Th2 , Th17 and Treg subtypes , but also to hybrid cell types co-expressing combinations of Th1 , Th2 , Treg and Th17 markers in an environment-dependent fashion . Our analysis highlights the nature of these cell types and their relationships with canonical Th subtypes .
During early stages of development , regulatory proteins bind DNA and control the expression of nearby genes , thereby driving spatial and temporal patterns of gene expression during development . But the biochemical forces that determine where these regulatory proteins bind are poorly understood . We gathered experimental data on the activities of several key regulators of early development of the fruit fly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) and developed a computational method to predict where and how strongly they will bind . We find that competition , cooperativity , and other interactions among individual regulatory proteins have a limited effect on their binding , while the global accessibility of DNA to protein binding has a significant impact on the binding of all factors . Our results suggest a practical method for predicting regulatory binding by combining experimental DNA accessibility assays with computational algorithms to determine where will binding occur among the accessible regions of the genome .
Precise control of cell proliferation is critical for normal development and tissue homeostasis . Members of the inhibitor of differentiation ( Id ) family of helix-loop-helix ( HLH ) proteins are key regulators that coordinate the balance between cell division and differentiation . These proteins exert this function in part by combining with ubiquitously expressed bHLH transcription factors ( E proteins ) , preventing these transcription factors from forming functional hetero- or homodimeric DNA binding complexes . Deregulation of the activity of Id proteins frequently leads to tumour formation . The Daughterless ( Da ) and Extramacrochaetae ( Emc ) proteins are the only members of the E and Id families in Drosophila , yet their role in the control of cell proliferation has not been determined . In this study , we show that the elimination of emc or the ectopic expression of da arrests cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle . Moreover , we demonstrate that emc controls cell proliferation via Da , which acts as a transcriptional repressor of the Cdc25 phosphatase string . These results provide an important insight into the mechanisms through which Id and E protein interactions control cell cycle progression and therefore how the disruption of the function of Id proteins can induce oncogenic transformation .
Signal transduction is a ubiquitous and essential mechanism regulating cellular functions , including responses to environmental stress . Dysfunction of signaling pathways results in a variety of diseases , including cancer , diabetes , and cardiovascular disease . Phosphorylation regulates the activity of signaling and target proteins at different cellular locations and controls activation and inactivation of signal pathways . Here , we provide an analysis of phosphoproteome datasets from yeast , utilizing kinase mutants versus wild type strains . In order to provide an objective approach to identify candidate proteins involved in the transition to a filamentous growth form , we proposed and applied a comprehensive pipeline incorporating statistical and mathematical methods to investigate the phosphoproteome data from multiple perspectives . This included phosphorylation variation in response to a single mutant , phosphorylation variation patterns over multiple mutants , and the relationships represented by these patterns . We make an effort to discover the components and targets of the signaling network , infer the network structure , and to find the relationships of changes of protein phosphorylation to cellular functions , specifically in response to stress in the context of filamentous growth .
Many species have heteromorphic sex chromosomes ( XY males or ZW females ) where one sex chromosome ( the Y or W ) has degenerated . In the somatic cells of mammals , worms , and flies , the X-to-autosome ratio of expression is equalized between the sexes by dedicated sex chromosome-specific dosage compensation systems . In the germline cells of male mammals and worms , however , the X chromosome is transcriptionally silenced early in meiosis . Here we have analyzed gene expression in Drosophila testes and show that the X chromosome lacks both of these types of chromosomal regulation . We find that X chromosome-wide dosage compensation is absent from most cells in the Drosophila male germline , and there is little or no evidence for X chromosome-specific inactivation during meiosis . However , another kind of sex-chromosome-specific regulation occurs . Testes-specific transgene reporters show much weaker expression when inserted on the X chromosome versus the autosomes , suggesting that some other , uncharacterized mechanism limits their expression from the X during spermatogenesis . The strong suppression of X-linked transgenes—but not X-linked endogenous genes—suggests that endogenous X-linked testes-specific promoters might have adapted to a suppressive X chromosome environment in the Drosophila male germline .
The so-called “attaching and effacing” ( A/E ) pathogens enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) and enterohemorrhagic E . coli ( EHEC ) cause serious human diarrheal infections by adhering to and damaging the intestinal epithelium . Previous work on the mouse A/E pathogen Citrobacter rodentium has established that host adaptive immune response and intestinal microbiota cooperate to control the epithelial infection and colonization with this pathogen . We found that this is complemented by a rapid pathogen-induced mucosal innate immune response that is essential to prevent excessive pathogenesis before adaptive immunity takes effect . Its effectiveness is demonstrated by the fact that it normally limits the duration during which the bacteria can induce epithelial lesions to the first 18 hours of infection . Later , luminal virulent bacteria can no longer induce new A/E lesions , but those induced already in the first 18 hours of infection persist through localized epithelial re-infection . Severity of the disease at the peak of infection is consequently shaped by the early events of the first 18 hours . This information may be important for the development of effective therapies and vaccines .
Understanding when two populations are composed of similar species is important for ecologists , epidemiologists , and population geneticists , and in principle it is easy: just sample the two populations , compare the sets of species identified in each , and count how many appear in both populations . In practice , however , this is difficult because sampling methods typically produce only a random subset of the total population , leaving current population overlap estimates biased . Knowing only the number of shared members between two of these partial population samples , this paper shows how we can nevertheless estimate the true overlap between the full populations , when those full populations’ sizes are known . Using Bayesian statistics , we can also compute credible intervals to produce error bars . We show that using this unbiased approach has a dramatic impact on the conclusions one might draw from previously published studies in the malaria literature , which used simple but biased methods . Because the method in this paper quantifies the tradeoff between sampling effort and uncertainty , we also show how to compute the number of samples required to ensure high-confidence results , which may be useful for planning future studies or budgeting lab reagents and time .
Eukaryotic protein kinases ( EPKs ) regulate over a third of the human proteome by transferring the γ-phosphate from adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to a protein substrate in a process known as protein phosphorylation . Biochemical and biophysical studies have shown that EPKs undergo multiconformational rearrangements in which the catalytic core is oscillating between open , intermediate , and closed conformations when active . Presently , the intramolecular interactions that regulate this dynamic process are not well understood . In this paper , we show how a set of conserved electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions harmoniously regulate the active state mechanics . The electrostatic interactions involve the highly conserved salt bridge between the lysine from subdomain-II and glutamate from subdomain-III as well as an interaction between the activation loop and αC-helix . The hydrophobic interactions include the nonlinear motifs known as the Regulatory spine and Shell that traverse both lobes of the catalytic core . Furthermore , our findings show that the highly conserved “catalytic lysine” is not directly required for phosphoryl transfer but rather serves as a hub that aligns and positions the dynamic core elements required for catalysis .
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is caused by infection with filarial worms that are transmitted by mosquito bites . Globally , 68 million are infected , with ~36 million people disfigured and disabled by complications such as severe swelling of the legs ( elephantiasis ) or scrotum ( hydrocele ) . The Global Programme to Eliminate LF ( GPELF ) aims to interrupt disease transmission through mass drug administration ( MDA ) , and to control illness and suffering in affected persons by 2020 . The World Health Organization recommends conducting Transmission Assessment Surveys ( TAS ) in school children aged 6–7 years , to determine if infection rates have dropped to levels where disease transmission is no longer sustainable . American Samoa made significant progress towards eliminating LF . Following seven rounds of MDA , American Samoa passed TAS in 2011–2012 and 2015 , with antigen prevalence of <1% . Despite passing TAS , recent studies have provided evidence of ongoing disease transmission in American Samoa , questioning the suitability of TAS for conducting surveillance after MDA has stopped . We compared a school-based survey of children aged 6–7 years and a community-based survey targeting people aged ≥8 years as tools for conducting post-MDA surveillance of LF . Our study provides recommendations for strengthening of post-MDA surveillance as countries approach the GPELF elimination targets .
Domesticated zebrafish use a polygenic mechanism for sex determination , where oocytes play a key role in both promoting primary female sex determination and maintenance of female sex in adults . All animals that cannot produce oocytes during the larval stage develop as males and adult females that cease oocyte production readily sex revert to a male phenotype . These results have led to the hypothesis that oocytes produce a signal that instructs the somatic gonad to develop as an ovary and to suppress testis development . In this report we present evidence that the oocyte-produced signaling protein Bmp15 is required for females to maintain their sexual phenotype , but plays no role in primary female sex determination . Specifically , zebrafish bmp15 mutants can initially develop as females , but during the juvenile stage they sex revert to fertile males . In addition , we show that the ovary-expressed estrogen- producing enzyme , Cyp19a1a aromatase , is a key somatic gonad-produced protein that promotes female development . Our results define for the first time , specific genetic components of the mechanism by which zebrafish promote and maintain their sex , and may also provide insight into the mechanism ( s ) that allows 2% of all teleost species to reverse their sex as adults .
Bilateral animals share a common genetic mechanism to control development along the anterior–posterior body axis , and transcription factors of the Hox class are key regulators of this conserved process . It is thought that Hox proteins drive morphological diversification of body segments by differentially controlling the expression of downstream genes . However , due to their highly conserved DNA binding domain , the homeodomain , Hox proteins alone bind to very similar and frequently occurring sequences in the genome . This implies that Hox proteins alone are likely insufficient to activate or repress their target genes in a proper spatio-temporal fashion . In contrast to this observation , Hox proteins have very specific effects during development and execute their function with high precision . A solution to this paradox could lie in the context-specific interaction of Hox proteins with other transcriptional regulators; however , only a few examples are known . By analysing the mechanism underlying the regulation of the Hox target gene reaper , we identified a set of eight transcription factors to be important for the precise spatio-temporal regulation of this gene . Based on our findings , we suggest that Hox proteins functionally interact with a plethora of unrelated transcription factors on small , yet complex enhancer elements to execute their specific functions throughout development of diverse organisms .
Plants possess an active , inducible disease resistance system , and induction of these responses depends in part on plant resistance proteins . Present understanding of these resistance proteins likens them to molecular switches that bind nucleotides to activate disease resistance responses . Previously it was shown that Activated Disease Resistance 1-like 2 ( ADR1-L2 ) , a plant disease resistance protein , is important in the immune response , but can function in the contexts analysed independently of what is currently considered the canonical nucleotide switch activation . Here , we show that , in addition to these previously reported functions , ADR1-L2 also works as a typical , activated disease resistance protein . We use an autoactive mutant form of the protein and show that it promotes disease resistance . We find that ADR1-L2 works in an EDS1-dependent feedback loop with salicylic acid , a hormone known to be essential for plant disease resistance . This work allows us to broaden the understanding of how plant disease resistance proteins function to generate defense against pathogens .
DNA methylation is a conserved epigenetic mark that is required for the silencing of transposons and introduced transgenes in eukaryotes . An RNA-directed DNA methylation pathway mediates de novo DNA methylation and thereby leads to transcriptional silencing in Arabidopsis . In this study , we find that two RNA-directed DNA methylation components interact with the microrchidia ( MORC ) protein MORC6 and lead to transcriptional silencing through a mechanism that is distinct from the RNA-directed DNA methylation pathway . MORC6 was previously thought to mediate transcriptional silencing through heterochromatin condensation . Our study suggests that the interaction of the RNA-directed DNA methylation components with MORC6 may mediate a link between DNA methylation and heterochromatin condensation .
Genetic variation is not always expressed as a single consistent phenotype even in familial diseases . Unilateral malformations in paired organs , such as the failure of an eye to develop on one side only , also remind us that gene function is often modified by environmental factors . Following observations by others in fruit flies , we explored the underlying mechanisms for such phenotypic fluctuation , using zebrafish as a vertebrate model . Earlier work suggested involvement of chaperone proteins like Hsp90 , which assist with normal protein folding during development and also work overtime to keep proteins functional in response to environmental stress . Using specific drugs at defined times in early development for the limited reduction of Hsp90 activity , we showed that different cryptic genetic variants could be revealed consistently in genetically distinct fish strains . Once uncovered , the frequency of these variants was increased by inbreeding , confirming the role of underlying genetic factors . Similarly , we could modify the phenotypic severity of some—but not all—known gene variants , worsening some and improving others . It emerged that the most susceptible variants were those carrying amino acid alterations , in which assisted protein folding may either restore near normal function or facilitate malfunction , thus worsening phenotype . This insight may allow us to prevent recurrent malformations by minimizing or perhaps even counteracting the effects of exposure to environmental stress during development .
Widely hailed as the workhorses of the cell , proteins participate in virtually every process within a living organism . How well they perform these diverse tasks depends on successful passage through the intricate course of protein production , from transcription of the protein-encoded DNA template to processing and folding of the nascent amino acid chain . Some of the processing steps—including enzymatic cleavage or the attachment of chemical modifications—take place during protein synthesis , while others occur afterward . One modification that takes place during protein synthesis is the attachment of an acetyl group at the tip ( N-terminus ) of proteins . Although N-terminal acetylation is found throughout the tree of life and the machinery and mechanisms responsible for this modification are quite well characterized , little is known about how it affects protein function . We analyzed the acetylation state of proteins in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and show that this modification occurs at a lower frequency in flies than in man but at a much higher frequency than in yeast . Based on our dataset we developed a generic method that can analyze the biological relevance of N-terminal protein acetylation in any organism .
RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) III is a multisubunit enzyme that synthesizes large amounts of transfer RNAs and a few other abundant short structural RNAs essential for the proliferation of all eukaryotic cells . To meet this demand , RNAP III must repeatedly initiate and terminate RNA synthesis with high efficiency , up to one million times on each tRNA gene per cell doubling . Much more research has been done on initiation than on termination . We performed a genetic screen focused on Rpc1 , the largest RNAP III subunit , after subjecting it to random mutagenesis and identifying single amino acid substitutions that specifically affected its ability to terminate . Over 120 mutations were isolated and mapped onto a recently published , near-atomic resolution structure of RNAP III in synthesis mode . Mutations were concentrated in mobile elements of the active center of the enzyme , the bridge helix and the trigger loop , as well as regions that help recruit the RNA 3' cleavage domain of the C11 subunit which transiently interacts with the active center . The data provide evidence that RNAP III controls termination via its active center . Biochemical characterization demonstrated that a mutant RNAP III synthesizes RNA at a higher rate than wild type and also synthesizes more RNA in vivo .
Understanding the functional role of every protein in the cell is a long-standing goal of cellular biology . An important step in this direction is to discover how and when proteins interact inside the cell to accomplish their tasks . Many of the cellular functions depend on reversible protein modifications like phosphorylation . To sense these modifications , cells have protein domains capable of binding phosphorylated proteins such as the SH2 domain . In this work , we show that it is possible to use the three-dimensional structure of protein domains to predict its binding preferences . Using a computational tool called FoldX , we have predicted the binding specificity of several human SH2 domains . These predictions , based on the computational analysis of the 3-D structure , were shown to be of similar accuracy as those obtained from experimental binding assays . We show here that it is also possible to understand how a mutation changes the binding preference of protein binding domains , opening the way for better understanding of some disease causing mutations . The combination of this novel computational approach with other sources of information allowed us to provide a set of high-confidence novel interactions for the proteins here studied .
Inside the cell , proteins need to be folded to be functional and active . Molecular chaperones are key enzymes that assist in folding proteins by stabilizing nascent polypeptide chains and by facilitating interactions that help stabilize a final structure . These chaperones also prevent the aggregation of newly formed proteins and can shunt misfolded proteins toward degradation pathways . In addition to interacting with newly synthesized proteins , chaperones also help to maintain cellular homeostasis by triaging toxic protein aggregates , which are responsible for causing neurodegenerative diseases . Two proteins that can form these toxic aggregates are tau and α-synuclein , which form tangles in Alzheimer’s disease and Lewy bodies in Parkinson’s disease , respectively . These proteins aggregate to form small , soluble aggregates termed oligomers and long fibrils often termed amyloids , both of which are thought to be toxic . Here we show that a chaperone , cyclophilin 40 ( CyP40 ) , interacts with and dissolves tau and α-synuclein aggregates . CyP40 may accomplish this by interacting with proline residues in these proteins , which are known to play a key role in fibril stability . We show that CyP40 both lowers tau fibrils and oligomers in mice that overexpress tau protein and preserves cognition in these transgenic animals .
Cyanobacteria filaments are paradigmatic examples of prokaryotic cellular differentiation and cooperative pattern formation . When a cyanobacteria filament is deprived of combined nitrogen , some vegetative cells differentiate into heterocysts , which are terminally differentiated nitrogen-fixing cells . Interestingly , most cells do not differentiate , but remain in their initial vegetative state . The coexistence of heterocysts and vegetative cells is essential for the survival of the filament since ( i ) heterocysts lose their photosynthetic capacity so they need vegetative cells around to be provided with a source of fixed carbon and ( ii ) cell division , i . e . reproduction , is only accomplished by vegetative cells . From such a paradigmatic example it is clear that differentiation processes are the result of the interplay of complex regulatory networks acting inside the cell and external stimuli , coming from both the adjacent cells and the environment . In this article we present an integrative approach that combines the study of internal regulatory processes , diffusion , and noisy environments in order to capture the key mechanisms leading to the differentiation of vegetative cyanobacteria into heterocysts and the subsequent pattern formation .
Onchocerciasis control in Africa has boomed with the ‘Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin’ program . Successes of this program over many African countries prompted the international community to set it as main strategy for elimination of onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis . In Cameroon , onchocerciasis prevalence in some areas is still higher than what was predicted , despite more than 15 years of mass treatment . Therefore , in the frame of enlargement of the treatment zones , there is a need for enriching local literature on changeable factors that influence adherence to ivermectin . In this study , we assessed possible association between systematic ivermectin intake and people’s beliefs/perceptions of the disease and the program in three neighbouring regions of the country . Beliefs on onchocerciasis and their associations with adherence may differ from one community to another within the same area of the country . Furthermore , among all the factors related to disease and program representations that were studied , perceptions of ivermectin campaign’s organization and of community drug distributor’s commitment are the ones that were most determinant in adherence to ivermectin . Efforts should be done by health authorities in the program implementation inside the communities , with better population ownership and ensuring of good community drug distributors’ work .
Every human being is unique , each with an individual risk of developing disease . Variation between humans can be attributed to genetic variation or the environment to which we are exposed . However , phenotypic differences can also be due to the epigenetic pattern of our genes , which refers to chemical modification that affects the activity of our genes . Epigenetic factors have recently gained a lot of interest , and aberrant epigenetic patterns , have been linked to many diseases . In the present study , we have identified genetic and epigenetic factors that influence the activity of our genes , by way of comparing to the level of different proteins that our genes encode , proteins that have previously been associated with human diseases such as cardiovascular diseases or cancer . We could clearly see that the epigenetic pattern was associated with the expression of specific genes but that such associations were mainly caused by genetic variants , or environmental factors influencing both epigenetic and expression patterns . However , it appeared that some disease-associated proteins could have altering effects on the epigenetic pattern , then suggesting that some epigenetic alterations represent secondary effects to the pathogenesis of disease .
Natural killer ( NK ) cells–as their name implies–are the immune system’s ready to respond ‘killers’ , being able to help control viral infection by cytolytic killing of infected cells and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines to activate and direct the immune response . In retaliation , viruses like varicella zoster virus ( VZV; the cause of chickenpox and shingles ) work to dampen the immune system in order to establish infection in human hosts . We have identified a previously uncharacterised ability of VZV to render NK cells unresponsive to target cells , hindering NK cells from both cytotoxic function and cytokine production . NK cells still maintained predominantly stable expression of functional surface receptors , and were capable of releasing cytotoxic granules when given a receptor-independent stimulus . In this way , VZV paralyses NK cells from functionally responding to target cells , essentially taking the ‘killer’ out of natural killer cells .
Two spatially separate stimuli presented in rapid succession often induce the illusory perception of a moving stimulus ( apparent motion or AM ) . Its underlying mechanism is thought to be increased activation in primary visual cortex representing the motion path . Indirect evidence for this account comes from the reduced detectability of stimuli presented along the motion path ( AM masking ) . Here , we developed a computational model of AM-related effects on visual processing in early visual cortex , which predicted a neural activation that is too small to either account for the observed masking or the perception of motion . Instead , our model predicts strong suppression of neural responses to stimuli presented along the motion path , especially when they match the spatio-temporal prediction of a stimulus moving along the path . Our findings support predictive coding models of visual processing , in which higher-level predictions about motion explain away lower-level responses to expected sensory input .
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is the etiologic agent of tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV-1-associated myelopathy ( TSP/HAM ) , a distinct neurological disorder with inflammatory symptoms and incomplete paralysis of the limbs , and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ) , a highly aggressive malignant proliferation of CD4+ T lymphocytes . Both TSP/HAM and ATL are mainly driven by the activation of IκB kinase ( IKK ) -NF-κB stimulated by HTLV-1 oncoprotein Tax . The molecular mechanism by which Tax activates IKK remains unclear . Here , we found that Tax is an E3 ubiquitin ligase , which , together with its cognate ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes ( E2s ) UbcH2 , UhcH5c , or UbcH7 , catalyzes the assembly of unanchored free mixed-linkage polyubiquitin chains . The polyubiquitin chains can activate IKK complex directly by binding to the NEMO subunit . Our studies uncovered the essential cellular factors hijacked by HTLV-1 for infection and pathogenesis , as well as the biochemical function and the underlying mechanism of Tax in the process of IKK activation . Our work might shed light on potential development of therapeutics for TSP/HAM and ATL .
Alien species are a major contributor to human-induced global environmental change . The probability of whether or not an alien species will successfully establish in a novel environment is often related to the number of times a species is introduced and the number of individuals that are introduced each time , collectively termed ‘propagule pressure’ . Despite this evidence , we don’t yet know whether this is a universal characteristic of species invasions , and the role of propagule pressure continues to be questioned . Here , we present a quantitative meta-analysis of the relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success across a broad range of species and geographies . We found that propagule pressure was consistently and positively associated with the establishment success of alien species . We conclude that propagule pressure is indeed the most consistent and strongest determinant of alien species establishment . No other factors suggested to explain establishment success can claim such universal support . Our results underpin a clear policy and management target for slowing invasion rates by reducing propagule pressure—ideally to single figures or zero—regardless of any other feature of the invasion .
Inflammation is driven by inflammatory mediators . Interleukin 17A ( IL-17 ) is implicated in chronic and severe inflammation and exaggerates production of inflammatory mediators . This is due , at least in part , to the IL-17-attenuated degradation of mRNAs encoding these inflammatory mediators , but the underlying mechanism has remained elusive . Most of these mRNAs contain AU-rich elements in their 3′-untranslated region and are targeted by AU-binding proteins ( AUBps ) that promote either mRNA degradation or stabilization . Here we show that IL-17 directs the AU-mediated mRNA degradation ( AMD pathway ) by modulating the interaction of degrading and stabilizing AUBps via microRNA16 ( miR16 ) . Whereas microRNAs target mRNAs to the RISC pathway for degradation by binding to a seed sequence , miR16 drives degradation by the AMD pathway without an apparent seed sequence . Transcriptome analyses have revealed that the expression of 8% of all eukaryotic transcripts is dependent on the AMD pathway . Therefore , the impact of IL-17 on inflammatory diseases may extend beyond the production of inflammatory mediators to processes like tissue repair , cell cycle , etc . In addition , targeting AUBp and/or miR16 may provide a novel therapeutic option to combat the IL-17 axis of inflammation .
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is a fatal parasitic disease of humans . Domestic cattle act as reservoirs for T . b . rhodesiense HAT . In a survey of cattle in Ugandan villages; six that had a reported HAT case in the previous six months , and six which did not , an association was detected between presence of HAT in a village and infection of village cattle with human infective parasites . Village HAT status was significant ( p<0 . 05 ) for detection of T . b . rhodesiense in the village herd , with significantly greater likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense in herds from case villages ( OR:25 , 95%CI:1 . 2–520 . 71 ) . T . brucei s . l . prevalence of over 16 . 3% in cattle was associated with significantly greater likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense infection within the herd ( OR:25 , 95%CI:1 . 2–520 . 71 ) . Cattle age had a significant effect ( p<0 . 001 ) on the likelihood of a T . brucei s . l . infection: cattle between 18–36 months ( OR:3 . 51 , 95%CI:1 . 63–7 . 51 ) and over 36 months ( OR:4 . 20 , 95%CI:2 . 08–8 . 67 ) had significantly higher rates of T . brucei s . l . than animals under 18 months of age . Cattle are long-term reservoirs of T . b . rhodesiense that will outlive control strategies that do not directly eliminate parasite infection . T . b . rhodesiense and/or elevated T . brucei s . l . prevalence in village herds can serve as an indicator for HAT risk .
Housekeeping genes are required to support basic cellular functions and are therefore expressed constitutively in all tissues . Although the homeostasis of housekeeping gene expression is vital for cell survival , most research on the transcription initiation has been focused on TATA-box-containing promoters of inducible and developmental genes , while regulatory mechanisms at the TATA-less promoters of housekeeping genes have remained poorly understood . Using genome-wide chromatin binding profiles , we find that the NSL complex , a histone acetyltransferase-containing complex , is bound to the majority of constitutively active gene promoters . We show that NSL-bound genes display specific sets of DNA motifs , well-defined nucleosome free regions , and broad transcription initiation patterns . In addition , we show that the NSL complex regulates the recruitment of the basal transcription machinery to target promoters; more specifically , we can pinpoint its role to the early steps of Pol II recruitment . Interestingly , we also see that NSL-bound genes are most susceptible to Pol II loss after depletion of NSLs when they contain the DNA Replication–related Element ( DRE ) . Taken together , we provide a genome-wide analysis of a chromatin-modifying complex that is globally involved in the regulation of housekeeping gene expression .
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy ( FSHD ) is a progressive muscle disorder that is associated with contraction and chromatin relaxation of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeat on chromosome 4q . Each unit of the repeat contains a copy of the primate-specific DUX4 retrogene , encoding a germline transcription factor that is repressed in somatic tissue . In FSHD , somatic repression of the DUX4 gene is compromised , leading to a variegated expression pattern of DUX4 in muscle cells . The complex ( epi ) genetic etiology of FSHD has long hampered the generation of a faithful animal model , and thus far the role of FSHD candidate genes has only been studied in model organisms by overexpression approaches . Here we present two transgenic mouse models containing either patient- or control-sized D4Z4 repeats . In our mice , the regulation of the FSHD locus is preserved in both lines , and only in the disease model somatic derepression and variegated expression of DUX4 is observed . These mice thus reflect many aspects of the complex regulation of DUX4 expression in humans . These models may therefore become valuable tools in understanding the in vivo regulation and function of DUX4 , its role in FSHD , and the evaluation of therapeutic strategies .
Numerous reports of vaccine failure are attributed to a mismatch between the genotype of the vaccine and the circulating target strains . This observation is congruent to the view that polyvalent vaccines protect broadly by inducing a multitude of type-specific antibodies . Polyvalent vaccines that can overcome antigenic diversity by refocusing antibody responses towards conserved functional epitopes are highly desirable . Development of an Apical Membrane Antigen-1 ( AMA1 ) malaria vaccine has been impeded by extreme antigenic diversity in the field . We present here a solution to the AMA1 diversity problem . Antibodies against a mixture of only four naturally occurring AMA1 allelic proteins “Quadvax” inhibited invasion of red blood cells by a diverse panel of malaria parasites that represented the global diversity of AMA1 in the field . Competition experiments suggested that in addition to improving the diversity of strain-specific antibodies , the mechanism of broadened inhibition involved an increase in responses against conserved inhibitory epitopes . Monoclonal antibodies against the Quadvax inhibited invasion either by blocking the binding of AMA1 to its receptor RON2 or by blocking a crucial proteolytic processing event . Some mixtures of these antibodies were much more effective than expected and were shown to act synergistically . Together these two classes of functional invasion inhibitory epitopes can be targeted to engineer a more potent AMA1 vaccine .
Throughout animal development , and in stem cells , many cell divisions are asymmetric . The one-cell-stage C . elegans embryo divides asymmetrically , as a result of a displacement of the mitotic spindle to one side of the cell . As in other cell divisions , a mitotic progression machinery ensures that all chromosomes are associated with the metaphase plate before anaphase begins . This machinery involves the anaphase-promoting complex and its activator Cdc20/Fizzy , which target proteins for destruction by the proteasome; the cyclin that is targeted for degradation by the proteasome; and a cyclin-dependent kinase . We have asked whether the same machinery has a second function , delaying movement of the spindle to an asymmetric position until spindle assembly is complete . To address this question , we used genetic , reverse genetic , and pharmacological techniques to disrupt the function of elements of the mitotic progression machinery . We find that the mitotic progression machinery does indeed time spindle positioning , acting to delay spindle displacement until spindle assembly completes . This demonstrates a previously unrecognized link between the mitotic progression machinery and asymmetric spindle positioning in an animal cell .
High-altitude hypoxia is caused by decreased barometric pressure at high altitude , and results in severe physiological stress to the human body . Three human populations have resided at high altitude for millennia including Andeans on the Andean Altiplano , Tibetans on the Himalayan plateau , and Ethiopian highlanders on the Semian Plateau . Each of these populations exhibits a unique suite of physiological changes to the decreased oxygen available at altitude . However , we are just beginning to understand the genetic changes responsible for the observed physiology . The aim of the current study was to identify gene regions that may be involved in adaptation to high altitude in both Andeans and Tibetans . Genomic regions showing evidence of recent positive selection were identified in these two high-altitude human groups separately . We found compelling evidence of positive selection in HIF pathway genes , in the globin cluster located on chromosome 11 , and in several chromosomal regions for Andeans and Tibetans . Our results suggest that key HIF regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to altitude and implicate several distinct chromosomal regions . The candidate genes and gene regions identified in Andeans and Tibetans are largely distinct from one another . However , one HIF pathway gene , EGLN1 , shows evidence of directional selection in both high-altitude populations .
Efficient and accurate repair of double-strand DNA breaks ( DSBs ) , resulting from the exposure of cells to ionizing radiation or various chemicals , is crucial for cell survival . Conversely , faulty DSB repair can generate genomic instability that can lead to birth defects or cancer in humans . Here we demonstrate that inverted DNA repeats ( IRs ) placed in the vicinity of a DSB , interfere with the accurate repair of DSBs and promote genomic rearrangements and chromosome loss . This results from annealing between inverted repeats , located either in different DNA molecules or in the same molecule . In addition , we describe a new role for the Rad1-Rad10 protein complex in processing fold-back ( FB ) structures formed by intra-molecular annealing involving IRs separated by long spacers . In contrast , FBs with short spacers are processed by the Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2/-Sae2 complex . Overall , we describe several pathways of DSB promoted interaction between IRs that can lead to genomic instability . Given the large number of IRs in the human genome , our findings are relevant to the mechanisms driving genomic destabilization in humans contributing to the development of cancer and other diseases .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes serious infections in people with compromised immune systems . Individuals with Cystic Fibrosis and hospital patients are particularly vulnerable to P . aeruginosa infections . This bacterium does not respond to many antibiotics , making these infections difficult to treat . P . aeruginosa can grow as free-floating planktonic cells or as microcolonies known as biofilms . The ability of P . aeruginosa to form biofilms is thought to contribute to their ability to cause chronic infections . The aim of this research was to develop a simple biofilm model of infection using the fruit fly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) . The immune system of the fruit fly has similarities with the vertebrate innate immune system . Understanding how P . aeruginosa causes infections in Drosophila will aid in understanding virulence mechanisms in mammals . In this study we show that feeding P . aeruginosa to Drosophila results in a biofilm infection and biofilm infections induced expression of antimicrobial peptide immune response genes in the fly . Using fly survival as a measure of virulence we showed that biofilm infections were less virulent than non-biofilm infections . These results provide novel insight into host-pathogens interactions during P . aeruginosa infection .
DNA sequence variation underlies many differences both within and between species . In this paper , we investigate a specific DNA sequence that is thought to influence expression of a gene that modulates behavior , the vasopressin V1a receptor gene ( Avpr1a ) . Specifically , differences in the expression of V1a receptor in the brain have been causally tied to social behavior differences , but the genetic basis of these differences is not understood . Using transgenic mice , we investigate the role of DNA sequences upstream of this gene in generating species-specific and individual variation in Avpr1a expression . We find that , contrary to our expectation , this region has only a modest influence on differences in expression patterns across rodent species . This indicates that DNA elements outside of this region play a larger role in species-level differences in expression . We confirm that variation in Avpr1a expression mediated by this upstream region translates to differences in behavior . We also find that variable DNA sequences associated with repetitive motifs within this region subtly influence gene expression . Together these findings highlight the complexity of genetic mechanisms that influence diversity in brain receptor patterns and support the idea that variable repetitive elements can influence both species and individual differences in gene expression patterns .
Mammalian B cells have developed complex processes to create genetic diversity from DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . These must be tightly controlled to avoid harmful chromosomal translocations . Here we report an experimental yeast assay to analyze how the B-cell specific Activation Induced Deaminase ( AID ) induces transcription-dependent DSBs in mammalian DNA sequences . Our data suggest that in yeast AID is able to mediate deamination of cytosines in transcribed DNA that are then channeled into DSBs as it occurs in mammalian B cells , leading finally to reciprocal chromosomal translocations . These events are strongly enhanced in THO yeast mutants , which indicates that the impairment of the mRNP biogenesis may generate the appropriate substrates for AID action . Our study demonstrates that the AID–dependent genomic instability mechanisms are mediated by standard DNA repair functions existing from yeast to human cells . The only requirement for these events to occur is the formation of the appropriate substrates for AID action , as they are the transcription-mediated RNA–DNA hybrids known to be accumulated in THO null mutants . This experimental model provides a useful tool for the study of the sequences and the mechanisms leading to genomic instability that are primarily caused by chromosomal rearrangements .
DNA translocases are conserved throughout bacteria . While at atomic and molecular levels they have been well characterized , their ability to partition DNA in vegetatively growing cells has remained less clear . Here we show that E . coli translocase , FtsK , can move as much as 80% ( 3 . 7 Mb ) of the chromosomal DNA across the closing septum in asymmetrically dividing cells at an average rate of 1700 bp/s . The majority of DNA movement occurs at the latest stages of cell division when the septum has closed to a narrow channel . Our data implies that a narrow septal opening is needed for effective translocation of DNA by FtsK .
Over the last decade the design of tailor-made vaccines for prophylactic applications ( e . g . , prevention of infection ) and therapeutic applications ( e . g . , cancer therapy ) has attracted significant interest . Epitope-based vaccines are good candidates for such tailor-made approaches . They trigger an immune response by confronting the immune system with immunogenic peptides derived from , e . g . , viral- or cancer-specific proteins . These peptides bind to major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) molecules in a specific manner . The resulting complex is crucial for immune system activation . However , there are many allelic variants of MHC molecules , meaning that different patients typically bind different repertoires of peptides . Nevertheless , due to economical and regulatory issues one cannot simply add all immunogenic peptides to such a peptide mix . Hence , it is crucial to identify the optimal set of peptides for a vaccine , given constraints such as MHC allele frequencies in the target population , peptide mutation rates , and maximum number of selected peptides . In this work we formalize this problem , and variants thereof , in a mathematical framework . The resulting optimization problem can be solved efficiently and yields a provably optimal peptide combination . We can show that the method performs better than existing solutions . Furthermore , the framework is highly flexible and can easily handle additional criteria .
Male-to-female HIV-1 transmission occurs predominantly through vaginal intercourse when the virus is transmitted with seminal fluid . The identification of the determinants of HIV-1 transmission to the female lower genital tract is of pivotal importance for understanding the basic mechanisms of HIV-1 infection . This understanding is necessary for the development of new strategies to prevent or contain this infection . Semen of HIV-1-infected individuals is highly enriched with IL-7 , a crucial cytokine for the life cycle of CD4+ T cells , the primary target of HIV-1 . Here , we utilized a system of human cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissues ex vivo to study the effect of IL-7 on HIV-1 transmission and dissemination . Our results show that IL-7 at concentrations comparable to those found in semen of HIV-1-infected individuals enhanced HIV-1 replication by preventing the death and by stimulating the proliferation of CD4+ T cells . This allows sustained viral production by infected cells and provides new cellular targets for propagation of infection . The concentration of IL-7 in semen of HIV-1-infected men may be a key determinant of the efficiency of HIV-1 transmission to an uninfected female partner through vaginal intercourse .
The recent outbreak of Zika virus ( ZIKV ) in the Americas has resulted in a severe threat to public health . ZIKV is transmitted by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes , thus it is important to understand virus-vector interactions . Analysis of ZIKV infection in mosquito cells indicated that two RNA interference pathways are involved during infection: the exogenous short-interfering ( si ) RNA ( exo-siRNA ) and PIWI-interacting ( pi ) RNA pathways . If Dcr2 , an enzyme responsible for cleaving dsRNA into siRNAs , is knocked out , ZIKV replication is increased compared to control cells . However , the knockdown of Ago2 expression had no significant enhancing effect on ZIKV replication . In the case of the PIWI pathway , only the Piwi4 protein was found to have significant antiviral activity . Furthermore , unlike the capsid ( C ) protein of yellow fever virus , ZIKV capsid protein does not suppress the siRNA pathway . These results suggest that ZIKV has mechanisms to evade mosquito innate immunity and it is therefore important to understand these virus-vector interactions and the implications they have on transmission .
Sporothrix brasiliensis is a dimorphic fungus that is responsible for an ongoing epidemic of cat-transmitted sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . More than 4 , 100 human cases have been diagnosed in only one health institution since 1998 . Most patients are children or housewives with frequent contact with domestic and/or stray cats . The patients usually live under poverty conditions in suburban regions of the metropolitan area with poor access to health care and unsanitary living conditions . For instance , most patients report that they need to have cats in their houses as a control against invasion by rodents . It is important to study the clinical aspects of S . brasiliensis infection in order to improve patient management , including optimizing therapeutic and prophylactic approaches . We have found that S . brasiliensis is responsible for some unusual clinical manifestations of sporotrichosis , such as disseminated infection in immunocompetent patients and hypersensitivity reactions . Also , treatment with itraconazole appears to be extremely effective in most cases of infection by S . brasiliensis . Our study will contribute for the management of the infection caused by S . brasiliensis , bringing benefits to the patients with sporotrichosis .
The human genome was sequenced a decade ago , but its exact gene composition remains a subject of debate . The number of protein-coding genes is much lower than initially expected , and the number of distinct transcripts is much larger than the number of protein-coding genes . Moreover , the proportion of the genome that is transcribed in any given cell type remains an open question: results from “tiling” microarray analyses suggest that transcription is pervasive and that most of the genome is transcribed , whereas new deep sequencing-based methods suggest that most transcripts originate from known genes . We have addressed this discrepancy by comparing samples from the same tissues using both technologies . Our analyses indicate that RNA sequencing appears more reliable for transcripts with low expression levels , that most transcripts correspond to known genes or are near known genes , and that many transcripts may represent new exons or aberrant products of the transcription process . We also identify several thousand small transcripts that map outside known genes; their sequences are often conserved and are often encoded in regions of open chromatin . We propose that most of these transcripts may be by-products of the activity of enhancers , which associate with promoters as part of their role as long-range gene regulatory sites . Overall , however , we find that most of the genome is not appreciably transcribed .
The bacterial blue-light photoreceptor YtvA from Bacillus subtilis , which fluoresces in the presence or absence of oxygen , provides new opportunities to study oxygen-limited cellular systems . However its thermostability is poor , hindering its applicability in thermophilic systems . In this work , we develop an iterative combined computational and experimental method to significantly improve this protein's thermostability . The method is simple and effective , which in principle can be applied to other protein systems , thus adds a new tool to the protein engineering arsenal .
Certain sand fly species living inside or on the edge of tropical forests are well known to transmit a protozoan to humans , which in lowland Panama develops into a cutaneous form of leishmaniasis; open , itching sores on the face and extremities requiring aggressive treatment with antimonial compounds . Morphological characters and DNA sequence from mitochondrial and nuclear gene fragments permitted us to identify and then establish historical relationships among 20 common sand fly species occurring in the understory of Barro Colorado Island , a forested preserve in the middle of the Panama Canal . Individuals in three of these sand fly species were found to be 26–43% infected by Leishmania naiffi , a species hitherto known only from the Amazonian region and the Caribbean . We then screened the same 20 sand fly species for the cytoplasmically transmitted bacteria Wolbachia pipientis , finding three infected at high rates , each by a distinct strain . Lutzomyia trapidoi , the most likely transmitter of Leishmania to humans in Panama , was among the Wolbachia-infected species , thus marking it as a possible high-value target for future biocontrol studies using the bacteria either to induce mating incompatabilities or to drive selected genes into the population .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection of immune-compromised individuals is a significant cause of morbidity . In a number of settings disease is caused by the reactivation of a pre-existing quiescent infection of the host ( latency ) which , in the absence of a controlling immune response , is a major source of disease . Work to understand the switch from a latent to active ( reactivated ) infection has focussed on the regulation of the promoter that controls the major viral gene products IE72 and IE86 – an important first step towards HCMV reactivation . In this study we have correlated the activation of cellular signalling pathways with the downstream activation of this promoter . Specifically , the activation of cellular kinase in an ERK-MAPK dependent manner which displays an affinity for a protein bound to a key viral promoter drives a change in the chromatin architecture that allows viral gene expression – releasing the virus from the latent state .
All cells require ribosomes , the cellular factories that produce proteins . A host of factors combine to produce the multiple complex units of a ribosome , many of which are still not well understood . Surprisingly , despite the ubiquitous requirement for ribosomes , defects in various ribosome biogenesis factors cause distinct and tissue specific phenotypes , collectively known as ribosomopathies . We examined the role of one ribosome biogenesis factor , Nol11 , during embryonic development to determine if it too had a tissue specific phenotype . Here we show that expression of nol11 is strongly associated with the developing head in vertebrates and that insufficient Nol11 results in striking malformations of the craniofacial skeleton . We further show that reduced Nol11 impairs critical early steps in ribosome production , which triggers apoptosis within cell populations that contribute to the head . Increased cell death is at least partially the cause of the Nol11 craniofacial defect; reducing cell death rescues some of the craniofacial phenotype but not the ribosome biogenesis defect . In summary , we demonstrate for the first time that Nol11 is required for normal development of the vertebrate head and provide novel insight into the intriguing tissue proclivity of ribosomopathies .
Leptospirosis is an infectious zoonotic disease that causes non-specific signs and symptoms in humans , which hampers the clinical diagnosis and treatment by physicians . Complications can occur if the proper treatment is not initiated early in the course of illness . Although the early diagnosis is critical for preventing unnecessary complications , currently available tests do not exhibit sufficient diagnostic sensitivity in the beginning of disease . We took advantage of high throughput techniques to perform an embracing study of the humoral immune response to the bacteria in order to identify antigens that could be used in a new test for the diagnosis of leptospirosis . A protein microarray chip containing 2 , 241 leptospiral proteins was constructed and probed with serum samples from patients and healthy individuals . We identified 24 proteins that are recognized by patients' sera but not by healthy individuals . These proteins are potential diagnostic markers , especially the ones identified for acute-phase patients , which can discriminate between a positive and a negative leptospirosis case within a few days after onset of symptoms . This work establishes the protein microarray approach for improving our understanding of the serological response to leptospirosis . Further research is needed to assess the performance of these antigens in the clinical setting .
Melanization is an important immune response and wound healing mechanism in arthropods that leads to melanin formation and deposition on microbial and wound surfaces , respectively . In the Anopheles gambiae mosquito that transmits the malaria parasite Plasmodium , melanization is dispensable for parasite killing . Further , we have shown that in Anopheles gambiae this immune process does not seem to play a role in defense against bacterial infections , which questions the role of melanization in mosquito immunity and the microbial pressure that drove its evolutionary path . Here , we infected mosquitoes with the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana to study the role of melanization in anti-fungal defense . We show that mosquito blood cells , as well as specific immune proteins present in the mosquito blood participate in the melanization response to Beauveria bassiana . Our results also reveal that melanization does not abort the growth of the fungus but rather retards significantly its proliferation . The hyphal body stages , which are freely circulating single cells that can disseminate the infection appear earlier in mosquitoes exhibiting a compromised melanization response than in control mosquitoes . These findings provide novel insights into Beauveria bassiana-Anopheles gambiae interactions , which may be exploited to design transgenic fungi with enhanced bio-control potential against mosquitoes .
Arboviruses utilize homologous host factors of the mammalian and insect cellular machinery to complete the infection cycle . Studies in both mammalian and insect cell lines have shown that virus infection can be suppressed through inhibition of host factors by chemical compounds that therefore could be developed into transmission blocking agents . However , similar studies have not been conducted in adult mosquitoes . Here we investigated the effect of four chemical compounds ( bafilomycin , mycophenolic acid , castanospermine , and deoxynojirimycin ) , known to inhibit the host factors vacuolar H+-ATPase ( vATPase ) , inosine-5′-monophosphate dehydrogenase ( IMPDH ) and glucosidases , on dengue virus replication in adult mosquitoes . We found that bafilomycin and mycophenolic acid suppressed dengue virus replication in adult mosquito guts when they were injected prior to dengue virus infection; however , castanospermine and deoxynojirimycin did not . Ingestion of bafilomycin and mycophenolic acid also inhibited virus replication . We showed that the predicted target genes of bafilomycin and mycophenolic acid function as virus host factors in adult mosquitoes through RNAi-mediated gene silencing . Inhibition of vATPase also decreases mosquito longevity and fecundity , thereby further compromising vector capacity . Our study demonstrated that chemical compounds or double stranded RNAs ( dsRNA ) can be used to suppress virus infection through inhibition of host factors in adult mosquitoes , thereby rendering such approaches interesting for the development of novel transmission-blocking strategies .
Massive rearrangement of ions across the plasma membrane and changes in cellular volume are common features of states such as seizures , spreading depression , and ischemia . In this paper , we focus on how volume itself influences neuronal activity . We build a unified computational framework for a wide range of neuronal behaviors by exploiting their previously unexplored common features . By combining the dynamic ion concentrations and volume , conservation of charge , and the energy requirements of the cell within a Hodgkin-Huxley type framework , we demonstrate the feasibility of a comprehensive framework encompassing a wide range of neuronal behaviors . We show the spontaneous transition of a neuron between seizure and spreading depression when the cell swells and contracts in response to varying osmotic pressure as a result of the rearrangement of different ions . Our model closely reproduces anoxic depolarization and relevant neuronal swelling during ischemia and reveals a dynamical definition for the experimentally described physiological ceilings that demarcate seizure from spreading depression and spreading depression from anoxic depolarization . This study opens up a new way of studying neuronal behavior where different states need not be treated separately but rather as a dynamical continuum of the neuronal membrane potential and its microenvironment .
Paracoccidioidomycosis is a systemic disease that has an important mortality and morbidity impact in Latin America . It mainly affects rural workers of Argentina , Colombia , Venezuela and Brazil . Upon host infection , one of the most important aspects that contribute to the disease outcome is the initial interaction of the Paracoccidioides brasiliensis fungus with the phagocytic cells and the induction of the inflammatory process . Among several inflammatory mediators , the cytokine interleukin-1β is of pivotal importance in this complex process . Here , we demonstrate that P . brasiliensis is sensed by the NLRP3 inflammasome , a cytoplasmatic multiprotein complex that lead to the processing and secretion of IL-1β . In addition , we described the intracellular perturbations that may be associated with NLRP3 activation such as potassium efflux , production of reactive oxygen species , and lysosomal damage . Finally , our work provides evidence for the protective role of IL-1β during fungal infection of murine macrophages .
Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous intracellular parasite that chronically infects the brain of up to 1/3 of the world’s population . While most infected persons have no symptoms , Toxoplasma’s tropism for the brain underlies the parasite’s ability to cause debilitating neurologic disease in the developing fetus and the immunocompromised , such as AIDS or organ transplant patients . Our understanding of which cells of the brain interact with and are infected by Toxoplasma primarily comes from work in tissue culture , which cannot re-capitulate the complexity of a living animal . Here , we overcome this barrier by studying brain-Toxoplasma interactions using a novel mouse model that allows us to permanently mark and track brain cells that have interacted with parasites . Contrary to what has been shown in cell culture , we find that throughout acute and chronic brain infection Toxoplasma almost exclusively interacts with neurons , and rarely interacts with astrocytes . This neuronal predilection persists even in highly manipulated circumstances such as the introduction of parasites directly into the brain . This work is the first to show that Toxoplasma primarily interacts with neurons in vivo , which suggests that to understand Toxoplasma’s ability to persistently infect the brain , we must understand the neuron-Toxoplasma interaction .
To understand shapes and movements of simple motile cells , we systematically explore minimal models describing a cell as a two-dimensional actin-myosin gel with a free boundary . The models account for actin-myosin contraction balanced by viscous stresses in the actin gel and uniform adhesion . The myosin contraction causes the lamellipodial boundary to retract . Actin protrusion at the boundary counters the retraction , and the balance of protrusion and retraction shapes the cell . The models reproduce a variety of motile shapes observed experimentally . The analysis shows that the mechanical state of a cell depends on a small number of parameters . We find that when the contractility is sufficiently strong , cells break symmetry and move steadily along either straight or circular trajectory . Scanning model parameters shows that the contractile mechanism of motility supports robust cell turning behavior in conditions where deformable actin gel and fast protrusion destabilize the axial symmetry of a moving cell .
Proteins are responsible for much of the biological ‘heavy lifting’ that keeps our cells functioning . However , proteins don't usually work alone; instead they typically bind together to form geometrically and chemically complex structures that are tailored for a specific task . Experimental techniques allow us to detect whether two types of proteins are capable of binding together , or ‘interacting’ . This creates a network where two proteins are connected if they have been seen to interact , just as we could regard two people as being connected if they are linked on Facebook . Such protein-protein interaction networks have been developed for several organisms , using a range of methods , all of which are subject to experimental errors . These network data reveal a fascinating and intricate pattern of connections . In particular , it is known that proteins can be arranged into a low-dimensional space , such as a three-dimensional cube , so that interacting proteins are close together . Our work shows that this structure can be exploited to assign confidence levels to recorded protein-protein interactions and predict new interactions that were overlooked experimentally . In tests , we predicted 251 new human protein-protein interactions , and through literature curation we independently validated a statistically significant number of them .
Over 20 diseases are caused by the expansion of simple repeat sequences in the human genome . Among these are the polyglutamine protein diseases and other primarily RNA–based diseases like myotonic dystrophy ( DM1 ) and spinocerebellar ataxia type 8 ( SCA8 ) . Recently , it has also become clear many genes are transcribed into RNAs from both strands . These include genes causing DM1 and SCA8 . Small interfering RNAs ( siRNAs ) are short RNAs that are cleaved from double-stranded RNAs . These siRNAs can direct degradation of other complementary RNA sequences to reduce their expression . To study consequences of bi-directional transcription of pathogenic repeat sequences , we introduced repeat RNAs containing both CUG and CAG in a Drosophila model of DM1 . We found that these repeat RNAs can be cleaved into repeat-derived siRNAs that are highly toxic to the animal . The mechanisms include targeting RNAs of other genes containing simple repeat sequence for degradation . These findings indicate that repeat-derived siRNAs generated from bidirectional transcription may , in a disease situation , contribute novel pathogenic components .
The soft rot bacteria of the genus Pectobacterium are an economically important group of plant pathogens in the Enterobacteriaceae family . Pectobacteria are characterized by their massive production of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes , which are aggressively used to decay the living plant tissue for nutrient acquisition . Genome analysis of Pectobacterium sp . SCC3193 , a genetically well characterized model in soft rot research , provided several surprises . Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that SCC3193 belongs to the species Pectobacterium wasabiae , which has recently been reported from potato in increasing numbers worldwide . It is not clear whether P . wasabiae represents a true emerging pathogen in potato fields or whether traditional methods have been unable to differentiate between P . wasabiae and P . carotovorum . The genome of SCC3193 was found to harbor novel virulence determinants , some of which may have been acquired from distantly related bacterial species or even from other kingdoms , such as plants . The 25 years of SCC3193 research and the novelties found in this study will provide the basis for understanding the host pathogen interactions of P . wasabiae and improving strategies to combat bacterial soft rot .
Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that are essential for energy production and cellular processes in eukaryotic cells , and their functional failure is a major cause of age-associated degenerative diseases . To meet the specific needs of different cellular states , mitochondrial protein repertoires are adjusted . It is critical to characterize the systemic alterations of mitochondria to different cellular states to understand the dynamic organization of mitochondrial systems . In this study , we modularized the quantified proteomics data into protein functional networks to characterize gene expression changes under dysfunctional mitochondrial conditions . Our results demonstrate that mitochondrial protein repertoires changed to compensate for dysfunctional cellular states by reorganizing mitochondrial protein functional network . Through network clustering analysis , we discovered that cells respond to pathological conditions by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of mitochondrial proteins . Network analysis of mt proteins can advance our understanding of dysfunctional mitochondrial systems and elucidate the candidate mt proteins involved in human mitochondrial diseases .
The proverb ‘life is motion’ also applies to the molecular scale . Indeed , if we looked into any living cell with molecular resolution , we would observe a large variety of highly dynamic processes . One particularly striking aspect of these dynamics is that all macromolecules within the cell are continuously synthesized , modified , and degraded by complex biomolecular machines . These ‘nanorobots’ follow intricate reaction pathways that form networks of molecular transitions or transformation steps . Each of these steps is stochastic and takes , on average , a certain amount of time . A fundamentally important question is how these individual step times or the corresponding transition rates determine the overall speed of the process in the cell . This question is difficult to answer , however , because the step times can only be measured in vitro but not in vivo . Here , we develop a general computational method by which one can deduce the individual step times in vivo from their in-vitro values . In order to demonstrate the predictive power of our method , we apply it to protein synthesis by ribosomes , a key process of gene expression , and validate the deduced step times by three independent sets of in-vivo data .
Mutation rates in bacteria have generally been considered to be much slower than in viruses . This is partly because estimates of long-term mutation rates for the evolution of distinct species have been inappropriately used for dating divergence within species . Furthermore , the most commonly used long-term mutation rate is based on geological dates that are no longer accepted . In addition , only few short-term mutation rates have been calculated within bacterial species , and these differ with the species by several orders of magnitude . Here , we provide robust estimates for short-term mutation and recombination rates within Helicobacter pylori , a bacterium that commonly infects the human gastric mucosa , based on serial isolates from long-term infections and on differences between isolates from multiple family members . These short-term mutation rates are 5–17-fold faster than long-term mutation rates in H . pylori that have been calibrated by parallel ancient migrations of humans . Short-term mutation rates in bacteria , including those for H . pylori , can be quite fast , partially overlapping with those for viruses . Future calculations of ages of bacterial species will need to account for dramatic differences in mutation rate between species and for dramatic differences between short- and long-term mutation rates .
The ability to convert light into electrical signals in the mammalian retina has traditionally been thought to occur through only two types of photoreceptors , the rods and cones . However , this ability also extends to a small number of neurons expressing the protein melanopsin . To date these melanopsin retinal ganglion cells ( mRGCs ) have been thought to act as photoreceptors primarily for those brain regions regulating subconscious responses to ambient light , such as pupil size . In this study , we provide evidence that mRGCs also contribute extensively to conventional visual pathways . We use a newly developed strategy to characterize the brain regions to which these cells project and then directly monitor visually evoked neural activity in these target regions . We find that mRGCs allow the mouse visual system to faithfully encode ambient illumination over at least a million-fold range and to continue to show light responses even in the absence of all rods and cones . These data reveal a new role for mRGCs during normal vision and suggest that mRGCs could make a significant contribution to assessing brightness and supporting vision even in people with advanced retinal degeneration .
Despite significant effort , our understanding of how HIV-1 virus undermines the immune system is limited . HIV-1infection is characterized by extensive damage to intestinal mucosal barrier and translocation of bacteria and microbial products into the systemic circulation . Immune activation induced by microbial products results in chronic inflammation that drives HIV-1 pathogenesis and progression to AIDS despite successful control of HIV-1 replication by antiretroviral therapy . Here we provide evidence indicating that antibody-producing cells in the intestinal mucosa of HIV-1-infected individuals have decreased capacity to switch from the production of IgM to IgA and IgG , the types of antibodies that normally restrict the translocation of bacterial antigens across the mucosal barrier . This may facilitate systemic dissemination of microbial products and subsequent inflammation in HIV-1-infected individuals . Furthermore , the accumulation of IgM in gut mucosa may contribute to the exacerbation of inflammatory processes by the formation of inflammatory immune complexes . This newly identified dysregulation of immune system alters our understanding of HIV-1 pathogenesis and may facilitate the design of novel therapies targeting immune dysfunction in HIV-1/AIDS .
The rate of unlimited exponential growth is traditionally used to quantify fitness of species or success of organizations in biological and economic context respectively . However , even modest population growth quickly saturates any environment . Subsequent resource redistribution between the surviving populations is assumed to be driven by incremental changes due to stochastic births and deaths of individuals . Here we propose and model another redistribution mechanism driven by sudden and severe collapses of entire populations freeing up resources for the growth of others . The emergent property of this type of dynamics are cyclic “diversity waves” each triggered by a collapse of the globally dominating population . Gradual extinctions of species within the current wave results in a scale-free time-aggregated distribution of populations of most abundant species . Our study offers insights to population dynamics of microbial communities with local collapses caused e . g . by invading bacteriophages . It also provides a simplified dynamical description of market shares of companies competing in an economic sector with frequent rate of bankruptcy .
Chemotaxis of bacteria plays an important role in their life , providing them with the ability to actively search for an optimal growth environment . The chemotaxis system is supposed to be highly optimized , because on the evolutionary time scale even a modest enhancement of its efficiency can give cells a large competitive advantage . For a long time it was believed that the only navigation mechanism of bacteria is increasing the run length toward the preferred direction . The tumble was assumed to be a purely random change of direction between runs . We analysed recently published experimental data that demonstrate a dependence of tumbling angle on the number of CW-switched motors . We introduced such a dependence into our model of chemotactic E . coli , and simulated it under different conditions . Our simulations show that this dependence is an important additional mechanism of bacterial navigation , which was previously unrecognized because it lays below the experimental errors of conventional single-cell tracking . We show that such a fine tuning of tumbling significantly improves efficiency of chemotaxis , and represents a new level of evolutionary optimization of bacteria .
T cells , an essential component of the immune system , generate protective immune responses against pathogenic organisms and cancer cells . T cells are produced in the thymus , which provides a unique microenvironment required for T cell development . Distinct subsets of thymic epithelial cells ( TECs ) in the outer cortex and inner medulla provide signals required for the survival and differentiation of immature T cells , referred to as thymocytes . Medullary TECs ( mTECs ) play a critical role in preventing autoimmunity because they have the unique ability to express peptides found in other organs throughout the body . Presentation of self-peptides to thymocytes causes deletion of cells that express high affinity self-reactive receptors . Numerous studies have established that a major signaling pathway mediated by NFκB family members is indispensable for mTEC development . However , whether other signaling pathways are also required has remained an open question . Here , we use gain- and loss-of-function genetic approaches to demonstrate that another pathway , mediated by Stat3 signaling , plays an important role in mTEC development and homeostasis . We show that constitutive Stat3 activation enhances the survival of immature mTECs and bypasses the requirement for thymocyte-derived signals in medullary region formation . In contrast , Stat3 depletion reduces mTEC cellularity and impairs medullary region formation .
The emergent human pathogen Clostridium difficile is a major cause of nosocomial diarrhea associated with antibiotic therapy . During the last few years , severe forms of C . difficile infections became more frequent due to the emergence of hypervirulent isolates . Despite intensive studies , many questions regarding the mechanisms controlling C . difficile virulence remain unanswered . We hypothesized that C . difficile , a member of an ancient group of bacteria , might widely use ancestral RNA–based mechanisms to control its gene expression for better adaptation to host conditions . Indeed , using next-generation sequencing technology , we identified a great number and a large diversity of potential RNA regulators in this pathogen . We obtained experimental evidence for regulatory roles of a particular class of regulatory RNAs responding to c-di-GMP , a universal bacterial signaling molecule regulating motility , biofilm formation , and virulence . We also detected abundant small RNA products of recently discovered adaptive prokaryotic immunity CRISPR-Cas systems that might be important for C . difficile survival in gut communities . Our findings suggest that small RNA molecules may play a major role in regulatory processes during C . difficile infection cycle and as such are promising targets of new therapeutic strategies .
Viruses may benefit from altering the host cell’s normal miRNA milieu , by either lowering or increasing antiviral or proviral miRNA levels . Our results reveal a mechanism by which virus infection can regulate miRNA abundance by modulating the activity of cellular enzymes responsible for miRNA 3′-terminal modifications . Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) uses microRNA-122 ( miR-122 ) as a proviral host factor to increase viral genome abundance , but HCV infection results in diminished miR-122 levels by unknown mechanisms . We demonstrated that the HCV core protein plays a role in reprogramming the cellular profile of miR-122 isomers by inhibiting GLD-2 , a non-canonical cytoplasmic poly ( A ) polymerase , to promote miR-122 destabilization . Our results raise several important questions . First , how is only a specific subset of miRNAs in the liver affected by GLD-2 inhibition by the HCV core protein ? Second , how does HCV regulate pre-miR-122 processing in its loop region ? Third , does GLD-2 inhibition by the HCV core protein affect the translation of a specific group of host mRNAs ? With many unanswered questions , our results propose a novel feedback regulatory mechanism for controlling HCV RNA abundance by the viral capsid protein , which is capable of modulating miR-122 activity and stability through the inhibition of GLD-2 .
Trypanosomiasis is a major health threat in Africa , but vaccine development has long been hampered by the extraordinarily diverse surface proteins of these parasites . However , Serengeti lions show an asymptotic age prevalence of the non-pathogenic Trypanosoma congolense in contrast to a strong peak and decrease in age prevalence of the pathogenic T . brucei s . l . . This pattern suggests that lions may gain cross-immunity to T . brucei from repeated exposure to the more genetically diverse T . congolense . Although lions may gain more effective cross immunity than other host species owing to their frequent consumption of infected prey animals , these findings suggest possible strategies for designing effective vaccines against sleeping sickness in livestock and humans .
To date , mechanistic mathematical modeling , in general , has not played a significant role in the development of new therapies for cancer , cardiovascular diseases , or the treatment of acute events like thrombosis during surgery . One critical issue often cited for the lack of interest has been uncertainty; the conventional wisdom is that the data requirement to fully determine and validate large mechanistic models is just too high . We show , using tools from systems biology and sensitivity analysis , that it may be possible to extract qualitative information about the critical elements of human relevant cascades despite model uncertainty . Using a mechanistic model of the human coagulation cascade , we were able to identify the critical mechanisms controlling the formation of thrombin , a key protein active in the formation of blood clots . We were further able to support the hypothesis that the critical mechanisms identified by our analysis could serve as drug targets by comparing our findings with the thrombosis treatment literature and with current clinical trials . The results support the notion that mechanistic models could be used , despite model uncertainty , to pinpoint key mechanisms in complex networks , and that these mechanisms could potentially be therapeutically exploited .
Phage therapy is an antimicrobial treatment based on specific viruses which are natural predators of bacteria . This approach is being promoted as a possible alternative treatment for use against antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria . Despite its long history and many potential benefits , adoption of phage therapy has been retarded by a variety of factors , including a poor understanding of the therapeutic consequences of the phage–bacteria relationship . In our work we bring together theory and data by testing kinetic models of phage–bacteria interactions against data for an important agent of human food poisoning , Campylobacter jejuni . Our model explicitly allows for resistant bacteria because these have not been properly accounted for in previous phage therapy theory but will be relevant to practical applications . The excellent fit of our model to the data confirms the value of such combined approaches and supports an interpretative viewpoint based on critical density-dependent thresholds that are not part of standard pharmacology . We also find that phage activity appears to be dose-dependent , and we speculate on possible causes for this . Our work illustrates how mathematical models can considerably enhance insights from empirical studies , as an important step in advancing the understanding of phage therapy .
The freshwater snail Biomphalaria glabrata is the subject of intensive research , primarily due to its biomedical importance as an intermediate host for the parasitic flatworm Schistosoma mansoni , which is a causative agent of the disease schistosomiasis–a chronic , debilitating condition that affects over 260 million people worldwide . Studies of this snail have led to the identification of many factors , some with high homology to known immune molecules in other organisms and many more that are unique with no known homology . However , research into the functional and mechanistic roles of these factors has only recently progressed . In this study , we have demonstrated the functional relevance of a Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) that we identified in B . glabrata . Transcriptional expression of this TLR was rapidly induced in a snail strain that is resistant to S . mansoni , in a pattern that is consistent with their phenotype . Furthermore , knockdown of the TLR resulted in 43% of resistant snails becoming infected with S . mansoni to patency . This advances our understanding of the mechanistic basis of snail-schistosome compatibility significantly , and may one day facilitate the development of tools for improving the control of schistosomiasis . It also contributes novel functionality to TLRs , one of the most evolutionarily conserved pattern-recognition receptors and cognate signalling pathways in immunity .
In Pacific islands like in most tropical regions , Aedes mosquitoes affect the health of human populations by transmitting diseases like dengue , chikungunya , Zika and filariasis . The biting nuisance of Aedes mosquitoes also impacts local tourism , affecting the sustainability of island economies . Mosquito saliva is injected during the biting process , and the response triggered by the human immune system to proteins contained in mosquito saliva was shown to be a relevant biomarker of exposure to mosquito bites . Using this approach , we have developed an immuno-epidemiological tool to investigate the exposure of people to the bites of Aedes aegypti and Aedes polynesiensis , two significant mosquito vectors of infectious diseases in French Polynesia and other island countries and territories in the Pacific . This novel tool proved specific and reliable . It will improve the assessment of disease transmission risk and be useful for measuring the efficacy of both conventional and innovative vector control strategies .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) is a highly successful human pathogen , representing the leading bacterial cause of death worldwide . Mtb infects macrophages and it adapts to the hostile intracellular milieu of this cell by exploiting the plasticity of its central carbon metabolism machinery . While several studies have detailed the bacterial adaptations that accompany infection , it is still unclear whether this process also involves engagement with host metabolic pathways . We therefore profiled the kinetic flux of host cell metabolites in macrophages that were infected with differently virulent Mtb strains . Interestingly , we found that Mtb pathogenicity was indeed intimately linked to its capacity to regulate host cell metabolism . A unique subset of host pathways was targeted so as to integrate the glycolytic threshold governing macrophage viability with mechanisms ensuring intracellular bacterial survival . Perturbation of macrophage glycolytic flux was enforced through pathogen-induced enhancement in glucose uptake , which in turn was also influenced by the extracellular glucose concentration . This observation rationalizes the increased susceptibility of diabetic individuals to TB infection Interestingly , Mtb strains also differed in their capacities to stimulate macrophage glucose uptake . Consequently , the resulting pathology is likely dictated both by the individual's glycemic status , and the nature of the infecting strain .
Sexual reproduction relies on meiosis . This specialized cell division generates gametes , such as sperm and eggs , with a single copy of the genome , so that fertilization restores diploidy . In order for chromosomes to segregate correctly during meiosis , homologs usually must undergo crossing over ( genetic exchange ) during meiotic prophase . How crossovers are coupled to large-scale changes in chromosome structure is not well understood . Our work shows that the protein ZHP-3 localizes to crossovers late in prophase , coincident with a transition in which chromosomes initiate progressive restructuring around the crossover . We have found that a ZHP-3-GFP fusion protein is competent to promote genetic exchange but not proper segregation . Chromosomes from these mutant animals exhibit defects in this late-prophase restructuring , suggesting that alterations in chromosome architecture that typically accompany crossovers have not occurred . We propose that ZHP-3 acts at crossovers to coordinate genetic exchange with higher order changes in chromosome structure that promote proper chromosome segregation .
The tiger mosquito ( Aedes albopictus ) originates from tropical Asia , but over the last decades has invaded many regions worldwide . In several Southern Europe and US urban areas it has become the mosquito species creating the highest nuisance to the citizens , spoiling recreational outdoor activities by aggressively biting during daytime hours . Moreover , it has also become a public health concern due to its capability of transmitting to humans several exotic arboviruses . For an effective control strategy against these mosquitoes a profound knowledge of their preferences in terms of environment is mandatory in order to better understand what affects and determines their distribution . We analyzed some of these factors in the city of Rome and in its outskirts by collecting mosquitoes during an entire summer season . Results show that Ae . albopictus presence is more abundant in strongly urbanized areas compared to more green ones , but that within metropolitan Rome the highest densities are observed in small green areas within heavily urbanized settings , such as private gardens or public recreational areas , which should thus be the first target of anti-mosquito activities . Results also show that very high densities are not only observed in the warmest summer months as expected , but also in autumn , when people are less prepared to defend themselves from mosquito attacks .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) , the causative agent of human tuberculosis , is an extremely successful human pathogen . The pathogenesis of bacterium is associated with its ability to invade macrophages and to circumvent bactericidal functions of the host cell in order to survive within a protective niche . The cellular mechanisms are largely investigated but the bacterial factors are poorly known . The outermost layer of the mycobacterial cell envelope is particularly of interest because of its localization at the interface with macrophages . An interesting feature of this envelope is its high lipid content . One group of lipids , the phthiocerol dimycocerosates ( DIM ) , has been studied intensively since being shown to promote Mtb virulence . We investigated the cellular and molecular mechanisms of DIM and demonstrated that DIM participate in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis of Mtb in human macrophages through a mechanism involving a reorganization of the plasma membrane following recognition of bacilli . This modification of the plasma membrane biophysical properties might help Mtb to create a protective niche by preventing acidification of its phagosome . Our results provide a first hint on the molecular mechanism of action of DIM , a key Mtb lipidic virulence factor .
The mesoscopic level of brain organization , describing the organization and dynamics of small circuits of neurons including from few tens to few thousands , has recently received considerable experimental attention . It is useful for describing small neural systems of invertebrates , and in mammalian neural systems it is often seen as a middle ground that is fundamental to link single neuron activity to complex functions and behavior . However , and somewhat counter-intuitively , the behavior of neural networks of small and intermediate size can be much more difficult to study mathematically than that of large networks , and appropriate mathematical methods to study the dynamics of such networks have not been developed yet . Here we consider a model of a network of firing-rate neurons with arbitrary finite size , and we study its local bifurcations using an analytical approach . This analysis , complemented by numerical studies for both the local and global bifurcations , shows the emergence of strong and previously unexplored finite-size effects that are particularly hard to detect in large networks . This study advances the tools available for the comprehension of finite-size neural circuits , going beyond the insights provided by the mean-field approximation and the current techniques for the quantification of finite-size effects .
Understanding of the dynamics and distribution of Leishmania in the human host is fundamental to the targeting of control measures and their evaluation . Amplification of parasite gene sequences in clinical samples from cutaneous leishmaniasis patients has provided evidence of Leishmania in blood , other tissues and sites distinct from the lesion and of persistence of infection after clinical resolution of disease . However , there is uncertainty about the interpretation of the presence of Leishmania DNA as indicative of viable parasites . Because RNA is short-lived and labile , its presence provides an indicator of viability . We amplified Leishmania 7SLRNA , a molecule involved in intracellular protein translocation , to establish viability and estimate parasite load in blood monocytes , tonsil swab samples , and tissue fluid from healthy skin of patients with dermal leishmaniasis . Results showed that during active dermal leishmaniasis , viable Leishmania are present in blood monocytes , tonsils and normal skin in quantities similar to that in lesions , demonstrating widespread dissemination of infection and subclinical involvement of tissues beyond the lesion site . Leishmania 7SLRNA will be useful in deciphering the role of human infection in transmission .
Before a cell divides , its genome must be faithfully duplicated to ensure that the daughter cell receives an exact copy of the parental genetic material . However , this process requires disruption of chromatin , the combination of DNA and histone proteins , whose structure and function have to be readily restored afterwards . This is achieved through a nuclear process known as DNA replication , which represents the basis for biological inheritance . In eukaryotes , genome replication starts from distinct genomic locations termed replication origins . Origins fire in a temporally regulated , cell-type dependent manner and timing of DNA replication is therefore the result of this concerted origin activation . However , replication timing is not encoded in the genome and its regulatory mode remains to a large degree unresolved . Here , we systematically study the relationship between chromatin , represented by histone modifications and chromatin binding proteins , and DNA replication timing . We report combinatorial histone modification patterns exhibiting regulatory potential for this process and we characterize those elements that might contribute to further elucidate the regulatory mode of this fundamental cellular process .
Dengue virus serotypes are associated with millions of infections and thousands of deaths globally each year , primarily in tropical and subtropical regions . We investigated the spatial dynamics of DENV ( serotypes 1–3 ) in Brazil by applying a statistical framework to complete genome sequences . Co-circulation of distinct genotypes , lineage extinction and replacement and multiple viral introduction events were found for all three serotypes . New lineages were typically introduced from the Caribbean into Northern Brazil and dispersed thereafter at a rate of ≈0 . 5 km/year . Our analysis indicates that aerial transportation is a more important determinant of viral dispersal than Aedes aegypti infestation rates or geographical distance .
Growing evidence across nervous systems and species shows that the activities of neighboring neurons are not independent but are correlated with one another , which has important implications for neural coding . Such correlations are generally thought to be due to shared input . However , how this shared input is integrated by neurons in order to give rise to correlated activity is not well understood in general . Here we investigated how receptive field structure determines correlations between the activities of electrosensory pyramidal neurons in weakly electric fish . To do so , we used a combination of mathematical modeling of the known antagonistic center-surround RF structure as well as in vivo electrophysiological recordings . Our results show that the amount of receptive field center overlap alone is not sufficient to explain experimentally observed neural correlations in general . This is because our experimental data shows that pyramidal neurons with very different amounts of receptive field center overlap display almost identical correlations between their activities . Further , our modeling shows that both receptive field center and surround play important roles in determining correlated activity , such that very different combinations of relative RF surround strength and size can generate nearly identical correlations between neural activities . We discuss the implications of our results for sensory processing .
Sensory systems communicate information to the brain — and brain areas communicate between themselves — via the electrical activities of their respective neurons . These activities are “noisy”: repeat presentations of the same stimulus do not yield to identical responses every time . Furthermore , the neurons' responses are not independent: the variability in their responses is typically correlated from cell to cell . How does this change the impact of the noise — for better or for worse ? Our goal here is to classify ( broadly ) the sorts of noise correlations that are either good or bad for enabling populations of neurons to transmit information . This is helpful as there are many possibilities for the noise correlations , and the set of possibilities becomes large for even modestly sized neural populations . We prove mathematically that , for larger populations , there are many highly diverse ways that favorable correlations can occur . These often differ from the noise correlation structures that are typically identified as beneficial for information transmission – those that follow the so-called “sign rule . ” Our results help in interpreting some recent data that seems puzzling from the perspective of this rule .
Accurate prediction of antimicrobial efficacy is essential for successful treatment of a bacterial infection . While many studies have considered the impacts of genetically encoded mechanisms of resistance , nongenetic determinants of antibiotic susceptibility during infection remain poorly understood . Here we show that a single interspecies interaction between 2 human pathogens , S . aureus and P . aeruginosa , can completely transform the antibiotic susceptibility profile of S . aureus . Through multiple distinct mechanisms , P . aeruginosa can antagonize or potentiate the efficacy of multiple classes of antibiotics against S . aureus . We identify the exoproducts responsible for altering S . aureus susceptibility to antibiotic killing , and furthermore demonstrate that these compounds are produced at varying levels in P . aeruginosa clinical isolates , with dramatic repercussions for S . aureus antibiotic susceptibility . Finally , we use a mouse model of P . aeruginosa–S . aureus coinfection to demonstrate that the presence of P . aeruginosa significantly alters the outcome of S . aureus antibiotic therapy in a host . These findings indicate that the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in polymicrobial infection is determined at the community level , with interspecies interaction playing an important and previously unappreciated role .
Dengue is the most common arbovirus infection in the world . A decrease in the number of blood platelets is an almost universal finding in severe dengue . Binding of the coagulation protein von Willebrand factor ( VWF ) and loss of sialic acid residues from the platelet membrane are two main mechanisms of clearance of senescent platelets under non-pathological conditions . Here , we show that platelets from patients with acute dengue have bound more VWF and have lost sialic acid from their membrane . Sialic acid can be cleaved by the enzyme neuraminidase . We show that neuraminidase activity in the plasma is not increased and that neither dengue virus itself nor nonstructural protein 1 , a protein secreted by dengue virus , cleave sialic acid from the platelet membrane . In contrast , binding of VWF to platelets results in translocation of neuraminidase to the platelet membrane and subsequent cleavage of sialic acid . This process could be inhibited by the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir , a commonly used anti-influenza drug . Altogether , our results indicate that VWF binding to platelets is increased in dengue infection , leading to the removal of sialic acid and platelet clearance . Oseltamivir may prevent this process and thus represent a novel treatment option for low platelet numbers in dengue infection .
Promoters are regulatory regions that control transcription of genes . A special class of promoters , known as bidirectional promoters , regulates expression of two genes instead of one . These promoters are situated between two adjacent genes whose transcription start sites are physically within 1 , 000 bp and oriented in opposite directions . Bidirectional promoters are found repeatedly in the genome , suggesting an important biological significance for this regulatory configuration . We developed an algorithm to map bidirectional promoters using data from a comprehensive list of transcribed sequences known as expressed sequence tags , or ESTs . This approach improved the number of previously characterized bidirectional promoters by 300% . Included in the new data are bidirectional promoters that regulate expression of genes implicated in somatic cancers . For instance , ten well-recognized genes implicated in breast and ovarian cancers were identified as having bidirectional promoters . Three of the genes are further related by having duplicate copies of the same binding site for a transcription factor within their bidirectional promoters . These binding sites are conserved among species , providing greater evidence that they are functionally important . This example , in which similar regulatory structures are used to control genes involved in cancer , illustrates how data can be mined from the comprehensive set of bidirectional promoters . Within this manuscript , we show statistical evidence that many cancer genes are regulated by bidirectional promoters . These promoters will be a valuable dataset for studying the role of gene regulation in tumor development .
A mind-blowing diversity of sex-determining mechanisms exists among eukaryotes , but highly differentiated sex chromosomes—a degenerate , gene-poor Y chromosome , and an often dosage-compensated X—appear to represent an evolutionary dead-end . In our manuscript , we systematically study the genomic composition of sex chromosomes across dipteran insects ( flies and mosquitoes ) , which are generally considered to show stable XY sex chromosomes . Our whole-genome analysis of 37 fly species from 22 families of Diptera uncovers tremendous hidden variation in sex chromosomes . Some species have newly gained or secondarily lost their sex chromosomes; in others , a different chromosome has replaced the original sex chromosome or multiple chromosomal elements have become incorporated into the sex chromosomes; still other species have female heterogametic sex chromosomes . We perform a comparative transcriptome analysis to show that dosage compensation has evolved multiple times , consistently through up-regulation of the single X chromosome in males . These species provide a rich resource to study sex chromosome biology in a comparative manner and show that similar selective forces have shaped the unique evolution of sex chromosomes in diverse fly taxa .
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) infection is linked to the development of severe fetal abnormalities that include spontaneous abortion , stillbirth , hydranencephaly , and microcephaly . The WHO in early February 2016 declared global ZIKV outbreaks and its link to birth defects an international public health emergency . ZIKV outbreaks have been recorded in the United States . In a quest to find a link between ZIKV infection and babies born with microcephaly in Hawaii , we investigated archived blood samples from mothers who gave birth in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012 to babies with microcephaly . ZIKV antibodies were detected in three ( 50% ) out of total six mothers who delivered babies with microcephaly . ZIKV showed a trend toward significance with microcephaly . This report adds to the potential evidence of a link between ZIKV infection and microcephaly and suggests presence of ZIKV positive cases and associated microcephaly in the United States as early as 2009 .
Buruli ulcer is a skin disease , which is endemic in over thirty countries , mostly in West Africa , with affected populations being largely rural . The causative organism , Mycobacterium ulcerans ( MU ) , is an environmental mycobacterium and although transmission is unclear , frequent exposure to these MU-contaminated environments have been suggested as risk factors . We conducted this study on the premise that if patients are infected from MU-contaminated water bodies , then the genotype of MU strains in these patients should be identical to those in their community associated water bodies and wetlands . Using Variable Number Tandem Repeat ( VNTR ) as a genetic tool , we determined the genotypes of MU from both water bodies and patient samples . Comparison and overlap of these genotypes , within each community , suggest that patients were possibly infected from at least one water body . Additionally , we present evidence that small mammals within endemic communities could be susceptible to MU infections and may be acting as reservoirs . Our findings suggest that future ecological and molecular studies in the hope of elucidating a definite transmission route , should focus on source-tracking MU infections to community associated risk environments while employing a OneHealth approach in the process .
The introduction of alien species is one of the primary ways in which human actions are changing the environment . Alien species have been responsible for numerous global and local extinctions and are eroding the uniqueness of many natural environments . There is thus a basic need to understand which areas end up with more alien species . Here , we use a major new global database on the distribution of alien birds to show , first , how patterns in the number of species introduced to a location ( colonisation pressure ) have changed over time . We show that historical introductions were driven largely by European , and especially British , colonialism . However , the rate of bird introductions is increasing , with shifts in the locations of origin and introduction of species probably driven by the cage bird trade . We then combine information on where bird species have been introduced with a global map of alien bird species richness to identify the main drivers of richness . We show that colonisation pressure is the strongest predictor of alien bird species richness , but that there are other anthropogenic and environmental drivers . Most notably , once colonisation pressure has been accounted for , alien bird species richness is higher in areas where native bird species richness is higher .
Upstream Binding Factor ( UBF ) is multi-HMGB-box protein found in all vertebrates . Although this protein has been implicated in transcription of the ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) gene in vitro , little is known of its function in vivo . We previously found that UBF creates a nucleosome-like structure on DNA , and that this structure is remodeled by MAP-kinase phosphorylation . Using conditional gene deletion in mouse and mouse cells we show that UBF defines the active chromatin domains of the rRNA genes and is essential for transcription of these genes . Using this system we show that , contrary to expectation , rRNA gene activity does not coordinate ribosome production . We further show that in the complete absence of rRNA synthesis a somatic nucleolar precursor body is formed . Our data show that UBF determines a dynamic transition between the active and inactive rRNA gene states that is independent of changes in DNA methylation .
The evolutionarily conserved Wnt/Wingless signal transduction pathway regulates cell proliferation and cell fate specification during animal development and tissue homeostasis . Deregulation of Wnt signaling triggers the development of nearly all colorectal cancers and is associated with several other diseases . Whereas it is well-established that Wnt ligands are secreted from the cells in which they are produced and move from there to distant cells , whether this movement is essential for Wnt function in cell fate specification has recently become controversial . The goal of this work was to determine whether the movement of Wnt ligands to distant cells is required for tissue patterning . We utilized a genetic model in the Drosophila adult intestine , which like its mammalian counterpart , is subdivided into compartments with distinct anatomy , physiology , functional roles , cell types , and gene expression patterns . Wingless , the primary Drosophila Wnt ligand , is expressed and activates signaling at each major intestinal compartment boundary to specify cell fate . We identified many processes in which Wingless is required for development of the adult intestine , and found that the ability of Wingless to move from its site of synthesis and act at long range is essential . This work demonstrates that the ability of Wingless to signal at long range is indeed critical for tissue formation and function , with relevance for animal development and human disease .
Subversion of the host fibrinolytic system by bacterial pathogens is recognised as a key process in severe disease initiation . Co-opting of plasmin by bacteria contributes to tissue destruction and bacterial dissemination , both hallmarks of invasive Group A streptococcal disease , and research aimed at therapeutic targeting of the nexus between group A streptococcus and the fibrinolytic system is increasing . The host plasminogen activator uPA is found at the surface of cells that contribute to epithelial and innate immune defense against bacterial infection , and may contribute to bacterial recruitment of plasmin , however , the role of uPA in group A streptococcal infection is not well characterised . Here , we describe for the first time the key role played by uPA in invasive group A streptococcal disease . The ability of this pathogen to cause severe infection , even in the absence of the bacterial plasminogen activator streptokinase , has significant implications for the development of therapeutics to control invasive bacterial infection .
Helicobacter pylori persistently colonizes the stomach in approximately half of the human population . People who are infected with H . pylori strains harboring the cag pathogenicity island ( PAI ) have an increased risk of developing gastric cancer . The cag PAI encodes a type IV secretion system ( T4SS ) that is utilized by the bacteria to inject the bacterial oncoprotein CagA into gastric epithelial cells . Related T4SSs found in several other bacteria have been studied in detail , but thus far there has been very little study of the H . pylori cag T4SS . Here , we utilized a mass spectrometry-based approach to reveal co-purification of three constituents of the H . pylori T4SS ( CagH , CagI , and CagL ) that lack homology to components of T4SSs in other bacterial species . These proteins are essential for CagA translocation into host cells , and scanning electron microscope studies reveal that the proteins are involved in the formation of pili at the bacterial-host cell interface . A conserved C-terminal motif present in CagH , CagI , and CagL is essential for functionality of the T4SS . This study highlights the important role played by unique constituents of the H . pylori cag T4SS , and illustrates the marked variation that exists among bacterial T4SSs .
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by Mycobacterium bovis , a member of a complex group of pathogens that also includes the bacterium causing human tuberculosis , M . tuberculosis . Vaccination of cattle might offer a long-term solution for controlling the disease and priority has been given to the development of a cattle vaccine against bTB . In addition to the relevance for the veterinary field , cattle can also serve as useful pre-clinical model for the development of human vaccines . Identification of biomarkers in tuberculosis research remains elusive and the goal of this study was to identify host markers that allow the prediction of vaccine success . In this experiment , the outcome of vaccination was measured against relevant endpoints based on disease severity . Our results , generated using the state-of-the-art methodology of transcriptome sequencing defined a dominant role of the cytokine IL-22 for predicting vaccine success . We therefore identified a predictive biomarker that can be used in future experiments and also highlighted the role of T cells producing this cytokine in protective immunity .
Eukaryotic cells require specific arrangements of microtubules to carry out diverse functions , including cell division and intracellular transport . In dividing animal cells , microtubules are arranged radially around two centrosomes , promoting the correct distribution of DNA into daughter cells . As cells differentiate , microtubules become organized at non-centrosomal sites , often yielding decentralized microtubule arrays . Although a large body of work has focused on understanding how microtubules are grown from and organized by the centrosome , very little is known about how these activities are performed at non-centrosomal sites . We optimized a technique to degrade proteins in C . elegans differentiated cells , specifically testing the role of essential centrosome proteins in building non-centrosomal microtubules , which emanate from the apical membrane in embryonic intestinal epithelial cells . Surprisingly , we found fundamental differences between the centrosome and membrane , both in the mechanisms that recruit microtubule regulators to each site , and in the proteins that are required to build and organize microtubules . In addition , we found that when fewer microtubules grew from membranes , the remaining microtubules grew faster , suggesting competition for limited materials . Together , our study highlights differences in how centrosomes and membranes grow and organize microtubules , and that multiple pathways contribute membrane-organized microtubules .
Humans are a diploid species that inherit one set of chromosomes paternally and one set of chromosomes maternally . Separating the nucleotide content of the maternally and paternally-derived chromosomes for an individual , i . e . , ‘phasing’ that individual’s genome , is not trivial with today’s sequencing technologies . This is in part due to the fact that most available sequencing technologies generate short sequencing reads that make it hard to assemble individual homologous chromosome pairs . Phase information can be crucial for putting into context the likely functional consequences of DNA sequence variants as well as certain evolutionary and population genetics phenomena . In order to assess the reliability of current sequencing-based phasing strategies , we compared 11 different approaches using a public domain reference genome as a test case . These phasing strategies included laboratory-based experimental techniques as well as purely computational approaches . Importantly , our comparisons show that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages population-based phasing via the SHAPEIT software suite works well and can be improved with the addition of genome-wide sequence read or parental genotype data .
The type-III protein secretion apparatus is a complex nanomachine responsible for secretion of building blocks and substrate proteins of the flagellum and the virulence-associated injectisome needle complex of many gram-negative pathogens . Type-III secretion systems utilize the energy of the proton motive force and ATP hydrolysis of a cytoplasmic ATPase to drive substrate export . The cytoplasmic components of the secretion system share strong homology to the FoF1 ATP synthase and it is thought that the flagellum was derived from a proto FoF1-ATP synthase where ATP hydrolysis energized the export process . Here , we report the dispensability of ATPase activity for the type-III protein export process in Salmonella . This finding has important implications for the evolution of the bacterial flagellum and type-III secretion systems , suggesting that a proto ATPase was added to a primordial proton-powered type-III export system with the evolutionary benefit of facilitating the export process .
Switch-like behavior is found across a wide range of biological systems , and as a result there is significant interest in identifying the various ways in which biochemical reactions can be combined to yield a switch-like response . In this work we use a set of mathematical tools from chemical reaction network theory that provide information about the steady-states of a reaction network irrespective of the values of network rate constants , to conduct a large computational study of a family of model networks consisting of only two protein-coding genes . We find that a large majority of these networks ( ∼90% ) have ( for some set of parameters ) the mathematical property known as bistability and can behave in a switch-like manner . Interestingly , the capacity for switch-like behavior is often maintained as networks increase in size through the introduction of new reactions . We then demonstrate using published yeast data how theoretical parameter-free surveys such as this one can be used to discover possible switch-like circuits in real biological systems . Our results highlight the potential usefulness of parameter-free modeling for the characterization of complex networks and to the study of network evolution , and are suggestive of a role for it in the development of novel synthetic biological switches .
Cleft lip and palate ( CLP ) is one of the most common congenital anomalies worldwide . Most of the time the cause is unknown . Affected individuals have multiple problems including difficulties with feeding and speech and have to undergo several operations to correct the orofacial cleft . We describe mutations in an enzyme involved in the development of the palate and heart ( Hyaluronidase 2 , HYAL2 ) as the cause of a syndrome of CLP and a congenital heart anomaly ( cor triatriatum sinister , CTS ) in families from the Amish community and Northern Saudi Arabia of Arabic ethnicity . Mice who lack this enzyme show similar features . HYAL2 is involved in the metabolism of hyaluronic acid , which is important in many tissues of the body . By illustrating a lack of HYAL2 causes CLP and CTS we have demonstrated the importance of HYAL2 for the normal development of the palate and heart , improving our understanding of the complex mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of CLP and CTS which may ultimately contribute to the development of novel therapies to treat these congenital anomalies .
The inner ear detects sound when stereocilia , the mechanosensory projections on the apical surface of the hair cells , are deflected and tug on tiny extracellular tip links . These links interconnect stereocilia and convey forces to the mechanosensitive transduction channels . Current models postulate a static composition of the tip link with protocadherin 15 ( PCDH15 ) at the link's bottom end and cadherin 23 ( CDH23 ) at the upper end . Tip links are subjected to substantial sound-induced forces . Although hair cells can renew ( regenerate ) disrupted tip links and restore hearing , the molecular details of this process are unknown . Our study provides mechanistic insight into tip link regeneration . We used backscatter scanning electron microscopy to monitor the distribution of immuno-gold labeled molecular components of the tip links during their re-formation and a conventional whole-cell patch-clamp technique to follow the concomitant recovery of mechano-electrical transduction . According to our data , the mechanotransduction machinery is initially re-established by the formation of functional ( mechanotransduction-mediating ) links of a previously unknown composition , PCDH15–PCDH15 . Transition to the PCDH15–CDH23 composition underlies final maturation of mechanotransduction . This two-step mechanism of tip link regeneration was unexpected . As tip links are continuously stressed by loud sounds and regenerated throughout an organism's life , we provide a plausible molecular mechanism for the life-long maintenance of mechanosensory function in nonregenerating cochlear hair cells .
Dengue is a re-emerging disease caused by dengue viruses ( DENV ) and half of the world’s population is now at risk of dengue infection . DENV can cause a spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild dengue fever ( DF ) to the potentially lethal dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) . The molecular mechanisms that trigger transition from DF to DHF are not well understood . To gain insights on the mechanisms of DHF pathogenesis , we performed metabolomic profiling of sera from adult DF and DHF patients at the critical phase of infection ( 5–7 days after onset of fever ) , the time point when the clinical symptoms of DHF become more evident . 29 differentially expressed metabolites between DF and DHF were identified , allowing us to discover a variety of metabolite pathways linked to DHF . They include bile acid biosynthesis , fatty acid β-oxidation , purine and pyrimidine metabolism , phospholipid catabolism , tryptophan and phenylalanine metabolism , and so on . The results advance our understanding on the mechanisms of DHF pathogenesis , and certain altered pathways being harnessed as therapeutic targets to alleviate DHF . These differentially expressed metabolites have the potential as biomarkers for disease monitoring and evaluation of therapeutic interventions .
Only a limited number of therapeutics for human African trypanosomiasis also known as African sleeping sickness is available today , and it narrows the choice of the drugs to escape from the side effects and the emergence of drug-resistant pathogens . The parasitic protozoa Trypanosoma brucei is the causative reagent of African trypanosomiasis , and is infective to various mammalian species . T . brucei and its mammalian hosts share almost the same metabolic machinery , and therefore it is important to understand the differences in biochemical properties of the metabolic enzymes between T . brucei and its hosts . Here we report that guanosine 5’-monophosphate reductase ( GMPR ) of T . brucei showed apparent differences in its primary structure and biochemical properties from those of its host counterparts , and was more sensitive to purine nucleotide analogs such as monophosphate forms of ribavirin and mizoribine than were the host GMPRs . Furthermore , ribavirin prevented the proliferation of trypanosomes in vitro . Our present findings may imply the availability of ribavirin and/or its derivatives in a treatment of African trypanosomiasis .
The treatment of cardiac arrhythmia , epilepsy and pain usually involves blocking the protein channels responsible for initiating electrical activity in nerves and muscles . Current drugs block all such channels , but improved medication requires compounds that can differentiate between the channels present in different parts of the body . Achieving this goal calls for a better understanding of the interactions of current drugs with the proteins . Here we use computer simulation to understand where a local anesthetic and an anti-epileptic bind to a bacterial sodium channel and how they find their way to this position , helping to uncover ways to selectively target different human channels .
MyD88-dependent signaling pathways play a critical role in the protective immune response during intestinal infections . However , the significance of MyD88-mediated signaling in specific intestinal immune and nonimmune cell types for the activation of the early innate , adaptive and epithelial host responses upon infection remains poorly understood . Using a novel knock-in mouse model for MyD88 , we report here that MyD88 signaling in CD11c+ dendritic cells ( DC ) is sufficient to activate RORγt+ group 3 innate lymphoid cells ( ILC3 ) as well as Th17/Th1 cells in response to infection with C . rodentium . In contrast , restricting functional MyD88 signaling to several other immune cell types , including macrophages ( MO ) , T cells and ILC3 did not result in intestinal immunity , while expression of MyD88 in intestinal epithelial cells ( IEC ) mainly enhanced epithelial barrier integrity . Together , our data suggest that MyD88 signaling in DC and IEC is both essential and sufficient to induce a full spectrum of host responses upon intestinal infection with C . rodentium .
Onchocerciasis is targeted for elimination in Africa through annual or biannual ivermectin mass drug administration . The elimination target places high demands on monitoring and evaluation systems , for timely detection of ongoing transmission and possible recrudescence . Guidelines recommend using serological evaluation by Ov16 , to determine the presence of IgG4 antibodies to the antigen Ov16 in children of less than 10 years in order to detect exposure to the O . volvulus parasite . In this paper , we use the mathematical model ONCHOSIM to explore how the post-MDA Ov16 antibody prevalence in children ( measured 1 year after the last round of MDA ) is related to local transmission conditions , observed trends in infection during mass drug administration the duration and coverage of mass treatment , test characteristics , mf prevalence and likelihood of interruption of transmission . The level of seroprevalence that is indicative of successful elimination was found to depend on local transmission conditions . This should be considered in survey methodology and criteria for defining whether mass drug administration can safely be interrupted . Remaining uncertainties about the dynamics of seroconversion and seroreversion further complicate the interpretation of seroprevalence data and the definition of thresholds .
Prions consist of PrPSc , an aggregated conformer of the host protein PrPC . PrPSc multiplies by catalyzing the conformational conversion of PrPC into a likeness of itself . Prions present as distinct strains that have the same primary amino acid sequence but differ in their conformation . Many distinct mouse-derived prions strains , for example RML , 22L or Me7 , have been isolated . Prions can adapt to their environment . We investigated whether propagation of swainsonine-sensitive RML prions in the presence of the drug would yield swainsonine-resistant variants . Interestingly , this was not possible with a standard line of neuroblastoma cells , but in certain sublines not only swainsonine-resistant , but even swainsonine-dependent populations ( i . e . that propagated more rapidly in the presence than in the absence of the drug ) could be isolated . Once established , they could be propagated “indefinitely” in PK1 cells , even in the absence of the drug , without losing swainsonine dependence . In summary , our paper shows that propagation of prions in the presence of an inhibitory drug may not only cause the selection of drug-resistant prions but even of stable prion variants that propagate more efficiently in the presence of the drug . These adaptations are most likely due to conformational changes of the abnormal prion protein .
Genotype-phenotype mapping is one of the ultimate goals of computational systems biology , and can provide new insights into the function and evolution of biological systems . We present a comprehensive genotype-phenotype map for a space of metabolic genotypes that comprises more than 1015 central carbon metabolisms . Only one in a million of these metabolisms can sustain life on any one of 10 carbon sources we consider , but these viable metabolisms form connected genotype networks that extend far through genotype space . In addition , they render multiple novel metabolic phenotypes in their immediate neighborhood accessible through small evolutionary changes that require only the alteration of single metabolic reactions . The map we construct reveals an organization of core metabolism that simultaneously facilitates evolutionary conservation of existing metabolic phenotypes , and the origination of novel metabolic traits that allow viability on novel carbon sources . Such metabolic innovation is essential , particularly for organisms that experience unexpected environmental changes , and that explore or invade new habitats .
Triatoma dimidiata is one of the broadest distributed triatomine species´ complexes transmitting Trypanosoma cruzi . In Mexico , three haplogroups of the T . dimidiata complex have been reported and all are primary vectors of Chagas disease south of the Tehuantepec Isthmus . Given their epidemiological importance , the question arises whether haplogroups have similar genetic diversity in domestic/modified landscapes , as well as infection characteristics and parasite DTU associations , key components of vector capacity . The aim of the present study was to analyze Triatoma dimidiata population genetics across landscapes , sub-regional , regional , and global Neotropical realm scales , using two contiguous fragments of the ND4 gene . Our results support previous evidence for the complex´s origin surrounding the Tehuantepec Isthmus , and provides evidence for recent divergence of three principal dimidiata haplogroups and significant secondary divergence within each . Differential T . cruzi prevalence and Discrete Typing Unit ( DTU ) specificity for individual haplogroups provide evidence for potential differential vector capacity within the complex in Mexico .
Hantaviruses are responsible for a disease called hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) , which is characterized by fever , headache , back pain , abdominal pain , hypotension , multi-systemic hemorrhage and acute renal failure in humans . China has the highest incidence of HFRS worldwide , accounting for 90% of global cases reported . Many factors can influence the incidence of HFRS , but the two main ones are related to the composition of the rodent community composition and the influence of the environment in the transmission of this disease . Here , we used a combination of 10-year ( 2006–2015 ) field surveillance on rodent reservoir of HFRS along with epidemiological and environmental data to investigate the factors related to the transmission of HFRS infections . Our results indicate that the occurrence of HFRS is influenced by the potential for rodent-to-human contact under different environmental conditions . Our findings , which offer novel insights into the networks used by hantavirus for transmission , could be used to optimize preventative interventions against HFRS disease .
HRAS was the first human proto-oncogene reported and p . Gly12Val in codon 12 the first oncogenic mutation described . Somatic mutations in HRAS are important drivers in cancer , and germline mutations cause Costello syndrome . Until now , it has been believed that the severity of mutations located in the HRAS codon 12/13 mutational hot spot sequence is exclusively determined by the activity of the encoded proteins . Here we show that mutations in exon 2 of the HRAS proto-oncogene can have a previously unrecognized effect on splicing efficiency and thereby determine HRAS activity . We report a patient with Costello syndrome ( CS ) , who despite having the classical , severe , oncogenic p . Gly12Val mutation in HRAS has a mild clinical phenotype . We show that this is due to his specific sequence change , c . 35_36GC>TG , encoding p . Gly12Val , which disrupts an ESE fundamental for efficient splicing of exon 2 . We have explored this in detail and were able to show that HRAS exon 2 is a weak exon , which is dependent on the balance between positive and negative splicing regulatory factors , like SRSF2 and hnRNPF/H in order to be properly included . We show that different mutations in the mutational hot spot in HRAS codon 12 and 13 ( c . 34-39 ) affect splicing of HRAS differently , suggesting that this mechanism may also influence their occurrence in CS and their oncogenic potential in somatic cancers . Finally , we show that blocking access to the fundamental ESE , located in HRAS c . 34-39 , using a splice switching oligonucleotide ( SSOs ) , causes exon 2 skipping , abolishes production of functional HRAS protein and halts proliferation of cancer cells . This shows a previously unknown weakness of the HRAS proto-oncogene , namely that exon 2 is weakly defined and therefore is a suitable target for SSO-based therapy , thereby pointing towards a potential new direction for therapeutic targeting of RAS in anti-cancer treatment .
N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) is an abundant modification in mRNA molecules and regulates mRNA metabolism and various biological processes , such as cell fate control , early embryonic development , sex determination , and diseases like diabetes and obesity . Adenosine methylation is regulated by a large methyltransferase complex and by demethylases , as well as by other binding proteins . METTL3 is one of the core subunits of the methyltransferase complex catalyzing m6A formation . However , the role of METTL3-mediated m6A in mammalian brain development remains unclear mainly because of the lack of specific spatiotemporal knockout animal models , as conventional METTL3 knockout in mice leads to early embryonic death . In this study , we specifically inactivated METTL3 in the developing mouse brain . We detected a drastic depletion of m6A accompanied by severe developmental defects in the cerebellum of these mice . Further analysis established that METTL3-mediated m6A participates in cerebellar development by controlling mRNA stability of genes related to cerebellar development and apoptosis and by regulating alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs of synapse-associated genes .
The mammalian body is composed of hundreds of distinct cell types . During embryogenesis , this diversity is created by multiple cell fate decisions and differentiation events . Embryonic stem ( ES ) cells provide the in vitro model to study differentiation and early development . Their pluripotent state is maintained by transcription factors such as OCT4 , SOX2 and NANOG which bind to regulatory elements within the genome . Understanding the interplay between transcription factor binding , gene expression and cellular differentiation is key to understanding the development of the mammalian embryo . In this study we find that combinatorial binding of OCT4 , SOX2 and NANOG in ES cells identifies enhancers which are associated with active transcription . We observe that these enhancers also frequently show activity at later developmental stages . Using data from mouse and human ES cells we find that these combinatorially bound enhancers which are active in pluripotent cells and development show extraordinarily high levels of binding conservation ( >50% ) . Our analysis suggests that these conserved “gene regulatory hotspots” integrate the transcriptional network that promotes pluripotency into the gene regulatory networks that promote cell fate decisions and differentiation during early embryonic development .
Acute myeloid leukemias ( AML ) are a group of hematologic malignancies initiated by chromosomal abnormalities that often give origin to oncogenic proteins with transcriptional regulatory functions . These aberrant transcription factors bind to specific sequences on DNA and influence the activity of adjacent genes . The result is that leukemic blasts display abnormalities in their gene expression programs , which are ultimately responsible for the malignant phenotype . In this study , genome-wide approaches were exploited not only to identify target genes , but also to discover interactions among different transcription factors , with the aim of defining disease-linked regulatory networks . We performed a detailed analysis of the DNA binding pattern of an oncogenic transcription factor , AML1/ETO , which is responsible for approximately 10–15% of AML . We identified a specific signature , which is characterized by the presence of binding regions for AML1/ETO and for other transcription factors , AML1 and HEB , and found that the DNA binding pattern of AML1 and HEB is significantly affected in cells expressing AML1/ETO . Our results , therefore , describe genes regulated by AML1/ETO and demonstrate that this oncogenic protein can significantly interfere with the function of other transcriptional regulators .
Leishmania donovani causes Visceral Leishmaniasis ( VL ) , a disease that plagues the world’s poor , particularly in Brazil , Sudan and the Indian sub-continent . If not treated in timely manner VL can be fatal , and due to emerging drug resistance the search for new drug targets continues . Thus , the parasite’s cellular processes remain an area of continued research interest . Eukaryotic DNA is packaged into nucleosomes to compact it , and the histone proteins that constitute a major part of the nucleosomes carry several modifications that affect biological processes . Our laboratory has been studying histone modifications with special attention to the impact of histone acetylation events in the parasite . The present report addresses the significance of one particular histone acetylation event , H4K10 , and the protein that mediates this acetylation , HAT2 . We find that HAT2 is essential for cell survival , and decrease in HAT2 levels leads to growth and cell cycle defects . From the results of further experiments performed by us we attribute these defects to lowered expression of certain cyclins . We find that the expression of these cyclins are activated in a cell cycle-dependent manner , and this activation is regulated by H4K10 acetylation .
The ability to decode another person's intentions is a critical component of social interactions . This is particularly important when we have to make decisions based on someone else's advice . Our research proposes that this complex cognitive skill ( social learning ) can be translated into a mathematical model , which prescribes a mechanism for mentally simulating another person's intentions . This study demonstrates that this process can be parsimoniously described as the deployment of hierarchical learning . In other words , participants learn about two quantities: the intentions of the person they interact with and the veracity of the recommendations they offer . As participants become more and more confident about their representation of the other's intentions , they make decisions more in accordance with the advice they receive . Importantly , our modeling framework captures individual differences in the social learning process: The estimated “learning fingerprint” can predict other aspects of participants' behavior , such as their perspective-taking abilities and their explicit ratings of the adviser's level of trustworthiness . The present modeling approach can be further applied in the context of psychiatry to identify maladaptive learning processes in disorders where social learning processes are particularly impaired , such as schizophrenia .
Scrub typhus is one of the high burdened infectious diseases in endemic rural areas . Our study showed that the disease could be endemic in urban areas . Indigenous urban scrub typhus may also have significant impact in terms of a disease burden and differential diagnosis . A low rate of characteristic eschar and skin rash may make the clinical suspicion more troublesome . Scrub typhus is the 3rd most frequent notifiable infectious disease in South Korea . Seoul is a densely populated capital city located in northwestern South Korea . We epidemiologically identified indigenous urban cases . A subgroup of them showed mild clinical characteristics . Direct mite collection from a suspected infection site , Mt . Gwanak in Seoul , showed that Helenicula miyagawai ( 87 . 4% ) and Leptotrombidium scutellare ( 9 . 2% ) were the dominant species . In addition , O . tsutsugamushi-specific gene , tsa56 , was identified in a fraction of the collected H . miyagawai . The 18S rDNA sequencing of the chigger mites was complementarily helpful for the differentiation of species . Our data are from one region , but urban scrub typhus is likely a scenario in endemic areas . Urban areas should be included as possible locations for scrub typhus .
Small RNAs ( sRNAs ) have been shown to be potent regulators of gene expression in many different systems . They act by providing sequence specificity to Argonaute ( Ago ) proteins that in turn affect the expression and/or stability of mRNAs , or affect chromatin structures through recognition of nascent transcripts . Stability of sRNAs can be regulated by methylation of their 3′ end . This modification prevents addition of uridine residues that can destabilize the sRNA . The enzyme that catalyzes the methylation of sRNAs has been identified in Arabidopsis: HEN1 . We describe studies on the C . elegans homolog of Hen1 , henn-1 . Our findings show that HENN-1 protein does not stably associate with the Ago proteins binding methylated sRNAs , but that HENN-1 does localize to subcellular regions known to host these factors . We find that the two known methylated sRNA species in C . elegans ( 21U and 26G ) respond differently to loss of henn-1 . While HENN-1 is required for 26G RNA stability in the germline , it has limited impact on 21U RNAs . In addition , we demonstrate that only ERGO-1–bound 26G RNAs are methylated , while those bound by ALG-3/4 , are not . Our findings further refine the general understanding of 21U and 26G RNA pathways and identify two separable effects of HENN-1 on these RNAi–related mechanisms .
By combining recently developed high-throughput glycan analysis with genome-wide association study , we performed the first comprehensive analysis of common genetic polymorphisms that affect protein glycosylation . Over half of all proteins are glycosylated; but , due to difficulties in glycan analysis and the absence of a genetic template for their synthesis , knowledge about the complex processes that regulate glycan assembly is still limited . We demonstrated that HNF1α regulates the expression of key fucosyltransferase and fucose biosynthesis genes and acts as a master regulator of plasma protein fucosylation . Proper protein fucosylation is essential in numerous processes including inflammation , cancer , and coronary heart disease , thus the identification of a master regulator of plasma protein fucosylation has important implications for understanding both normal biological functions and disease processes .
Here we address the issue of how genetic information is passed from one generation to the next without the involvement of specific DNA sequences . This type of inheritance is referred to as epigenetics . Centromeric sequences are highly variable and in many cases are not sufficient for centromere function . Rather , secondary features of the DNA , such as methylation or associated RNA molecules may serve to recruit key centromere binding proteins . Prior data from several species have established that single-stranded RNAs are surprisingly abundant on centromeric chromatin . Here we identified the DNA-binding domain of a key centromere binding protein in maize ( CENPC ) and showed that it requires single-stranded RNA to effectively bind DNA in vitro . When the DNA/RNA binding domain was deleted , the accuracy of CENPC targeting to centromeres was reduced but not abolished . The results bolster the view that centromere-bound RNA is one component of the epigenetic determination process that assures centromeres are stably inherited . In addition , our data suggest a general mechanism for how RNA can influence the binding of chromatin proteins to DNA .
Genetic studies ( e . g GWAS ) revealed substantial heritability on birth weight ( BW ) , childhood obesity ( CO ) and childhood body mass index ( CBMI ) , however , the etiological mechanisms and relevant tissue ( s ) underlying these traits/conditions are not clear . We incorporated the data from largest GWASes to date and placenta expressional quantitative trait loci ( eQTL ) that have been newly published , and showed the variants associated with BW , CO and CBMI were substantially enriched for placenta eQTLs ( 6 . 76 , 4 . 83 and 2 . 26 folds , respectively ) . Importantly , compared to eQTLs in 7 adult tissues such as adipose and liver , only eQTLs in the placenta were found to contribute significantly not only to anthropometry outcomes at birth ( BW ) but also to childhood phenotypes ( CO/CBMI ) . Further , we employed COLOC and MetaXcan analyses and identified placenta transcripts potential mediate the genetic effect of BW/CO/CBMI GWAS loci . In summary , our study strongly supports a key role for the placenta in determining BW , CO and CMBI at the molecular level , and pinpointed genes whose expression levels in placenta potentially influences BW and CO risk .
A significant number of PKDL patients have been detected in the endemic areas of Malda who would remain undiagnosed without active mass surveys . Such active survey is required in other endemic areas of the country to attain the ultimate goal of eliminating Kala-azar from this part of the world by reducing the source of infection . PCR-based method is helpful in confirming diagnosis of PKDL , which is not applicable at field level . A referral laboratory at district or state level can be a solution to the problem . Since PKDL cases do not have a fatal outcome , treatment administration of these cases can be deferred until confirmed results are obtained , which requires about 7 days’ time . The detection of leishmanial DNA in skin lesions during successive treatment courses is essential to establish whether/ when PKDL patients are parasite free during/after treatment and to determine which PKDL patients need treatment for a longer period .
Development of competence for genetic transformation by cultures of pneumococcal cells has been considered till now as a classic example of quorum sensing , whereby a culture attaining a sufficient cell density detects a diffusible signaling molecule ( in this case , Competence-Stimulating Peptide ( CSP ) ) and switches en masse to a distinct physiological state . We find that the competence shift is dictated not by cell density but by growth for a time allowing emergence of a competence-initiator sub-population , and spreads by transmission of CSP through cell contact . This behaviour reflects the survival benefits of allowing subsets of the population to respond to environmental stress by generating signalling capacity , which prepares the entire population for a rapid and appropriate response to threatening conditions .
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are the most prevalent sexually transmitted infections and are responsible for about 5% of total human cancers worldwide . These small DNA viruses must enter cells and deliver their genomes to the host cell nucleus to successfully establish an infection . A major barrier that HPVs and other non-enveloped viruses must overcome is the limiting membrane—the host cellular membrane through which the viral genome must be transported en route to the nucleus . Here we have developed a novel enzyme-dependent assay to study what is called penetration or translocation of the limiting membrane by the HPV16 minor capsid protein L2 . We find that translocation is strictly dependent on host cell division , specifically progression into mitosis , and occurs post trans-Golgi-network localization . After exiting the trans-Golgi network the viral genomes are seen decorating the segregating mitotic chromosomes , to ensure the equal partitioning into and infection of the daughter cells . The remarkable timing with , and absolute dependence of , this event on mitosis likely dictates the natural tropism of these viruses for the replicating basal keratinocytes of differentiating epithelial tissues . Further work will be necessary to fully understand the molecular mechanisms of this extraordinary mitosis-dependent phenomenon .
Determining which of two related viruses will spread from human to human more efficiently – e . g . an influenza virus that is treatable with drugs and one that is resistant to them – is important when forecasting the potential impact of an emergent novel virus or developing public health intervention strategies . However , making such measurements of relative transmissibility directly through observation , even using an animal model , is difficult . We have recently developed and published an experimental technique in which an animal is infected with both viruses of interest at once , and then allowed to mix with other animals and so transmit the infection . These experiments provide the necessary data for analysis using the novel mathematical framework that we introduce here . Our mathematical and computational results exploit the power of the experimental system , and allow us to make a quantitative estimate of the relative transmissibility of a drug-resistant influenza virus compared to its drug-sensitive counterpart . Through computer simulation , we demonstrate the wider application of our mathematical technique , and suggest design criteria for future experiments designed to measure the transmissibility of one virus ( or other type of pathogen ) compared to another .
Many factors such as light , phytohormone abscisic acid ( ABA ) , etc . , regulate multiple developmental processes throughout the plants' life cycle . Light promotes seed germination and ABA maintains seed dormancy . However , little is known about how light and ABA signaling pathways interact with each other . It was previously reported that Arabidopsis HY5 , a well-known bZIP transcription factor involved in promoting seedling photomorphogenesis , is involved in ABA signaling by directly activating ABI5 expression . Here , we report that the B-box protein BBX21 negatively regulates ABI5 expression by interfering with HY5 binding to the ABI5 promoter . Interestingly , ABI5 was shown to directly bind to its own promoter and activate its expression , whereas BBX21 also negatively regulates this activity by interacting with ABI5 . Together , our study shows that light and ABA signaling pathways converge on the ABI5 promoter , on which BBX21 acts as a negative regulator of ABI5 expression .
In this study , we compared the roles of Mediator , a central transcriptional regulator in all eukaryotes , between the pathogenic fungus Candida albicans and the non-pathogenic model yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe . We discovered that Mediator has both shared and species-specific functions in the three yeasts . The shared functions include regulation of genes required for cell separation after cell division by the Middle domain subunit Med31 . The species-specific functions include transcriptional regulation of the cell wall adhesins , which play key roles in the pathogenesis of C . albicans . In C . albicans , the Mediator subunits Med31 , Med20 , and Srb9/Med13 are activators of the ALS cell wall adhesins . In S . cerevisiae , our results and previous reports suggest an opposite , repressive role in the expression of the FLO genes and in adhesion-dependent phenotypes . The C . albicans Med31 , Med20 , and Srb9/Med13 contribute to processes highly important for disease: the switch to filamentous morphology and biofilm formation . Moreover , Med31 impacts on virulence in an invertebrate infection model . Our study has implications for understanding the regulation over virulence-associated genes in C . albicans and the roles of a key transcriptional regulator in this process .
Biofilms , matrix-enclosed surface-colonized communities of bacteria , are extremely resistant to antimicrobial agents , withstanding concentrations of antibiotics orders of magnitude higher compared to free-swimming planktonic cells . This is a well-established characteristic of infections caused by the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa , the major cause of morbidity in cystic fibrosis patients and a frequent cause of nosocomial infections , and Pseudomonas infections generally persist despite the use of long-term antibiotic therapy . Nonetheless , the genetic basis of the hyper-tolerance of biofilms to antimicrobial agents is poorly understood . In this study , we use a genome-wide genetic footprinting technology to systematically quantify the contribution of each locus in P . aeruginosa to antibiotic tolerance in both biofilm and planktonic states . Comparing and contrasting the genome-wide genetic profile of these two physiological states revealed that large sets of genes modulate antibiotic tolerance as a function of the cellular state .
Identifying the systematic interactions of multiple components within a complex biological system can be challenging due to the number of potential processes and the concomitant lack of information about the essential dynamics . Selection algorithms that allow an automated evaluation of a large number of different models provide a useful tool in identifying the systematic relationships between experimental data . However , many of the existing model selection algorithms are not able to address complex model structures , such as systems of differential equations , and partly rely on local or exhaustive search methods which are inappropriate for the analysis of various biological systems . Therefore , we developed a flexible model selection algorithm that performs a robust and dynamical search of large model spaces to identify complex systems dynamics and applied it to the analysis of T cell proliferation dynamics within different culture conditions . The algorithm , which is available as an R-package , provides an advanced tool for the analysis of complex systems behaviour and , due to its flexible structure , can be applied to a large variety of biological problems .
Chagas is a zoonosis endemic in 21 Latin American countries caused by T . cruzi . Results of common Benznidazole ( BNZ ) treatment vary by infection phase , treatment period , and dosage . In Bolivia , the national Chagas program controls vector distribution in different regions of the country . The program began BNZ treatment in school-age children from infestation-free endemic areas . Lack of information regarding follow-up and efficacy in children with recent chronic Chagas makes treatment failure difficult to detect in endemic areas . The present study aimed to estimate parasite DNA in blood through quantitative real-time and conventional PCR ( qPCR , cPCR ) , and observe Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokine profiling during a 12-month follow-up in Bolivia school children . Results showed persistence of low , substantial amounts of T . cruzi DNA , and significantly higher IL-17A levels in the seropositive group before treatment than the seronegative group , which decreased to seronegative levels one year later . Of 57 treated , 6 showed cPCR positive results 6 months after treatment and were diagnosed as definitely non-reactive ( 10 . 5% ) . The six non-reactive individuals showed significantly higher levels of IL-17A at 12 months than residual reactive ( cPCR negative , qPCR negative ) and ambiguously reactive ( cPCR negative , qPCR positive ) groups , indicating that IL-17A might be a biomarker for non-reactive to BNZ .
Transposons are mobile DNA elements that can jump from one location in the genome to another . They have had a profound influence on the evolutionary history of most , if not all , organisms by rearranging the order of genes and changing their expression patterns . The mariner family of transposons is probably the most successful group if judged by the breadth and depth of its phylogenetic distribution . One example is the Correia element , which has been amplified to a few hundred copies in Neisseria meningitidis . Transposons often encode promoters that drive the expression of adjacent genes . This raises the question of whether the large numbers of Correia elements in N . meningitidis have a significant genome-wide role in the control of gene expression . This is an interesting issue because N . meningitidis has evolved recently , having been first recognized in the 19th century , and is probably undergoing a period of rapid adaptation . Here we present a systematic analysis that defines eight sub-classes of Correia elements . We show that two subtypes encode strong promoters . The differential distribution of the strongest Correia promoter in the three strains provides a snapshot of evolution in action and sheds new light on the role of dispersed repeats in bacterial genomes .
Filamentous fungi produce chemically diverse metabolites that broker positive and negative interactions with other organisms , manage host pathogenicity/virulence , nutritional and environmental stresses , and differentiation of the fungus . The maize pathogen Cochliobolus heterostrophus is notorious as the causal agent of the most economically devastating epidemic to date , in 1970 . Disease severity was associated with appearance of a new race , producing T-toxin , a host selective toxin promoting high virulence to Texas male sterile cytoplasm maize , widely planted at the time . LaeA and VeA are central regulators of secondary metabolism in Aspergillus , coordinating metabolite production and differentiation in response to light . Given the significance of effector-type host selective toxins in pathogenic interactions , we characterized ChLae1 and ChVel1 and found that deletion and overexpression affect T-toxin production in planta and in vitro . Both chlorosis due to T-toxin and necrotic lesion formation are altered , establishing these as the first factors known to regulate both super virulence conferred by T-toxin , and basic pathogenicity , due to unknown factors . The mutants are also altered in oxidative stress responses , key to success in the infection court , asexual and sexual development , essential for fungal dissemination in the field , aerial hyphal growth , and pigment biosynthesis , essential for survival in the field .
In this paper we show that bacterial voltage-gated sodium channels ( Nav ) conduct ions differently in the inward direction and in the outward direction because extracellular K+ blocks these channels . The mechanism of block by K+ is revealed in the simulations only when effects of applied forces in the inward direction are considered appropriately . The block of bacterial Nav channels by K+ explains the experimental findings that inward K+ current in bacterial Nav channels is very small under conditions where most mammalian Nav channels conduct significant K+ current . The block by K+ ions can occur in the bacterial Nav channels but is very unlikely to occur in mammalian channels due to differences in the amino acid sequences of the selectivity filters of the different channels .
Dogs with rabies can show the furious or paralytic form . The virus spreads from nerve cell to nerve cell via connections in cell processes . There are greater amounts of virus in the nerve cell bodies in the furious form . Studying cell processes separate from cell body provides a visual record of the spread of rabies virus . The amount of rabies viral protein within cell processes was measured in dogs with rabies ( 5 furious and 5 paralytic ) sacrificed shortly after developing illness . The amount of viral protein in cell processes decreased from spinal cord to brain , as did the amount of viral protein in cell bodies and the percentage of involved cell bodies . However , there was a delay in cell process involvement following cell body involvement , consistent with the virus replicating in the cell body region and later moving out to cell processes . Greater amounts of viral protein were seen in cell processes in dogs with the furious compared to paralytic form , by comparing nerve cells with similar amounts of antigen , or similar percentages of involved nerve cells . These findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in paralytic rabies , resulting in slower viral spread in the brain .
There is still much to learn about the organisation of regulatory elements that control where , when , and how much individual genes in the genome are transcribed . Several types of regulatory element have been identified; some , such as enhancers , act over large genomic distances . This creates a problem: how do such long-range elements only regulate their appropriate target genes ? Insulator elements have been proposed to act as barriers within the genome , confining the effects of long-range regulatory elements . Here we have mapped the locations of one insulator-binding protein , CTCF , in several regions of the Drosophila genome . In particular , we have focussed on the Hox gene cluster in the Bithorax complex; a region whose regulation has been extensively characterised . Previous investigations have identified independent regulatory domains that control the expression of Bithorax complex genes in different segments of the fly , however the molecular nature of the domain boundaries is unclear . Our major result is that we find CTCF binding sites precisely located at the boundaries of these regulatory domains , giving a common molecular basis for these boundaries . This provides a clear example of the link between the positioning of insulators and the organisation of gene regulation in the Drosophila genome .
The notion of induced fit when a protein binds its ligand—like a glove adapting to the shape of a hand—is a central concept of structural biochemistry introduced over 50 years ago . A detailed molecular demonstration of this phenomenon has eluded biochemists , however , largely due to the difficulty of capturing the steps of this very transient process: the “conformational change . ” In this study , we were able to see this process by using X-ray diffraction to determine more than 10 distinct structures adopted by a single enzyme when it binds a ligand . To do this , we took advantage of the “slow , tight-binding” of a potent inhibitor to its specific target enzyme to trap intermediates in the binding process , which allowed us to monitor the action of an enzyme in real-time at atomic resolution . We showed the kinetics of the conformational change from an initial open state , including the encounter complex , to the final closed state of the enzyme . From these data and other biochemical and biophysical analyses , we make a coherent causal reconstruction of the sequence of events leading to inhibition of the enzyme's activity . We also generated a movie that reconstructs the sequence of events during the encounter . Our data provide new insights into how enzymes achieve a catalytically competent conformation in which the reactive groups are brought into close proximity , resulting in catalysis .
Most of the sensory information in the early visual system is relayed from the retina to the primary visual cortex through principal relay cells in the thalamus . While relay cells receive ∼7–16% of their synapses from retina , they integrate the synaptic barrage of a dense cortical feedback , which accounts for more than 60% of their total input . This feedback is thought to carry some form of “prior” resulting from the computation performed in cortical areas , which influences the response of relay cells , presumably by regulating the transfer of sensory information to cortical areas . Nevertheless , its statistical nature ( input synchronization , excitation/inhibition ratio , etc . ) and the cellular mechanisms gating thalamic transfer are largely ignored . Here we implemented hybrid circuits ( biological and modeled cells ) reproducing the main features of the thalamic gate and explored the functional impact of various statistics of the cortical input . We found that the regulation of sensory information is critically determined by the statistical coherence of the cortical synaptic bombardment associated with a stochastic facilitation process . We propose that this tuning mechanism could operate in the intact brain to selectively filter the sensory information reaching cortical areas according to attended features predesignated by the cortical feedback .
Errors in meiosis are the leading cause of miscarriages , as well as developmental and intellectual disabilities . We have identified that NMAD-1 , an enzyme which removes methyl moieties from nucleic acids , is essential for appropriate DNA damage response , DNA replication and meiosis in the nematode C . elegans . We have cytologically and genetically characterized the defects which occur due to deletion of NMAD-1 in the C . elegans germline . Additionally , we have begun to determine molecularly how NMAD-1 can regulate DNA replication , by demonstrating that NMAD-1 binds to components of the DNA replication machinery and is required for their appropriate localization to DNA . Characterizing how epigenetic modifications and the corresponding enzymes that add or remove epigenetic modifications can control the fundamental process of meiosis will have broad implications for understanding and eventually correcting errors in meiosis that disrupt normal development .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a prototypic β-herpesvirus that merits attention because of its ubiquitous prevalence and clinical significance among immature and immune compromised populations . Since its first isolation in 1956 , there have been continuous efforts on understanding the infection mechanism of HCMV , which could serve as the basis for antiviral drugs and vaccines . Unfortunately , understanding of HCMV infection mechanisms and key host cellular factors involved in viral entry remain elusive , partly due to the complexity of HCMV . We report here identification of a type II membrane protein , adipocyte plasma membrane associated protein ( APMAP ) , as a novel modulator promoting HCMV infection . We demonstrated that APMAP is both necessary and sufficient for HCMV infection of multiple cell types . APMAP may function through the interaction with viral gH/gL-containing glycoprotein complexes at low pH and mediate nuclear translocation of pp65 , a viral tegument protein . Taken together , our results indicate that APMAP serves as an augmenting modulator of HCMV at the early stage of viral infection .
Complex biomolecular interaction pathways in signaling networks can lead to non-intuitive behaviors that can prove critical for the regulation and robustness of biological processes . In this work , we present a signaling topology that can generate dynamic responses that are particularly pertinent to cell commitment in hematopoiesis . Our minimal model explores fundamental questions of instructive signaling that have persisted in cell-fate decisions . We show that even when lineage commitment decisions are inherently noisy , external cytokine signals , amplified by receptor upregulation , can bias the lineage choices of a progenitor cell . The multipotent progenitor , based on its differentiation potential , can exhibit several layers of memory to provide stability to both intermediate and mature states and can potentially bypass canonical intermediate states in generating mature cell types . Thus , our model provides a computational framework that can accommodate both classical and non-classical commitment paths in hematopoiesis .
Orthobunyaviruses comprise a group of emerging arboviruses within the Bunyaviridae , the largest family of membrane-containing viruses . In spite of the continued medical impact upon human and animal health , little is known about orthobunyavirus structure or the process of host cell entry . Here , we address this paucity of information through electron cryo-microscopy analysis of Bunyamwera virus , the prototypic representative of this genus . We reveal that Bunyamwera virions are pleomorphic and display locally-ordered lattices of viral glycoprotein spikes on the envelope surface . The three-dimensional structure of the glycoprotein spike was resolved to 3 . 0-nm resolution . The spike is composed of the attachment and fusion glycoproteins and comprises a unique tripodal organization . This glycoprotein arrangement contrasts those observed in other virus families . Consistent with the established pH-dependent mechanism of membrane fusion during host cell entry , we provide evidence for the disruption of this tripodal assembly upon exposure to acidic environments . These data constitute a blueprint for orthobunyavirus architecture and support a case for broadened structural diversity within the Bunyaviridae family .
The anterior chamber is the space within the eye which is bound by the cornea , and the anterior surfaces of the iris and lens . Anterior chamber depth ( ACD ) is the distance measured along the eye's optical axis , from the cornea to the lens surface . ACD is an important risk factor for primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ) , a major cause of irreversible blindness worldwide , and in particular , individuals of Asian ethnicity . In order to identify the genes that underlie PACG susceptibility , we conducted a two-staged study . We first conducted a large scale genetic study on a total of 5 , 308 population-based individuals of Asian descent to identify the genetic variants that influence ACD . This was followed by testing for associations between the identified genetic variant and PACG in another independent collection of 4 , 276 PACG cases and 18 , 801 controls . We found that a genetic variant within ABCC5 was associated with an increased risk of having PACG . Our findings suggest that the increase in PACG risk could in part be mediated by genetic sequence variants that influence the anterior chamber dimensions of the eye .
Flies and worms have long served as valuable model organisms for the study of human development and health . Despite the great morphological and evolutionary distance between them , humans , flies , and worms share many commonalities . Each develops from three major germ layers and is patterned along the two major spatial axes . At the molecular level , development in these widely diverged species is often controlled by the same signaling pathways activating members of the same transcription factor and target gene families , shared since the common ancestor of humans , flies , and worms . And yet , at the gene regulatory level , humans and flies or worms seem starkly different , with not a single regulatory region shared across the phyla . Here we discover the first two examples of developmental enhancers conserved between deuterostomes ( ranging from human to sea urchins ) and protostomes ( a large clade that includes flies and worms ) . We show evidence that these ancient regulatory loci retain the capacity to respond to the same signaling pathways in these widely diverged organisms , and we show that they have been co-opted , along with the molecular pathways that control them , to pattern the vertebrate nervous systems . Our screen supports large scale regulatory rewiring , while offering the first intriguing outliers .
Influenza is a significant global health problem . Vaccination is the best way to prevent influenza virus infection , and seasonal influenza vaccines are considered for reformulation each year in order to keep up with the virus’ evolution . Despite these efforts , vaccine recipients often develop an immune response that does not protect from infection . Given the current recommendation that all people over 6 months of age get vaccinated , it is important to understand how vaccination itself may impact viral evolution during natural human infection . We studied how vaccination may alter viral evolution within individuals , as each person harbors many highly-related influenza variants that differ in their ability to escape the immune response . We compared groups of people in a vaccine trial to determine the impact that vaccination has on viral diversity and variant selection within individuals . We did not detect significant differences in the number of variants detected or in the prevalence of mutations that could impact antibody binding based on vaccination group or antibody response . Our work suggests that vaccination is not a major factor in driving the emergence of new influenza strains at the level of the individual host .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani . There is no effective vaccine available against VL for any age group and importantly , there are no previous studies regarding immune responses against experimental Leishmania vaccines tested in aged animals . We have reported earlier that immunization with a live attenuated L . donovani parasites ( LdCen-/- ) induced protective immune response in young animals viz , mice , hamsters and dogs . In this study we analyzed LdCen-/- mediated modulation of innate and adaptive responses in aged mice and compared to young mice . We observed that LdCen-/- infected dendritic cells from young and aged mice resulted in enhanced innate effector functions compared to LdWT parasites both in vitro and in vivo . Further , upon virulent challenge , LdCen-/- immunized young and aged mice displayed protective Th1 immune response which correlated with a significantly reduced parasite burden in the visceral organs compared with naïve challenged mice . Although there was no difference in the LdCen-/- induced dendritic cell response between aged and young mice; adaptive response in aged was reduced , compared to young which correlated with less protection in aged compared to young mice . This study supports the potential use of LdCen-/- as vaccine candidate across all age groups against VL .
Enteroviruses ( EV ) are one of the most frequent human pathogens worldwide , causing a broad spectrum of diseases , ranging from the common cold to fatal flaccid paralysis . Surprisingly , this vast phenotypic diversity is not reflected at the genetic level , where despite intensive research , the factors contributing to these variations remain poorly understood . By generating novel chimeric viruses derived from a respiratory ( EV-D68 ) and an enteric ( EV-D94 ) EV , we highlight the crucial role of capsid proteins in acid sensitivity , in vitro tropism and optimal growth temperature . We also show that while capsid proteins are central to the biophysical viability of EV , they elicit only minor effects on the innate immune response . This work identifies key players in the pathogenesis of these highly prevalent viruses , which not only improves our understanding of their biology , but may also better guide the selection of new targets for vaccine and antiviral innovations .
Herpes Simplex Virus 1 ( HSV-1 ) infects 40–80% of adults worldwide . HSV-1 initiates infection at mucosal surfaces and spreads along sensory neurons to establish a life-long latent infection that can lead to neurological diseases . Humans usually develop IgG antibodies that specifically recognize pathogens via fragment antigen binding ( Fab ) variable regions . HSV-1 can avoid the protective effects of antibodies by producing gE-gI , a receptor that binds to the constant portion of IgGs ( Fc ) , thereby tethering the antibody in a position where it cannot trigger downstream immune functions . A gE-gI–bound IgG can participate in antibody bipolar bridging ( ABB ) such that the Fabs bind a viral antigen and the Fc binds gE-gI . The fate of ABB complexes had been unknown . We used live cell fluorescent imaging to follow ABB complexes during their formation and transport within a cell . We demonstrated that ABB assemblies were internalized into acidic intracellular compartments , where gE-gI dissociated from IgG–viral antigen complexes and the IgG and antigen were targeted for degradation within lysosomes . These results suggest that gE-gI mediates clearance of infected cell surfaces of both anti-viral IgGs and viral antigens , a general mechanism to facilitate latent infection by evading IgG-mediated responses .
The successful infection establishment of parasites depends on their ability to combat their host's immune system while maintaining metabolic adaptation to their hosts . The mechanisms of these processes are not well understood . We used the protoscoleces ( PSCs ) of E . granulosus as a model system to study this complex host-parasite interaction by investigating the role of excretory-secretory proteins ( ESPs ) in the physiological adaptation of the parasite . Using Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis , we predicted 2280 ESPs and analyzed their biological functions . Our analysis of the bioinformatic data suggested that ESPs are integral to the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins within the parasite and/or hosts . We also found that ESPs are involved in mediating the immune responses of hosts and function within key development-related signaling pathways . We found 11 intracellular enzymes , 25 molecular chaperones and four proteases that were highly represented in the ESPs , in addition to 44 antigenic proteins that showed promise as candidates for vaccine or serodiagnostic development purposes . These findings provide valuable information on the mechanisms of metabolic adaptation in parasites that will aid the development of novel hydatid treatment and control targets .
Nitrate serves as a major source of nitrogen nutrition for plants , algae and fungi , but the molecular details of how the nitrate signal is transduced to transcription factors regulating the expression of the nitrate assimilation genes are not known . To identify possible signaling mechanisms , we analyzed post-translational modifications in the pathway-specific activator NirA by mass spectrometry and found that NirA activity correlates with the oxidation status of a conserved methionine ( Met169 ) in the regulatory nuclear export sequence ( NES ) . This oxidation-reduction switch influences the overall conformation of the protein , which defines whether the NES is exposed or blocked . Site-directed mutagenesis and a forward-genetic suppressor screen identified two domains of NirA , which are regulating NES accessibility , subcellular distribution and the transcriptional activity of NirA . Our data for the first time establish a link between nitrate signaling and the redox status of the cell .
There are few quantitative examples for how functional constraints bound and shape evolution . Sodium channels are a central player in the propagation of action potentials . Action potentials fire above a critical voltage threshold . Below the voltage threshold the membrane potential recovers to a resting value , which is assumed to be unique . Here we ask whether the properties of mammalian voltage-gated sodium channels are determined by the simplest possible constraints . We demonstrate that the requirements , ( 1 ) a voltage threshold and ( 2 ) a unique resting potential , severely constrain sodium channel properties . These constraints contain no free parameters , depending only on the concentrations of potassium inside and outside the cell . We test these predictions on functional data from the nine mammalian genes encoding voltage-gated sodium channels . All measurements obey the excitability constraint , whereas channels expressed in the nervous system systematically violate the constraint for a unique resting potential . These properties alone distinguish the nine sodium channels into four groups consistent with phylogenetic analysis . Our calculations suggest that different channel types have evolved to perform different tasks .
The 2009 influenza pandemic , the on-going potential threat of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian strains and the widespread occurrence of resistance to current anti-influenza drugs targeting the neuraminidase or the M2 ion channel , all highlight the need for alternative therapeutic options to treat serious influenza infections in the absence of protection by vaccination . The viral polymerase , which performs transcription and replication of the RNA genome , is an attractive target for novel antiviral drugs since potent polymerase inhibitors will directly stall replication . The heterotrimeric polymerase performs transcription by a unique cap-snatching mechanism , which involves host pre-mRNA cap-binding and endonucleolytic cleavage by the PB2 and PA subunits respectively . Crystal structures of both the PB2 cap-binding and PA nuclease domains are now available allowing structure-guided optimisation of cap-snatching inhibitors . Here we present a series of co-crystal structures of the 2009 pandemic H1N1 PA endonuclease domain that reveal the binding mode of several known endonuclease inhibitors . All inhibitors chelate the two manganese ions in the active site of the nuclease but different extensions to the metal binding scaffold bind in distinct sub-pockets of the active site cavity . These results highlight the value of structure-based approaches to the development of more potent influenza polymerase inhibitors .
Snake envenomation is a serious medical problem in various tropical developing countries . Though antivenoms are the main and rational treatment , they are often of low potency , expensive and/or not available . Moreover , most antivenoms are specific for the treatment of one single snake species and thus necessitate catching the culprit snake so the correct antivenom can be administered . Studies currently are being conducted with the aim of eliminating these shortcomings and to produce polyspecific antivenom capable of neutralizing multiple snake venoms . Production of snake antivenoms involves immunization of an animal , usually horses , with snake venom ( s ) . The serum or plasma is then fractionated to yield antivenom antibodies . While the fractionation processes have been well established , the immunization protocol for the preparation of high potency antisera has rarely been reported in detail . This report describes an effective immunization protocol for the production of potent polyspecific horse antisera against all 3 medically important viper venoms of Thailand ( Russell’s viper , Malayan pit viper and green pit viper ) . The antivenom prepared from the antisera should be useful for the treatment of these viper bites . The immunization protocol should be useful in the production of other potent polyspecific antisera as well as equine antisera against other diseases .
Bacteria belonging to the genus Salmonella are capable of causing long-term chronic systemic infections , and bacteria primarily reside within macrophages in lymphoid tissues and sporadically are shed in the feces . These persistently infected individuals serve as a significant reservoir for disease transmission . Despite the importance of Salmonella as a human pathogen , relatively little is known about the host immune response or virulence mechanisms of long-term systemic infections . Host-adapted Salmonella strains invade and manipulate host cells by releasing specialized bacterial effector proteins into the host cell . We show that one of these bacterial effector proteins , SseI ( SrfH ) , is required for Salmonella to maintain a long-term chronic systemic infection in mice . SseI is able to block the migration of host immune cells and consequentially attenuate the host's ability to clear systemic bacteria . SseI accomplishes this inhibitory activity in part by associating with the host protein IQGAP1 , an important regulator of cell migration . The amino acid sequence of SseI is similar to several other protein sequences of known bacterial pathogens , including PMT/ToxA , a toxin , indicating that these factors may function similarly to one another and may comprise a new family of bacterial effector proteins .
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) is resistant to various antibiotics , including β-lactams , thus causing serious clinical problems . Hospital-associated ( HA ) -MRSA infects immunocompromised patients in hospitals . Community-acquired ( CA ) -MRSA causes serious diseases in healthy people who have not had contact with hospitals in the United States , Canada , or Europe . CA-MRSA produces higher amounts of extracellular toxins and has higher virulence than HA-MRSA , although the reason for this is unclear . SCCmec is a foreign DNA integrated into the MRSA chromosome that contains several genes including the mecA gene that confers resistance against methicillin . The SCCmec of CA-MRSA does not contain the psm-mec gene that exists in the HA-MRSA SCCmec . In the present study , we found that the transcription product of psm-mec inhibits translation of the agrA gene encoding a positive transcription factor for many extracellular toxins by direct binding to the agrA mRNA , resulting in decreased extracellular toxin production . Furthermore , some HA-MRSA strains carry mutated psm-mec or no psm-mec and produce higher amounts of extracellular toxins than HA-MRSA strains carrying intact psm-mec . These findings suggest that psm-mec RNA negatively regulates agrA and mutation or absence of psm-mec leads to a high virulence capacity of MRSA .
Severe dengue has been linked to secondary heterologous infection or to primary infection in 6–9 month old babies born to dengue immune mothers . The leading hypothesis for such observations is the antibody-dependent enhancement ( ADE ) phenomenon in which cross-reactive , but non-neutralizing , heterologous antibodies , or sub-neutralizing levels of homotypic antibodies , enhance uptake of dengue virus into host cells . We report here the development of a dengue ADE mouse model that is mediated by maternal antibodies acquired during gestation and breastfeeding . Dengue infection of mice born to mothers immune to a heterologous dengue serotype resulted in rapid death of the mice , accompanied by increased virus titers , severe liver damage and heighted systemic inflammation . Anti-TNFα therapy fully rescued the animals . This novel mouse model may help further understand dengue pathogenesis and provides a platform for testing the efficacy of vaccine and therapeutic candidates .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is the most severe clinical form of leishmaniasis . In the Americas , VL is a zoonosis caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum , an intracellular micro-organism transmitted to humans through the bite of female phlebotomine sand flies . The domestic dog is considered the main reservoir and human beings are dead-end hosts . The disease occurs in 12 countries of the New World and Brazil accounts for 90% of the reported cases . The factors associated with infection are only partially understood , making harder understanding the disease dynamics and the development of effective and well-targeted control measures . Our work is the first systematic review with meta-analysis about factors associated with human visceral leishmaniasis in the Americas . It provides an organization of the available information , the description of more accurate data on the role of each of the factors studied , the evaluation of possible causes of heterogeneity in the results of the studies as well as the analysis of the quality of publications and limitations in the existing knowledge . The results of this study might be useful in the definition of which and where target interventions should be delivered , and for guiding researchers towards the development of future studies of better methodological quality .
Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) causes an acute fatal pneumonia upon inhalation of the bacteria . Natural infection , usually from contact with infected rabbits , is rare , but a low infectious dose of Ft and easy aerosolization has prompted its use as a biological weapon . During infection Ft appears to evade host defenses by various means , but how disease develops and leads to death of infected individuals remains unknown . Work to date suggests that a failure to control bacteria , delayed cytokines , endotoxic shock , suppression of immunity , or a combination of these is responsible for fatal disease . We have evaluated the sequence of systemic host immune responses and found that an inappropriate response of mostly immature , ineffective , and dying phagocytic cells likely explains the tissue damage and death accompanying Ft pneumonia . Promoting a more appropriate phagocyte response decreases susceptibility to lethal Ft infection and favors survival of the host .
Aedes albopictus , the Asian tiger mosquito is the most invasive species in the world . Over the past 30 years , from its native tropical Southeast Asia it rapidly spread across the world , and it is currently present in several tropical , subtropical and temperate countries due to its high ecological plasticity . Its dramatic global expansion has resulted in public health concerns as a consequence of its vector competence for several arboviruses , such as chikungunya , dengue and Zika , which are the most prevalent pathogens of humans . The identification of the migration routes and , consequently , the demographic origin of mosquito adventive populations is a priority to prevent local outbreaks of viral infection . Using a combined population genetics and Bayesian approach , we found that the worldwide invasion of this mosquito has not occurred through a step-by-step expansion process from the native Southeast Asia . A recent and chaotic human-mediated propagule distribution allowed adventive populations to be established in the Indian Ocean , Mediterranean Basin , and North America regions . We have detected high intra-population variability , which may co-operate with the genetic mechanisms controlling vector competence .
Chronic infections are poorly understood , hard to model , and treatment resistant . Future progress depends upon understanding infection pathogenesis . Our study suggests that many bacterial virulence and biofilm formation functions are not required for fitness of infecting bacteria in chronic wounds . Instead , we found that functions that mitigate stresses associated with high-density bacterial growth are critical for infection . These findings suggest new approaches to model and target chronic bacterial infections .
Chronic hydrocele is the accumulation of fluid around the testis leading to an increase in the volume of the scrotal contents . Depending on the volume of fluid , hydrocele can be disfiguring and even incapacitating . Chronic hydrocele has multiple etiologies , but irrespective of the cause , surgery is the standard form of treatment and this can be done using different surgical techniques . The prevalence of chronic hydrocele in bancroftian filariasis endemic areas—a parasitic disease transmitted by mosquito—is very high and represents the most common clinical manifestation of bancroftosis , following by swollen legs of lower limbs or lymphedema among women . In Greater Recife , northeastern , Brazil , a bancroftian filariasis endemic area , a pioneering , prospective surgical study proposes a new mechanism for filarial-induced hydrocele and presents evidence that the filarial hydrocele fluid may damage the testis . Thus , based on the findings presented , the authors propose that in bancroftian filariasis endemic areas hydrocele patients should be operated on using a specific surgical technique in order to avoid recurrence of the disease , and consequently , additional damage to the testicle .
Trichinella spiralis is a parasitic nematode that infects mammals indiscriminately . Although the biggest impact of trichinellosis is observed in developing countries , the parasite is found on all continents except Antarctica . In humans , Trichinella infection contributes globally to helminth related morbidity and disability adjusted life years . In animals , infection is implicated as a serious agricultural problem and drug treatment is largely ineffective . During chronic infection , larvae invade skeletal muscle cells , forming a nurse cell complex in which they become encysted . The nurse cell is a product of the severe disruption of the host cell homeostasis . Proteins of the Ub/proteasome pathway are highly conserved throughout evolution , and considering their importance in the regulation of cell homeostasis , provide interesting and novel therapeutic targets for various diseases . In order to target this system in parasites , pathogen proteins that play a role in this pathway must be identified . We report the identification of the first T . spiralis deubiquitinating enzyme , and show evidence that the function of this protein as a proteasome interaction partner has been evolutionarily conserved . We show that members of this enzyme family are important for T . spiralis survival and that the use of inhibitor compounds may help elucidate their role in infection .
Chagas disease is still considered a neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) . There are more than 5 million people infected worldwide of which 99% are located in the Americas . Chagas disease has huge social and economic consequences for countries with significant proportions of their populations living in poverty . Chagas disease causes approximately seven thousand deaths per year and half a million people live with disabilities caused by the disease . Based on disability-adjusted life-years ( DALYs ) , the disease burden of Chagas disease is five times greater than malaria and is approximately one-fifth of HIV/AIDS in the Latin American and Caribbean region . Despite being characterized over a century ago by Carlos Chagas who identified Trypanosoma cruzi as the causative agent , treatment of the disease is restricted to just two drugs ( benznidazole and nifurtimox ) that are effective only in the acute phase of the disease . Failure to rapidly diagnose T . cruzi infections and a poor side effect profile that causes many patients to abandon treatment both limit the effectiveness of treatment in the acute phase Chagas disease and many patients ultimately progress to the chronic phase . In this study , we have identified three compounds with anti-trypanosomal effects on the infective T . cruzi CL Brener form prevalent in various regions of the Americas , with potency in the 0 . 1 μM to 1 μM range and minimal cytotoxicity , even at 128 μM . Additionally , two of these compounds are significantly more potent against the parasite than against the recombinant form of the cysteine protease cruzipain which is generally considered to be a valid target for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of Chagas disease . These observations raise questions about the relevance of cruzain inhibition as a predictor of anti-trypanosomal activity and reinforce the case for using phenotypic assays in the search for new antichagasic agents . Correlation between enzyme inhibition and activity in cell-based assays is a general issue in drug discovery and we discuss the importance of intracellular unbound concentration in this context . We believe that this study is of significant interest both on account of the potent anti-trypanosomal activity observed for three of the compounds studied and the weak link between this activity and cruzain inhibition .
As a cash crop and a model biological system , maize is of great public interest . To facilitate maize molecular breeding and its basic biology research , we built a high-resolution physical map with two different fingerprinting methods on the same set of bacterial artificial chromosome clones . The physical map was integrated to a high-density genetic map and further serves as a framework for the maize genome-sequencing project . Comparative genomics showed that the euchromatic regions between rice and maize are very conserved . Physically we delimited these conserved regions and thus detected many genome rearrangements . We defined extensively the duplication blocks within the maize genome . These blocks allowed us to reconstruct the chromosomes of the maize progenitor . We detected that maize genome has experienced two rounds of genome duplications , an ancient one before maize–rice divergence and a recent one after tetraploidization .
Prions are the unprecedented infectious agent associated with prion diseases , which are composed exclusively of a misfolded protein . In this study we report the de novo formation of infectious prion protein in vitro , which when inoculated into wild type animals is able to induce a new disease phenotype with unique clinical , neuropathological and biochemical characteristics . The findings described in this article are very important , because they support the prion hypothesis and provide a simple model for studying the mechanism responsible for the appearance of sporadic prion disease . The data also suggest that the universe of possible prions is not restricted to those currently known , but that likely many new forms of infectious protein foldings may be produced . This is worrisome , because it raises the possibility that novel and perhaps more aggressive infectious prion foldings may spontaneously originate in diverse species , leading to the emergence of new and unpredictable forms of transmissible diseases .
We are interested in how bees are capable of navigating complex environments . Experimental evidence shows that they use an estimate of the speed that patterns move across their compound eyes ( angular velocity ) to control their behaviour and avoid obstacles , however the brain circuitry used to extract this information is not understood . We have created a model that uses a small number of assumptions to demonstrate a plausible set of circuitry . Since bees only extract an estimate of angular velocity they show differences from the expected behaviour for perfect angular velocity detection , and our model reproduces these differences .
The existence of a diversity of infection outcomes – ranging from self-cure to asymptomatic , severe or fatal cases – is now widely recognised for most parasitic and infectious diseases . The dogma concerning sleeping sickness , however , is still that infection is 100% fatal . Here we describe a 15-year follow-up of patients diagnosed with human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) in the Ivory Coast but who refused treatment . Our results , based on clinical , serological , molecular , and parasitological investigations , combining diagnostic tools for the field and highly specific and sensitive laboratory tests , constitute the most comprehensive study on the natural evolution of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense infection in its human host . At least two alternative natural progressions of HAT to the “classic” fatal disease were identified: a progression to an apparently aparasitaemic and asymptomatic infection and a progression to an apparently spontaneous resolution of infection . We believe that recognising that trypanotolerance exists in humans is a major step forward for future research aimed at identifying human-specific defence and immune mechanisms involved in the control of T . b . gambiense infection and thus new candidate therapeutic or prophylactic targets .
Cancer progression can be understood through the framework of Darwinian evolution , which involves two major factors: genetic mutation and selection . Random mutations are thought to result in the initiation and phenotypic diversification of tumors , and environmental influences mediate selection for those mutations that increase tumor cell fitness . Since oncogenic mutations are necessary for the development of spontaneous malignancies and since experimental introduction of these mutations often leads to transformation and cancers , the causation of cancers by carcinogens is traditionally attributed to their induction of new mutations that are oncogenic . We instead asked whether selection for oncogenic mutations is affected by ionizing irradiation , an archetypal mutagenic carcinogen , by examining the selective effects of inactivation of the critical tumor suppressor gene p53 . While disruption of p53 is selectively neutral in populations of unstressed hematopoietic progenitors , it provides a strong selective advantage upon irradiation . This selection of p53-deficient clones is attributable to protection from irradiation-induced cell death and loss of cellular fitness . Importantly , the selective expansion of irradiated cells bearing p53 disruption is blocked in the presence of non-irradiated wild-type competitors , indicating that the disabling of competing wild-type cells by irradiation is critical for selection of p53-deficient cells . Our results argue that induction of cancers by irradiation involves selection for mutations that confer radioresistance , and suggest that greater focus on how carcinogenic contexts impact on selection is warranted in understanding , preventing and treating cancers .
Schistosoma mansoni is one of the main agents of schistosomiasis , which is the most important human helminthic infection in terms of global morbidity and mortality . Although schistosomiasis represents a major public health problem in endemic countries , evidences show that S . mansoni downregulates inflammatory responses in many diseases . Fortunately , the control of inflammatory responses is extended to pathogen-derived antigens , leading us to study one S . mansoni Kunitz type protease inhibitor ( SmKI-1 ) , found in larval and adult phases of the parasite . We demonstrate that SmKI-1 inhibits trypsin and neutrophil elastase ( NE ) . Additionally , live parasites that SmKI-1 gene has been suppressed using siRNA displayed an impaired schistosome development both in vitro and in vivo . Further , we demonstrate that SmKI-1 possesses an anti-inflammatory potential in three different murine models of inflammatory diseases: acetaminophen ( APAP ) -mediated liver damage , gout arthritis , and pleural inflammation in response to carrageenan . In these inflammatory disease models , we evaluated SmKI-1 effect on neutrophil and our results demonstrate this molecule is able to inhibit neutrophil migration and function , regulating inflammation . Thus , our data suggest that SmKI-1 is a promising therapeutic molecule against inflammatory diseases .
Membrane proteins perform crucial cellular functions and can be involved in serious diseases but remain difficult to study experimentally . Hence , high-resolution membrane protein structures are scarce which hinders the design of selective therapeutics and of receptors with novel function for systems/synthetic biology applications . The computational modeling of membrane protein structures represents an important alternative approach but , to achieve high accuracy , usually requires structural information from closely related proteins currently unavailable for most membrane proteins . To address this limitation , we have developed a novel method to predict membrane protein structures from the structures of non-closely related proteins that differ both in loop and transmembrane regions . Using this approach , we show that a large diversity of membrane proteins can be reconstructed at a level of accuracy suitable for computer-based protein engineering applications . Because requiring information from a single distant homolog only , we expect that around 60% of human membrane proteins can reliably be modeled using our approach , thereby allowing precise structure/function studies on a large fraction of structurally uncharacterized membrane proteins .
L . monocytogenes is a model intracellular pathogen that replicates in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells and disseminate in the host using actin-based motility . Here , we reveal that L . monocytogenes changes its lifestyle and persists in lysosomal vacuoles during long-term infection of human hepatocytes and trophoblast cells . When the virulence factor ActA is not expressed , subpopulations of vacuolar bacteria enter a dormant viable but non-culturable ( VBNC ) state . This novel facet of the L . monocytogenes intracellular life could contribute to the asymptomatic carriage of this pathogen in epithelial tissues and render it tolerant to antibiotic therapy and undetectable by routine culture techniques .
Humans have an astonishing ability to separate out different sound sources in a busy room: think of how we can hear individual voices in a bustling coffee shop . Rather than voices , we use sound stimuli in the lab: repeating patterns of high and low tones . The tone sequences are ambiguous and can be interpreted in different ways—either grouped into a single stream , or separated out into different streams . When listening for a long time , one’s perception switches every few seconds , a phenomenon called auditory bistability . Based on knowledge of the organization of brain areas involved in separating out different sound sources and how neurons in these areas respond to the ambiguous sequences , we developed a computational model of auditory bistabilty . Our model is less abstract than existing models and shows how groups of neurons may compete in order to dictate what you perceive . We predict how the difference between the two tone sequences affects what you hear over time and we performed an experiment with human listeners to confirm our prediction . The model provides groundwork to further explore the way the brain deals with the busy and often ambiguous world of sound .
Infection with parasitic helminths is characterised by a marked elevation of total and parasite-specific Immunoglobulin E ( IgE ) . It is widely believed that this IgE response has evolved to protect hosts against large metazoan parasites . Such a protective function has been well characterised in particular against members of the genus Schistosoma . However , with a few notable exceptions , the molecular targets of the IgE response and the downstream immunological mechanisms leading to host protection are not well understood . The molecular targets of a specific IgE response are by definition called allergens . While almost 3 , 000 different allergens , contained in e . g . plant pollen or seeds , moulds or animal materials , have been characterised at the molecular level , and are listed and described in databases such as the Allergome database ( www . allergome . org ) , only a few dozen allergens have been characterised in parasitic helminths . A more detailed understanding of the molecular targets of the anti-helminth IgE response can not only be expected to further our basic understanding of protective immune responses and allergy in general–such knowledge can also be expected to have important repercussions on the production of safe and effective anti-helminthic vaccines . This research describes a novel approach suitable for genome-wide functional identification of allergens in S . mansoni and other parasites , paving the way for the identification of the Schistosoma allergome .
Transposable elements ( TEs ) are selfish elements that copy themselves . More than half of the human genome is comprised of such elements . Studies in the fruit flies Drosophila melanogaster and D . virilis have been important in demonstrating a role for RNA silencing by PIWI-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) in protecting the genome against these harmful elements . These small RNAs are capable of recognizing TE mRNAs and mediating their destruction . They are also transmitted by the female germline to offspring in order to maintain a stable genome across generations . When males carrying a particular TE family are crossed with females lacking the element , the mother is unable to provide genome defense via complementary piRNAs that target the element . This leads to excess TE activation in the germline and sterility , a phenomenon known as hybrid dysgenesis . In this article we characterize the genomic landscape of TE destabilization that occurs in dysgenic crosses of D . virilis . We demonstrate that this mobilization is associated with an increased level of germline TE expression that persists through adulthood . In addition , we find that TE activation is associated with diverse effects on normal gene expression that are also mediated by piRNAs .
FXTAS is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder resulting from accumulation of a toxic CGG repeat–containing mRNA species in the brain . For unknown reasons , expression of this toxic mRNA is markedly increased in patients , and this increase is thought to contribute to pathogenesis . Here we used a fruit fly model of FXTAS and patient-derived cells to investigate the cause of increased toxic RNA production in this disorder . We identified histone deacetylases ( HDACs ) as genetic suppressors of the neurodegenerative phenotype in Drosophila . These HDAC modifiers rescue the phenotype by selectively lowering expression of the toxic mRNA . These findings led us to evaluate the acetylation state of histones at the human FMR1 locus . We found increases in histone acetylation surrounding the CGG repeat in pre-mutation carriers . These changes were associated with increased transcription of FMR1 RNA . Moreover , we were able to reverse these changes and lower production of the toxic mRNA with drugs that inhibit histone acetylation . These same drugs also extended lifespan in FXTAS model flies . Taken together , our studies suggest a novel mechanism by which FMR1 mRNA transcription is increased in FXTAS , and they provide a proof of principle that such changes are dynamic and modifiable by genetic or pharmacologic alterations .
Chronic viral infections pose a serious healthcare concern resulting in substantial mortality worldwide . Chronic viral infections result from the inability of the immune system to eliminate the virus from the infected individual . The immune system’s inability to eradicate the invading pathogen is partially due to excessive regulation of the T cell response . However , host genetics have been associated with enhanced T cell function and viral control during chronic infection . Therefore , we sought to investigate the role of host genetic diversity on the T cell response during chronic viral infection in a murine model . We found that increasing MHC heterogeneity resulted in an increased T cell response and enhanced viral control . In addition , host genetic background differences allowed for induction of a distinct CD4 T cell subset , which was associated with reduced suppression of the CD8 T cell response and enhanced viral control . Thus , specific features of the host genetic background contribute to the size and quality of the T cell response and resulting viral control . This study identifies components of the T cell response that may provide a therapeutic target to enhance T-cell-mediated viral control during chronic infection .
In this study , the general characteristics of human anthrax outbreaks that occurred in northwestern China over the past decade were described . Meanwhile , the genetic characteristics of Bacillus anthracis isolated from these areas from 1990 to 2016 were analyzed with the canSNP and MLVA15 methods . Our results showed a diversity of MLVA genotypes . We also observed gradual balancing of the geographical distribution of B . anthracis population in northwestern China according to the canSNP analysis . In particular , the A . Br . Ames subgroup now seems to be scattered from Inner Mongolia to other provinces , in contrast to the data before 1990 . This study also provides preliminary survey results on the population diversity of B . anthracis in China , which will help to promote the prevention and control of this important disease .
Food and water-borne bacterial pathogens such as enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) target the epithelial cells that line the inner surface of their host’s intestines , causing inflammation and diarrhea . While professional immune cells including T lymphocytes are well known for promoting host defense , we hypothesized that as the cells in closest contact with these bacterial pathogens , intestinal epithelial cells also play an active and essential role in protecting the host during infection . Infecting mice with Citrobacter rodentium , a mouse specific relative of EHEC , we noted a dramatic upregulation in the expression and secretion of the mediator RELM-β by a subset of epithelial cells called goblet cells . Compared to wildtype mice , mice lacking RELM-β showed less epithelial cell proliferation and suffered significantly more intestinal damage during infection . Rather than directly causing epithelial cell proliferation , we found RELM-β instead recruited T lymphocytes to the infected intestine . Upon reaching the intestine , the T lymphocytes produced the cytokine interleukin-22 , which directly increased epithelial cell proliferation . Taken together , these findings indicate that epithelial/goblet cells play a critical role in orchestrating the host response to an intestinal pathogen , by recruiting T lymphocytes and by promoting epithelial proliferation to limit the intestinal damage suffered during infection .
Norovirus infections cause acute gastroenteritis and are a growing worldwide problem in human health . A critical early step in infection is translation of the viral RNA genome to produce the proteins needed to assemble new virus particles . In mouse noroviruses ( MNV ) , which provide a useful model for studying human noroviruses , the VPg protein attached to the viral RNA is essential for this process because it interacts with a cellular protein , eIF4G , that is normally involved in initiating protein synthesis from the messenger RNA of host genes . We have used a variety of biochemical and biophysical experiments to measure how well MNV VPg binds to eIF4G and to identify the parts of both proteins that are involved in this interaction . We show that a sequence of about 20 amino acids at one end of MNV VPg–the C terminus– allows it to bind to a well-defined domain within eIF4G ( called HEAT-1 ) , and that it may adopt a helical structure when doing so . Our data suggest that this interaction is common to all noroviruses , including types that infect humans . We have also shown that the MNV VPg C-terminal peptide can inhibit norovirus protein synthesis , which raises the possibility that the VPg-eIF4G interaction could be targeted in the design of antiviral drugs .
Genes involved in a common pathway or function are frequently found near each other on bacterial chromosomes . A number of hypotheses have been previously presented to explain this observation . A particularly influential theory is the selfish operon model , which posits that horizontal transfer could promote gene clustering by favouring transfer of arrangements of genes that are close together . Subsequent theoretical development and analysis of genomic data have contributed to the debate about the plausibility of this model . Here , by re-examining the evolutionary dynamics of gene clusters , we provide and discuss conditions under which gene clusters can evolve . We find that first , some form of bias for clustering is required for clusters to evolve . This bias can be in the form of bias in horizontal transfer towards genes that are close together , or direct natural selection for gene proximity . Our computational work does not present a theoretical obstacle to the selfish operon model as a possible explanation for the evolution of gene clusters .
Infection by the protozoan parasite Plasmodium falciparum results in the most severe form of human malaria and is responsible for significant morbidity and mortality in the developing world . This disease can be particularly severe in pregnant women due to the specific adhesion of parasite-infected red blood cells within the placenta . Expression of a single gene called var2csa has been linked to targeting of the placenta , and thus this gene represents a key element in the virulence of P . falciparum infections . It was previously shown that var2csa is predominantly expressed by parasites in pregnant women , suggesting that parasites might have the ability to down regulate this gene when no placenta is available . Here we describe an upstream open reading frame ( uORF ) –mediated mechanism used by parasites to repress translation of var2csa mRNA , thus providing a mechanism for controlling gene expression at the level of protein translation . This mechanism has not previously been observed in malaria parasites , and may represent a form of regulation used to control expression of other genes within the genome .
Dengue is a widespread viral disease for which over 3 billion people are at risk . There are no drug treatments or vaccines available for this disease . It is also difficult for physicians to predict which patients are at highest risk for the severe manifestations known as dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) and dengue shock syndrome ( DSS ) . We used genome-wide transcriptional profiling analysis to study peripheral blood responses to dengue among patients from Nicaragua . We found that patients with severe manifestations involving shock had very different transcriptional profiles from dengue patients with mild and moderate illness . We then compared our results with other microarray experiments on dengue patients available from public databases and confirmed that dengue is often associated with large changes to the metabolic processes within cells . This approach could identify prognostic markers for severe dengue as well as provide a better understanding of the pathophysiology associated with different grades of disease severity .
Herpesviruses are supremely successful mammalian parasites . Yet their infections rarely present until well established , so how new hosts are first infected has been unclear . Understanding this is likely to be crucial for infection control . Using Murid Herpesvirus-4 , a relative of the Kaposi's Sarcoma-associated Herpesvirus , we identified the olfactory neuroepithelium as a major portal of host entry . Heparan sulfate ( HS ) binding , which is common to many herpesviruses , played a key role . The HS of most epithelia is solely basolateral and therefore inaccessible to incoming , apical virions . The neuroepithelium , by contrast , also displayed HS on its apical surface . This comprises a dense meshwork of the neuronal cilia that mediate olfaction . Incoming virions bound to the cilia , as did a recombinant form of the virion glycoprotein H/L heterodimer . Some virions tracked down the cilia to infect neurons . Others were transferred to the microvilli of adjacent sustentacular cells . The central role of HS in this first detailed description of host entry by a mammalian herpesvirus , and the paucity of accessible HS on other epithelia , suggested that many HS-binding herpesviruses could follow a similar path .
Salmonella infection is one of the major causes of foodborne illness worldwide . During infection , Salmonella expresses a set of virulence genes encoded in discrete regions of the genome . The expression of these genes is tightly regulated , being specific for different stages of the Salmonella infection process . While many regulatory mechanisms that lead to the activation of infection-related gene expression have been described , little is known about silencing mechanisms under conditions when expression is not needed and may rather represent a burden than a benefit for the bacterial fitness . Here , we report a condition-specific silencing mechanism of bacterial virulence . That is , the global transcriptional regulator CRP-cAMP represses , indirectly through a post-transcriptional mechanism , the expression of the major Salmonella virulence regulator HilD . In bacteria , post-transcriptional regulation has so far been mainly focused on 5’ untranslated regions ( 5’UTR ) . Remarkably , here we describe a molecular mechanism targeting the 3’untranslated region ( 3’UTR ) of the mRNA of the major regulator of Salmonella virulence by a small non-coding RNA under the transcriptional control of the global regulator CRP-cAMP . Our data highlight the importance of 3’UTR in the regulation of gene expression in bacteria .
Several dominant genetic diseases , including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 , are caused by the expansion of CAG/CTG repeats . These repeats are unstable in selective tissues . Repeat instability , resulting in the production of increasingly toxic mutant entities in the affected tissues , is proposed to accelerate disease progression . It is therefore essential to unravel the mechanisms contributing to tissue-selective somatic instability . In vitro and cell-based studies indicate that transcription is involved in CAG/CTG instability . However , the role of transcription in CAG/CTG instability in vivo has remained controversial , since mRNA tissue levels of CAG/CTG repeat-containing genes do not correlate with the tissue-specific pattern of instability . Moreover , it is unclear whether the transcriptional process would contribute per se to CAG/CTG instability or whether it is the increased chromatin accessibility associated with transcription that would promote instability . We addressed these issues using two HD transgenic mouse lines recapitulating HD tissue-specific instability . Our in vivo data indicate that high chromatin accessibility and transgene expression do not underlie tissue-selective CAG instability in HD , but suggest that the dynamics of transcription elongation is one mechanism contributing to this process .
Human enterovirus-71 ( EV71 ) has been the cause of major hand-foot-and-mouth disease outbreaks , particularly in the Asia-Pacific region . EV71 infection can also disseminate to the central nervous system and result in meningo-encephalitis . Despite intensive epidemiological screening , as well as experimentation in animal models , viral factors contributing to neurotropism remain ill-defined . We describe here the analysis of the full-length genomes of EV71 from different infection sites in an immunocompromised host with disseminated disease . Our data highlight a critical amino acid change within the EV71 VP1 protein that could potentially lead to dissemination and neurotropism during natural infections . This hypothesis was confirmed in vitro through reverse genetic experiments in different EV71 lineages and by in silico modelling . To our knowledge , this study provides the first genome-wide analysis of EV71 evolution and dissemination within a single human host over the course of an infection , and highlights how the emergence of mutations at critical regions of the viral genome can potentially lead to new phenotypes and neurovirulence .
Bacteria transmit chemical signals to each other in a process known as quorum sensing . This adaptation is central to pathogenesis as it allows bacteria to coordinate a group response , such as when to form a biofilm , secrete virulence factors , or uptake new DNA . Quorum sensing in many species of Gram-positive bacteria utilizes secreted short peptide signals that are sensed by protein receptors that alter gene expression . The ComR-ComS receptor-signal pair is a regulator of competence for genetic transformation that is broadly conserved in a majority of Streptococcus species , including those pathogenic in humans and animals . Despite this conservation , we observe sequence diversity among ComRS orthologs that raises questions relating to sensory specificity and the molecular mechanism of peptide recognition . To address this , we directly tested the possibility for signaling cross-talk and identified three general categories of ComR receptors displaying strict , intermediate , and promiscuous responses to heterologous peptides . To elucidate the molecular mechanism of receptor specificity we determined an X-ray crystal structure of ComR from S . suis . We observe a conserved face of the ligand pocket important for peptide binding and a variable face that functions in peptide specificity . Finally , basic criteria necessary for peptide responses were used to redesign active peptides from inactive templates .
Centromeres form at the same chromosomal position from generation to generation , yet in most species this inheritance occurs in a DNA sequence–independent manner that is not well understood . Here , we determine the timing of DNA replication across the genome of the human fungal pathogen Candida albicans and find that centromeric DNA is the first locus to replicate on each chromosome . Furthemore , this unique replication timing may be important for centromere inheritance , based on several observations . First , DNA sequence patterns at centromeres indicate that , despite high levels of primary sequence divergence , the region has served as a replication origin for millions of years; second , formation of a neocentromere ( a new centromere formed at an ectopic locus following deletion of the native centromere DNA ) results in the establishment of a new , early-firing origin of replication; and third , a centromere-specific protein , Cse4p , recruits origin replication complex proteins in a concentration-dependent manner . Thus , centromere position is inherited by an epigenetic mechanism that appears to be defined by a distinctively early firing DNA replication origin .
Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide and one of the most common reasons for health care visits in developed countries , yet surprisingly little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom . Chronic back pain is the major driver of the societal burden of back pain . Identifying biological pathways involved in chronic back pain through genetic association studies might reveal insights into the underlying mechanisms involved or suggest potential avenues for the development of new treatments . We conducted the first genome-wide association study meta-analysis to examine genetic variants associated with chronic back pain . We identified variants associated with chronic back pain in 158 , 025 individuals of European ancestry from 16 cohorts in Europe and North America , and replicated our findings in 283 , 752 UK Biobank participants of European ancestry not included in the discovery sample . Our study identifies three novel genome-wide significant associations with chronic back pain , and suggests possible shared genetic mechanisms with other traits such as cartilage , osteoarthritis , lumbar disc degeneration , depression , and height/vertebral development .
Taenia solium cysticercosis is a zoonotic disease occurring in many developing countries . A relatively high prevalence in humans and pigs has been reported in several parts of the world , but insufficient data are available on the disease burden . Disease impact assessment needs detailed information on well-defined epidemiological and economic parameters . Our work conducted in West Cameroon over several years allowed us to collect the necessary information to estimate the impact of the parasite on the human and animal populations in this area using both cost and Disability Adjusted Life Year ( DALY ) estimations . This study identified the professional inactivity caused by the disease as the major loss factor in comparison to the cost of health care and losses due to infected pigs . These findings should allow a simpler estimation of the global disease burden based on information on salary levels and human cysticercosis prevalence in endemic areas of the world . In addition , the number of DALYs lost was higher than estimates already available for some other neglected tropical diseases in sub-Saharan Africa .
Staphylococcus aureus is a commensal and an opportunistic pathogen that causes a large range of community and hospital-acquired infections . The bacteria produce an array of virulence factors , the expression of which is regulated by a set of regulators including proteins and RNAs . In recent years , a large number of small non-coding RNAs encoded by the S . aureus genome have been identified but determination of their function is still lagging behind . This study shows that RsaA , a staphylococcal conserved non-coding RNA , operates at the post-transcriptional level by repressing the translation of the master regulatory protein MgrA . The repression is based on a direct interaction of RsaA with the ribosome binding site of mgrA mRNA . Through MgrA regulation , RsaA activates biofilm formation and inhibits capsule synthesis . Using appropriate animal models , we showed that RsaA acts as a suppressor of virulence because the deletion of its gene increases the invasiveness of S . aureus in the mice sepsis model . RsaA is thus part of complex regulatory network that modify the interactions of S . aureus with the eukaryotic immune system . These findings illustrate how small RNAs can have a major impact in bacterial biology .
HIV-1 genome and key enzymes required for establishing productive infection are encased in a cone-shaped shell made of the capsid protein ( CA ) . After being released into the cytosol of target cells , the cone-shaped core complex undergoes a series of carefully orchestrated steps , including uncoating ( loss of CA ) . HIV-1 uncoating remains poorly understood , due in part to the lack of direct assays enabling studies of this process in living cells . Here , we introduce a novel strategy for labeling the HIV-1 capsid without genetically modifying the CA protein . We designed a novel fluorescent cyclophilin A construct that binds the capsid with an extremely high avidity and ( 1 ) efficiently incorporates into virions without compromising infectivity; ( 2 ) remains bound to cores after viral fusion; and ( 3 ) is lost from post-fusion cores along with CA . The novel imaging assay provides new insights into the kinetics and spatial distribution of HIV-1 uncoating in living cells .
There are potentially many factors responsible for how archaeal and bacterial genomes are composed . Recent advances in DNA sequencing have made it possible to use computational and statistical methods to examine the interplay between evolution and genomic composition . We wished to see whether particular properties could be extracted that would provide clues on how prokaryotic DNA is composed . For instance , we wondered whether or not protein coding regions carried a greater information potential than non-coding regions , if there is a link between genome size and GC content , whether GC content is different in coding and non-coding regions , and possible associations between DNA composition and environment . Our results indicated that genomic nucleotide frequencies are a determinant of many DNA compositional properties , but also that other influences are at work . For instance , bacteria are known to frequently exchange DNA with the environment and other organisms . Acquired DNA can therefore have different compositional properties than host DNA , and since pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance in bacteria is often associated with foreign DNA , advancing the knowledge of DNA composition is of great importance .
Meiosis is an essential feature of sexual reproduction that maintains chromosome number over generations . This specialised form of cell division creates gametes containing a single copy of each chromosome so that each parent contributes half their genetic information to an offspring . Accurate partitioning first requires intimate association of the two parental copies of each chromosome and concomitant exchange between them . These exchanges consist of both large-scale reciprocal crossovers , essential for correct chromosome segregation , and very localised gene conversion events , or noncrossovers , thought to be involved in correct chromosome pairing . Ordinarily , the reshuffling of genetic variants between generations by recombination will not alter their population frequency only their haplotypic context , with a parent passing on a given variant to 50% of its gametes according to Mendel's law of inheritance . However , by screening for both types of recombinant amongst the sperm DNA of healthy men , we have identified a novel form of biased transmission that is restricted to noncrossovers and favours eventual fixation of one variant over another in the population . This previously undetected source of meiotic drive will not alter recombination propensity but is likely to be a common and potent force acting on the human genome .
Exposure to environmental chemicals and drugs may have a negative effect on human health . An essential step towards understanding the effect of chemicals on human health is to identify all possible molecular targets of a given chemical . Recently , various network-oriented chemical pharmacology approaches have been published . However , these methods limit the protein prediction to already known molecular drug targets . New findings can for example be made by using high-confidence protein-protein association databases . Here , we describe a generic , computational systems biology model with the aim of understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms of chemicals and the biological pathways they perturb . We present a novel and complementary approach to existing models by integrating toxicogenomics data , chemical structures , protein-protein interaction data , disease information and functional annotation of proteins . The high confidence protein-protein association network proposed reveals unexpected connections between chemicals and diseases or human proteins . We provide literature support to demonstrate the validity of some predictions , and thereby illustrate the power of an approach that integrates toxicogenomics data with other data types .
Linear filter descriptions of sensory neurons have been with us since the 1970s , and have been enormously influential . But such models , and more recent nonlinear variants , are rather like modeling the entire network as a single neuron , failing to account for the neuron's response being a consequence of a network of many nonlinear units . Here we show how these limitations can be overcome by using recent advances in machine learning to fit “network receptive field models” to neural responses to natural sounds . Feedforward networks of 1–7 nonlinearly-interacting lower-order model neurons are required to model a cortical receptive field . Each lower order neuron is tuned to somewhat different stimulus features , arranged together in complex but interpretable structures , which cover a far wider range of sound frequencies and delays than current receptive field models indicate . The NRF models capture important nonlinear functional characteristics in auditory cortical neurons , including multiplicative gain control and conjunctive feature selectivity , where neurons respond when certain features are present together but not in isolation . This enables NRFs to predict the responses of auditory cortical neurons with considerably greater accuracy than conventional models .
The circadian system imposes daily rhythms on behavior , physiology , and metabolism and allows organisms to anticipate daily recurring changes in the environment . Circadian clocks are composed of clock genes , acting in transcription–translation feedback loops . At the heart of this molecular oscillator are the BMAL1–CLOCK transcription factors that drive expression of Cryptochrome ( Cry ) and Period genes , which in turn encode inhibitors of BMAL1–CLOCK–driven transcription . Phosphorylation and other posttranslational modifications also specify the activity and stability of clock proteins . Here , we unveiled the key mechanism underlying the rhythmic phosphorylation of BMAL1 at Ser90 by Casein Kinase-2 alpha ( CK2α ) . Performing live monitoring of protein–protein interactions , we show that CRY proteins facilitate cyclic BMAL1–CK2β binding and subsequent cyclic inactivation of CK2α-mediated BMAL1-S90 phosphorylation; lack of this cyclic event abolishes circadian rhythmicity . We propose a dual negative-feedback model in which CRY proteins not only act as inhibitors of BMAL1–CLOCK transcription but also of BMAL1-S90 phosphorylation .
This study describes mechanisms employed by the bacterium Salmonella enterica to survive bile: adaptation , mutation , and non-mutational preadaptation . Adaptation is easily observed in the laboratory: when a Salmonella culture is grown in the presence of a sublethal concentration of the bile salt sodium deoxycholate ( DOC ) , the minimal inhibitory concentration of DOC increases . Adaptation appears to be associated to multiple changes in gene expression induced by DOC . Mutational bile resistance is also a common phenomenon: plating on agar containing a lethal concentration of bile yields bile-resistant colonies . Fluctuation analysis indicates that such colonies derive from bile-resistant cells present in the previous culture . However , selection on lethal concentrations of bile also provides bile-resistant isolates that are not mutants . Non-mutational preadaptation , a non-canonical phenomenon a priori , suggests that batch cultures contain rare Salmonella cells whose physiological state permits survival upon encountering bile . The view that non-mutational preadaptation may be a consequence of phenotypic heterogeneity is supported by the observation that Salmonella cultures contain cells that activate stress response genes in the absence of DOC .
A majority of sequenced bacterial genomes harbor prophage sequences . Some prophages are viable , while others have decayed from accumulating mutations and genome rearrangements . Prophages , including defective ones , can contribute important biological properties such as antibiotic resistance , toxins , and serum resistance that increase the survival and ecological range of their hosts . We show in this study that the 37 kbp transposable prophage Mu exists in a unique configuration we call the ‘Mu domain’ , where its two ends are paired , segregating the Mu sequences from those of the host chromosome . This is the largest stable chromosomal domain in E . coli mapped to date . The Mu domain configuration promotes low-level transcription from an early prophage promoter , which controls the expression of several genes , not all essential for phage growth . Some non-essential genes include DNA repair functions . We suggest that the Mu domain provides long-term survival benefits to both the prophage and the host: to the prophage in bestowing transposition-ready topological properties unique to the Mu reaction , and to the host in contributing extraneous DNA housekeeping functions .
Plasmodium vivax ( Pv ) mainly affects Asia , Central and South America as well as Ethiopia . In Papua New Guinea ( PNG ) Pv prevalence is among the highest worldwide . The biggest challenge for the control of Pv infections is the formation of dormant liver stages , which have the ability to relapse and cause disease even after successful clearance of asexual stages in the blood circulation . Primaquine is the only licensed drug that is able to prevent Pv relapses . A randomized treatment-to-reinfection cohort in Papua New Guinean children permitted permitted the study of Pv and P . falciparum gametocyte carriage after radical cure with Primaquine and to investigate the contribution of Pv relapses to transmission . We found that most gametocyte carriers in this study were detected in asymptomatic infections and that relapses and new infections are associated with similar Pv gametocyte production . These are strong arguments emphasizing the importance of sensitive detection and early treatment of asymptomatic and submicroscopic Plasmodium spp . infections and of anti-hypnozoite treatment for an effective control of Pv .
Among the functions of the small GTPases Rac , RhoA and Cdc42 are the regulation of protein traffic , insulin secretion , cell shape , survival and motility . The last two are important steps for tumor growth and metastasis . The function of these proteins relies on their expression levels , proper membrane localization and activation . In addition , all three proteins compete for the same protein ‘GDI’ , which modulates their cycling . These proteins are ubiquitous in mammalian cells , but also studied in simpler in vitro systems and cultured yeast . Here we show , using a series of computational analyses , that for each of these experimental systems the dominant pathway for membrane cycling of GTPases seems to differ . This means that the researcher interested in the physiological function of any of those proteins must make sure that the experimental system is appropriate . We present a methodology to identify the dominant pathways by measuring the apparent membrane dissociation rate of the protein as a function of GDI concentration . We provide charts generated from parametric scans . This analysis is then applied to the Rac-dependent insulin secretion pathway in pancreatic ß-cells , revealing that direct signaling between Rac and the membrane is an essential mechanism that emerges from the data .
Schistosomiasis remains an endemic parasitic disease affecting millions of people around the world . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has set goals of morbidity control and elimination as a public health problem for schistosomiasis defined by reaching ≤5% and ≤1% prevalence of heavy-intensity infections in school-aged children , respectively . Monitoring and evaluation ( M&E ) programmes are used to collect data which can inform treatment strategies required in a defined area and can also aid in assessing the progress of implemented treatment strategies . Due to programmatic and financial constraints , M&E data are typically collected from school-aged children as they are thought to be most likely to be infected . We highlight that adults should be included within M&E programmes by showing how the burden of infection in adults impacts our mathematical model recommendations of the treatment coverage levels required to reach the WHO goals for schistosomiasis . Our results highlight the importance of collecting data from a broader age-range , specifically the inclusion of adult data at baseline ( prior to treatment ) and throughout the treatment programme if possible . Improving M&E programmes to incorporate collection of such data will allow for more accurate determination of the optimal treatment strategy for a defined region .
Temporal lobe epilepsy ( TLE ) is a disorder characterised by unpredictable seizures , where surgical removal of brain tissue is often the final treatment option . In roughly 30% of cases surgery procedures are unsuccessful at preventing future seizures . This paper shows the application of a computational model which uses patient derived brain connectivity to predict the success rates of surgery in people with TLE . We consider the brains of 22 patients as networks , with brain regions as nodes and the white matter connections between them as edges . The brain network is unique to each subject and produced from brain imaging scans of 22 patients and 39 controls . Seizures are simulated before and after surgery , where surgery in the model is the removal of nodes from the network . The model successfully identifies regions known to be involved in TLE , and its predicted success rates for surgery are close to the results found in reality . The model additionally provides patient specific recommendations for surgical procedures , which in simulations show improved results compared to standard surgery in every case . This is a first step towards designing personalised surgery procedures in order to improve surgery success rates .
Human herpesvirus 8 ( HHV-8 ) is a pathogen associated with cancers Kaposi's sarcoma ( KS ) , an endothelial cell disease , and B cell malignancies primary effusion lymphoma and multicentric Castleman's disease . KS is particularly prevalent amongst HIV-positive populations in Africa and is a major health concern . Virus productive replication , in addition to latency , is important for maintaining viral load within the host and also for KS pathogenesis . Essential to HHV-8 and other virus replication is the control of innate host defenses , which comprise stress-sensing cellular signaling pathways that result ultimately in programmed cell death ( apoptosis ) . Here we identify a novel mechanism whereby a viral protein , viral interferon regulatory factor-1 ( vIRF-1 ) , mediates inhibition of a stress sensor and initiator of apoptosis , Bim , by inducing its translocation to the cell nucleus and thereby sequestration away from the cytoplasmic compartment where it exerts its pro-death activity . We show that vIRF-1:Bim interaction is necessary for efficient HHV-8 productive replication and that it can be blocked using a cell-permeable antagonist of vIRF-1:Bim binding . Our data not only identify previously unsuspected mechanisms of Bim inactivation and vIRF-1 function , but suggest that inhibitory targeting of vIRF-1 interaction with Bim may be of therapeutic benefit .
The lung undergoes daily assault by microbes and other inhaled particulates and must maintain the balance between clearance of harmful microorganisms while protecting the delicate lung structure to avoid acute lung injury . Not surprisingly , this is a complex process requiring communication between the lung epithelial cells ( first site of attack by invaders ) and the cells of the intrinsic immune response . We demonstrate the αVβ6 integrin is an important player in this interface . Loss of αVβ6 during influenza infection , and other respiratory infections , leads to bolstered protection against severe lung disease and improved survival in mice . Even in the absence of infection , β6 KO animals have a distinct anti-microbial lung microenvironment as evidenced by increased type I IFN activity and activated alveolar macrophages that appear “poised to defend” . These studies explore how the epithelial-specific αVβ6 integrin regulates the lung microenvironment to alter alveolar macrophage activity through a TGF-β-dependent mechanism , leading to changes in both the homeostatic lung and responses to respiratory infections as a way of balancing microbial clearance with protection of the lung from excessive damage .
American Cutaneous Leishmaniasis ( ACL ) is a vector borne Neglected Tropical Disease with skin ulcers as the main clinical manifestation . Diagnosis is suspected when characteristic lesions occur in patients in areas known to be endemic and confirmed with microscopic identification of amastigotes in samples obtained from lesions . The Leishmanin Skin Test ( LST ) is an aid in the diagnosis based on the elicitation of delayed type hypersensitivity responses upon exposure to Leishmania antigens injected intradermally into the patient´s forearm and measured as the induration size after 48 hours . This analysis of 733 cases , which is the largest series of cases evaluating the role of LST in ACL highlights and establishes the usefulness of this complementary diagnostic tool with a strong correlation with lesion smear and a demonstration that false positive responses due to previous exposure to the parasite are not of concern . The results support the use of LST in endemic areas to assist in guiding clinical decisions regarding treatment initiation .
Coronary artery disease is a complex disease where over 40 genomic loci contributing to genetic risk have been identified . However , identifying the precise variants , genomic elements and genes that mediate this risk at each locus has proved challenging . We hypothesized that some genetic risk variants may influence a key step in development of coronary artery disease , which occurs when macrophages encounter environmentally-derived lipid . These cells take up lipid and accumulate in atherosclerotic plaques in the walls of blood vessels where they contribute to the inflammatory atherosclerotic disease process . Therefore , we studied the effects of this lipid exposure on the genomic activity of these cells . Environmental lipid exposure triggered changes in transcriptional regulation and gene expression . Variants at coronary artery disease risk loci were enriched for genomic regions altered by lipid exposure . We studied one such risk variant rs72664324 in detail and found that it altered binding of the C/EBP-beta transcription factor and altered expression of the PPAP2B gene . PPAP2B encodes an enzyme that degrades pro-inflammatory substances . Our study demonstrates a hitherto unknown genetic mechanism underlying atherosclerotic heart disease and demonstrates the value of studying changes in transcriptional regulation in key disease processes involving environmental influences .
Until now , in trachoma elimination programmes , the WHO recommendation for district-wide annual rounds of antibiotic mass drug administration was only applicable to districts with a trachomatous inflammation—follicular ( TF1-9 ) prevalence of 10% or more . Districts with a TF1-9 prevalence of <5% were considered not to require intervention with antibiotics for trachoma . For districts with a prevalence of 5 . 0–9 . 9% , programmes were encouraged to determine the TF1-9 prevalence at sub-district or “community” level . With the recent rapid scale-up in trachoma mapping , there are now a large number of districts known to have TF1-9 prevalence of 5 . 0–9 . 9% , so this recommendation is likely to pose an implementation challenge to health ministries and their partners . In this study , we have demonstrated that in districts with TF1-9 5 . 0–9 . 9% , a single round of mass drug administration with high coverage to the whole district can be followed by an impact survey TF1-9 prevalences of <5% . This approach is likely to reduce the commodity need ( one round of MDA to 100% of the population compared to 3 or more rounds to an average 50% of the population ) , reduce the number of surveys required , and ultimately accelerate the speed of progress to elimination . We recommend that this finding be further explored elsewhere to determine its generalizability , in order to justify consideration of global policy change .
Distinguishing self from non-self is the fundamental principle of immunity . Nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat ( NLR ) proteins were first identified in plants as disease resistance proteins and were recently found to play essential roles in mammalian innate immunity and inflammation . NLR protein complexes sense intracellular pathogenic effectors in plants and microbial patterns and danger signals in humans , but the signaling mechanisms upon NLR activation remain elusive . Using the Arabidopsis-Pseudomonas interaction as a model system , we discovered the molecular link between NLR immune sensors and the convergent immune responses triggered by distinct pathogen effectors . Integrated functional genomic and biochemical genetic screens identified six closely related Ca2+-dependent protein kinases ( CPKs ) that orchestrate bifurcate NLR immune signaling via distinct substrate specificity and subcellular dynamics . The CPK1/2 regulate the onset of programmed cell death; CPK4/5/6/11 phosphorylate specific WRKY transcription factors to regulate immune gene expression crucial for NLR-dependent restriction of pathogen growth , whereas CPK1/2/4/11 phosphorylate NADPH oxidases for the production of reactive oxygen species . Our studies decode the complex signaling mechanisms via the myriad action of CPKs downstream of NLR immune sensors .
Adequate forecasting and early warning systems are based upon observations of human behavior , population , disease time-series , climate , environment , and/or a combination thereof , whichever option best compromises among realism , feasibility , robustness , and parsimony . Fully automatic and user-friendly state–space forecasting frameworks , incorporating myriad options ( e . g . , expert opinion , univariate , multivariate , and spatial-temporal ) , could considerably enhance disease control and hazard mitigation efforts in regions where vulnerability to neglected tropical diseases is pervasive and statistical expertise is scarce . The operational simplicity , generality , and flexibility of state–space frameworks , encapsulating multiple methods , could conveniently allow for 1 ) unsupervised model selection without disease-specific methodological tailoring , 2 ) on-line adaptation to disease time-series fluctuations , and 3 ) automatic switches between distinct forecasting methods as new time-series perturbations dictate . In this investigation , a univariate state–space framework with the aforementioned properties was successfully applied to the Schistosoma haematobium time-series for the district of Niono , Mali , to automatically generate contemporaneous on-line forecasts and hence , providing a basis for local re-organization and strengthening public health programs in this and potentially other Sahelian districts .
Efficient virus replication depends on continuous , uninterrupted supply with metabolites and replication factors from the host cell . This is difficult to achieve in actively dividing cells , especially for a slowly replicating virus like HCMV , a widespread pathogen of major medical importance in immunocompromised patients . To ensure that viral replication is not disturbed by cell division , HCMV has developed a twofold strategy of cyclin A targeting and avoidance . First , HCMV employs the viral cyclin A substrate pp150 to synchronize the onset of replication with G1 , a cell cycle phase of low cyclin A expression . Then , HCMV expresses the cyclin A destabilizing factor pUL21a to maintain the G1 cell cycle state until the successful release of virus progeny . While this strategy is based on two viral proteins , a cyclin A sensor and effector , it relies on one and the same type of cyclin A interaction motif , making HCMV vulnerable to binding site disruption .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , also known as Charcot disease or Lou Gehrig's disease , is one of the most common neuromuscular diseases worldwide . This disease is characterized by a progressive degeneration of motor neurons , leading to patient death within a few years after onset . Despite the fact that most ALS cases are sporadic , most of the ALS genetic studies have focused on familial forms , leading to the genetic determination of cause for 70% of cases of familial ALS but for only 10% of sporadic ALS cases . This , coupled with the dearth of families available for study , suggests that researchers should begin tapping into the relatively untouched reservoir of available sporadic samples to identify novel genetic causes of sporadic ALS . Here we take advantage of high-throughput target sequencing techniques to test four different hypotheses about the genetic causes of ALS in sporadic ALS and uncover new candidate genes and pathways implicated in ALS .
Influenza virus poses a serious global health threat , particularly in light of newly emerging strains such as the avian virus H5N1 . The generation of cell-mediated vaccines against influenza virus requires an understanding of mechanisms underlying effective virus-specific T cell memory . This study explored the impact of a cytokine , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , on generation of effective influenza-specific T cell memory . This cytokine was considered important based on previous studies revealing its role in promoting survival and activity of conventional T cells whilst inhibiting the activity of T cells involved in dampening down immunity ( regulatory T cells ) . We found that the activity of a subset of influenza-specific memory T cells ( CD4+ T cells ) was diminished in the absence of IL-6 due to the inhibitory effects of regulatory T cells—an effect that compromised protective anti-viral immunity . Since a robust CD4+ T cell response is likely to be central to the success of a vaccine against influenza virus , these findings highlight the importance of IL-6 in promoting effective cell-mediated immune responses , thereby facilitating successful virus clearance .
Epigenetics refers to heritable changes in gene function that occur without alterations in the DNA sequence . The best characterized epigenetic modification is DNA methylation . In mammals , DNA methylation is associated with gene silencing and transposon control . We have previously established the presence of methyl cytosine in the genome of Entamoeba histolytica , an important unicellular human pathogen . Ehmeth , an enzyme that belongs to the DNA methyltransferase 2 ( Dnmt2 ) family , catalyzes DNA methylation in the parasite . Recent evidence in support of the notion that human Dnmt2 is a tRNAAsp methyltransferase fuels the debate about the real function of the Dnmt2 family . Our results show that Ehmeth also catalyzes tRNAAsp methylation and indicates a dual function for this protein . In this study , we have also identified that enolase , a glycolytic enzyme , interacts with Ehmeth , and modulates its activity under conditions of glucose starvation . These data add to the emerging evidence that glycolytic enzymes have multifunctional roles , and emphasize the importance of energetic metabolism in the control of the epigenetic enzymatic machinery .
Mosquito saliva contains a complex repertoire of bioactive factors that are secreted into blood feeding site , the skin . Infected mosquitoes transmit pathogens to the host during feeding via saliva . The bioactive factors in mosquito saliva are responsible for modulating host hemostasis , immune defenses and pain/itch responses , and have been implicated to enhance pathogen infection and establishment in the host . In our efforts to identify and characterize salivary immunomodulators that enhance Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) transmission , we have discovered , for the first time , exogenous microRNA in mosquito saliva . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are short , 18–24 nucleotide , non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression . Short non-coding RNAs were extracted from the saliva of Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) infected and uninfected Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus saliva , and subjected to Illumina next generation sequencing . Bioinformatic analysis revealed the presence of miRNAs in the mosquito saliva . We have also identified several novel miRNAs that are expressed only during CHIKV infection . Though the functional roles of these miRNAs are yet to be established , our in-vitro data from testing 5 miRNAs demonstrate their role in the regulation of CHIKV infection . These miRNAs may play an important role in regulating the establishment of CHIKV infection in the mammalian host during blood feeding .
Mitochondria are the powerhouse of the cell , providing energy in the form of ATP . Several proteins required for the production of ATP are encoded in the mitochondrial genome , which is maintained independently from the nuclear genome . Mutations in mitochondrial DNA are responsible for several inherited diseases and are associated with certain cancers , neurological disorders , and aging . In human mtDNA , 90% of deletions , a specific type of mutation , are flanked by repetitive sequences . Deletions in this context are generally produced through homologous recombination , specifically single-strand annealing . For the first time , in this study we show that the proteins involved in nuclear homologous recombination , Rad51p , Rad52p , and Rad59p , also contribute to the formation of mitochondrial deletions . Our data also suggest a novel mitochondrial-specific role for Rad51p in the generation of this type of deletion . Further study of these repair pathways allows us to garner a better understanding of these processes that are involved in disease pathologies and aging .
Rates of rheumatic heart disease ( RHD ) are high in disadvantaged populations globally . It results from acute rheumatic fever ( ARF ) , a complication of Group A Streptococcal ( GAS ) infection . These are described as diseases of poverty , but exactly what components of poverty promote them has been unclear . The aim of this review was to find what specific social and environmental factors are associated with GAS infection , ARF and RHD , and if actions targeting these can reduce disease rates . We did a search of published literature and found 90 relevant articles . Many supported an association between GAS infection , ARF or RHD and crowding , dwelling characteristics , low education level and employment status , poor nutrition and low social class . There was enough evidence to show that crowding and socioeconomic disadvantage increase the risk of GAS infection and ARF/RHD . However , most studies were of fair to poor quality in their ability to answer the research question , and there was little interventional research . This may relate to challenges inherent in intervening to change social determinants of health , but may also suggest lesser research attention to health issues affecting disadvantaged populations . The association between crowding and disease risk strongly supports initiatives to reduce crowding . This should become a key target for ARF and RHD prevention .
A mutation can cause significant changes to a protein's function . Since proteins often act together in genetic circuits to control various cellular processes , mutant proteins can lead to unexpected consequences for system-level behavior . In this study , we describe a remarkable example of this phenomenon in a mutant of a well-studied bacterial circuit . PhoQ and PhoP are the primary regulatory proteins in a circuit that responds to low magnesium . The wild-type ( unmutated ) network responds to environmental signals in an analog or graded manner . In contrast , the mutant responds to signals in an OFF-or-ON or digital fashion . Moreover , the distribution of OFF and ON cells is strongly influenced by how cells were cultured in the past . These remarkable changes can be traced to features of the wiring diagram of the PhoQ/PhoP circuit . Since these features are shared among a broad class of bacterial signaling circuits , we suggest that other circuits may show similar remarkable properties when mutated .
The free-living amoeba , Naegleria fowleri , is commonly found in water sources including swimming pools having inadequate levels of chlorine , lakes , and rivers . N . fowleri can act as an opportunistic pathogen causing severe brain injury called Primary Amebic Meningoencephalitis ( PAM ) , often in healthy children and young adults . With a fatality rate over 97% , N . fowleri is considered one of the most deadly human pathogens . Despite the fact that precious lives are lost annually , N . fowleri infection is rare and economic incentives to invest in development of anti-PAM drugs by the pharmaceutical industry are lacking . In the absence of economic inducements , drug ‘repurposing’ is a cost effective strategy for re-profiling known drugs for the treatment of neglected diseases . The similarity between pathogenic fungi and free-living amoebae in the sterol biosynthesis pathway encouraged us to assess anti-mycotic drugs , clinically-approved for treatment of a variety of fungal diseases , for anti-Naegleria activity . Carrying out biochemical studies and x-ray-crystallography of the target enzyme , we demonstrated that azole anti-fungal drugs , known as conazoles , disrupt sterol biosynthesis in amoebae by competing with the natural substrate for binding in the active site of the sterol 14-demethylase ( CYP51 ) . Disruption of sterol biosynthesis leads to a rapid death of pathogenic amoebae .
Parasitic nematodes infect humans and livestock worldwide , affecting human fitness and food security . Despite decades of research , the development of vaccines against these pathogens has been largely unsuccessful . Since the initiation and maintenance of anti-nematode immune responses is paramount for the design of effective vaccines , a better understanding of the mechanisms governing such host protective immune responses is essential . The authors herein demonstrate that host signaling via interleukin-4 receptor alpha ( IL-4Rα ) is not only needed for the establishment of protective type 2 immune responses during primary infection of mice with the parasitic nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis , but also critical for the maintenance of such responses thereafter . The authors also demonstrate that the host resistance to re-infection with this parasitic nematode in previously infected mice is promoted by an intact IL-4Rα mediated signaling . These data suggest a novel role for IL-4Rα in the maintenance and recall of protective anti-nematode immune responses and imply a need for sustained IL-4Rα mediated signaling to achieve better vaccination efficiency against parasitic nematodes .
As humans move around the globe they contact new environments , potentially introducing novel diseases to wildlife , domestic animals and humans . Understanding how current infection patterns were established and how humans have likely altered them can help protect human , animal and environmental health . We traced the evolution of and distribution of globally distributed , pathogenic Bartonella , a common and well-studied bacterial genus in wildlife and humans that can cause cat scratch disease , trench fever and other diseases . We showed that humans are likely changing disease risk for themselves and the animals in their environment by moving themselves and domestic animals , as evidenced by large geographic movements of infections or shared infections in distantly related species . Not only does this increase our knowledge about Bartonella , an important emerging pathogen , but our investigation can serve as a model for elucidating the driving role of humans in changing disease landscapes .
The mammalian genome encodes large number of long non protein-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) . These lncRNAs are suggested to regulate key biological processes ( including cellular proliferation and differentiation ) , and aberrant expression of these is associated with cancer . However , only a few of these lncRNAs have been functionally validated in biological or disease processes . MALAT1 , an abundant nuclear-retained lncRNA , is overexpressed in several cancers , and its elevated expression has been associated with hyper-proliferation and metastasis . However , the underlying mechanism behind this deregulation and its association with cancer is poorly understood . Here , we establish the role of MALAT1 in the cell cycle pathway and propose the molecular mechanism of its function during normal cell cycle progression . MALAT1 RNA levels are differentially regulated and critical for normal cell cycle progression . Depletion of MALAT1 results in cell cycle arrest with significantly reduced cellular proliferation , simultaneously leading to activation of p53 and its target genes . Further , the accurate levels of MALAT1 in the cell are extremely crucial for expression and activity of the oncogenic transcription factor B-MYB , which is involved in G2/M progression . Our data indicates that the cancer-associated MALAT1 RNA regulates cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors .
Vitellogenesis , a hormonally-regulated process for the synthesis of yolk proteins by the fat body or liver and their sequestration in developing oocytes , takes place in all oviparous animals except mammals . Polyploidy has also been implicated in hormone-regulated development and reproduction . Although juvenile hormone ( JH ) is known to regulate polyploidy in insect models and also plays a pivotal role in stimulating insect vitellogenesis , the molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . In the migratory locust , Locusta migratoria , vitellogenesis is dependent on JH , and JH stimulates DNA replication and increases ploidy in the fat body . Here , we show that a JH-receptor complex comprised of Methoprene-tolerant ( Met ) and a steroid receptor co-activator activates the transcription of two mini-chromosome maintenance ( Mcm ) genes , Mcm4 and Mcm7 . Knockdown of Mcm4 or Mcm7 via RNAi can phenocopy JH-deprivation and Met-depletion , resulting in reduced ploidy , blocked vitellogenin ( Vg ) expression , as well as arrested oocyte maturation and ovarian growth . This study provides evidence that JH acts through its receptor on the Mcm machinery to replicate the genome of fat body cells in preparation for the massive synthesis of Vg and possibly other proteins required for oocyte maturation and egg production .
Nerve damage is a common and severe consequence of leprosy , and it can lead to impairment of sensory ( sensibility ) or motor ( muscle ) function of hand , feet and eyes . To prevent that the nerve damage becomes permanent , it is essential that new damage is treated in an early stage . Prednisolone , an immune suppressor , is the drug of choice . However , the ideal treatment duration is unknown . In our study , we compared a prednisolone treatment of 20 weeks with a longer treatment of 32 weeks . After the follow up period of 1 . 5 years , the percentage of patients with an improved or completely restored nerve function was the same in the two treatment groups , namely 78% . We can conclude that the longer treatment duration was not more effective , and that 20 weeks of prednisolone is sufficient to treat early nerve damage in most patients . We also found that in 15% of the patients neither one of the treatments was effective . For this specific group , more research needs to be done to find if alternative medication or perhaps even longer prednisolone treatment can be helpful .
More than 5 , 000 species of mammals share a basic larynx design . Many of them use the larynx to produce an enormous variability of sounds , but only in a handful of species has the physiology of sound production been studied . It is impracticable in most species because observation requires invasive techniques . Furthermore , many mammals do not spontaneously vocalize if they are manipulated or handled . We have constructed a finite element model of vocal fold tissue vibration on the basis of morphological and biomechanical features of the Rocky Mountain elk vocal organs . Operating within reasonable physiological parameter ranges , it allows the investigation of sound production efficiency as well as selective forces . The model can produce sounds with fundamental frequencies ranging between 60 and 1 , 200 Hz , covering not only some of the natural vocal repertoire of the elk's high-pitched bugle calls but also those of its close relative , the European Red Deer , who produces low-pitched roaring sounds with a similar anatomy . The approach is of broader interest , first because techniques can be adapted to other mammal species using only landmark anatomical and biomechanical features , and second , because simulations can serve as playbacks for perception studies investigating the role of vocalizations in communication .
Annotating repetitive regions of genomes experimentally is a challenging task . Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) provides valuable data for characterizing repetitive regions of genomes in terms of transcription factor binding . Although ChIP-seq technology has been maturing , available ChIP-seq analysis methods and software rely on discarding sequence reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome ( multi-reads ) , thereby generating a missed opportunity for assessing transcription factor binding to highly repetitive regions of genomes . We develop a computational algorithm that takes multi-reads into account in ChIP-seq analysis . We show with computational experiments that multi-reads lead to significant increase in sequencing depths and identification of binding regions that are otherwise not identifiable when only reads that uniquely map to the reference genome ( uni-reads ) are used . In particular , we show that the number of binding regions identified can increase up to 36% . We support our computational predictions with independent quantitative real-time ChIP validation of binding regions identified only when multi-reads are incorporated in the analysis of a mouse GATA1 ChIP-seq experiment .
Human African trypanosomiasis , leprosy , visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas disease are neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) controlled or eliminated by innovative and intensified disease management ( IDM ) . We estimated the economic impact of meeting the 2020 targets defined by the WHO for NTD control/elimination , reinforced by the 2012 London Declaration . A systematic literature review identified information on productivity loss and out-of-pocket payments ( OPPs ) relating to these NTDs . The economic benefit was calculated by combining the estimated disease cases with estimated productivity losses and OPPs resulting from the diseases , from the perspective of affected individuals . Very little information about OPPs and productivity loss due to NTDs was found in the literature . The total global productivity gained by reaching the goals for the four IDM-NTDs was I$ 23 . 1 billion in the period 2011–2020 and I$ 35 . 9 billion in the period 2021–2030 . The reduction in OPPs was I$ 14 billion and I$ 18 billion for the same periods . In order to estimate the economic impact of meeting the London declaration targets regarding four IDM-NTDs , we had to combine data from various sources , heterogeneous background , and variable quality . Nevertheless , based on conservative assumptions and subsequent uncertainty analyses , we estimate that the benefits of achieving the targets are nearly double the required investments by endemic country governments and their development partners to reach the 2020 targets .
Neurons act together to encode information such as the nature of a sensory stimulus . The number of neurons used for individual stimuli and the nature of the encoding used are not well understood . Higher sensory areas have been observed to respond sparsely to sensory stimuli , meaning that only a relatively small number of neurons fire action potentials ( or “spikes” ) when any particular stimulus is present . Sparse spiking activity is present in primary auditory cortex but only after a sound has been playing for some period of time . Dense spiking , however , is present at stimulus onset . We found that each action potential in primary auditory cortex contributed approximately the same amount of information about a tone stimulus , which resulted in more accurate encoding from the dense onset spiking . The later sparse spiking retained stimulus information but required a longer time to read it out . This arrangement allows sensory stimuli to be identified rapidly yet represented efficiently for extended periods , while neurons still retain sensitivity to novel stimuli . Dense and sparse coding may therefore work together dynamically in order to represent complex , temporally overlapping sensory content .
A robust T cell response is the hallmark of an effective immune response to a variety of invading viruses . In many acute infections , the clearance of the viral pathogen is associated with a short and vigorous T cell response followed by development of pathogen-specific immune memory . However , some viruses can establish persistent infection in their respective host , during which an ongoing T cell response is required in order to prevent overwhelming viral replication . Little is known about the factors that sustain the T cell response in the persistent phase of a viral infection . In this report , we demonstrate that ligation of the OX40 molecule , which is expressed on T cells targeting the virus , is critically required in order to sustain the anti-viral immune response . We show that virus-specific , OX40-deficient T cells fail to accumulate sufficiently and consequently , mice lacking the OX40 receptor are incapable of controlling viral replication . Collectively our data establish OX40 as a crucial signaling molecule during a persistent viral infection .
How would animal life differ if it evolved again on Earth or any other habitable planet ? If variation and selection can overwhelm all the other factors that might impede the approach to an optimum , then traits of animals that fulfill similar functional needs—such as camera-type eyes for seeing or wings for flying—are more likely to emerge independently and repeatedly . In aquatic animal swimming , one performance criterion is the Strouhal number ( St ) , which specifies the frequency of fin movement for maximum propulsive efficiency in those animals that use the common “body/caudal fin” swimming mode , such as trout . Here , we use a combination of computational modeling , a robotic knifefish , and measurements of animal swimming behavior to study another widespread form of locomotion—“median/paired fin” swimming , used by animals as diverse as cuttlefish , triggerfish , and rays . Our studies provide quantitative evidence for a complementary performance criterion , called the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ) , which determines the wavelength of fin movement required for maximum propulsive force or thrust . Adherence to the OSW has independently emerged within eight clades of animals in three different phyla , including vertebrates and invertebrates , encompassing over a thousand species .
The cerebral cortex is built up of numerous neurons and cells supporting them , most of which originate from neural stem cells ( NSCs ) . NSCs divide symmetrically to produce themselves and asymmetrically to generate neurons , and both types of divisions reply on faithful segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells . In the current study , we study the functions of evolutionarily conserved chromosome regulators , known as condensin I and condensin II , during development of the cerebral cortex in mice . We find that condensins I and II have both overlapping and non-overlapping functions in NSC divisions and survival: loss of either one of condensins causes distinct abnormalities in the process of chromosome segregation . Remarkably , loss of condensin II , but not of condensin I , also alters chromosome architecture during non-dividing stages . Our results demonstrate convincingly that an intricate balance between condensins I and II plays a crucial role in NSC divisions . It will be of great interest to test in the future whether such balancing acts of the two condensin complexes might be misregulated in tumorigenic NSCs that undergo uncontrolled cell divisions .
Parasitic flatworms include more than 20 , 000 species that are classically hermaphrodites . Among them , the roughly hundred species of Schistosomatidae are intriguing because they are gonochoric . Schistosomes are responsible of the second most important parasitic disease worldwide , and eggs are the main cause of the inflammatory symptoms . Thus , studying the sexual reproduction mechanisms of schistosomes is of particular interest for drug development . Schistosome’s sex is genetically determined by the presence of sex chromosomes: ZZ in males or ZW in females . There is , however , no phenotypic dimorphism in the larval stages: sexual dimorphism appears only in the vertebrate host . In order to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic sexual dimorphism , we performed a transcriptome analysis ( RNA-Seq ) in five different stages of the parasite lifecycle as well as a chromatin status analysis ( ChIP-Seq ) in the non-differentiated stage cercariae and in the adult differentiated stage , for males and females separately . Our work presents evidence that sexual differentiation in S . mansoni is accompanied by distinct male and female transcriptional landscapes of known players of the host-parasite crosstalk , developmental pathways and epigenetic regulators . Our sex-comparative approach provides therefore new potential therapeutic targets to affect development and sexual reproduction of parasite .
Data annotation ( manual data curation ) tasks are at the very heart of modern biology . Experts performing curation obviously differ in their efficiency , attitude , and precision , but directly measuring their performance is not easy . We propose an experimental design schema and associated mathematical models with which to estimate annotator-specific correctness in large multi-annotator efforts . With these , we can compute confidence in every annotation , facilitating the effective use of all annotated data , even when annotations are conflicting . Our approach retains all annotations with computed confidence values , and provides more comprehensive training data for machine learning algorithms than approaches where only perfect-agreement annotations are used . We provide results of independent testing that demonstrate that our methodology works . We believe these models can be applied to and improve upon a wide variety of annotation tasks that involve multiple annotators .
Our studies show the utility of combining DNA vaccination with the goose platform for the development of polyclonal avian antibodies for use as candidate medical countermeasures . We demonstrate that these antibodies have potent anti-viral neutralizing activity in cell culture and are efficacious in preventing hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in Syrian hamsters when administered as a post-exposure prophylactic . The polyclonal anti-Andes virus antibodies were not effective if administered late in the disease course indicating that the effective use of an avian polyclonal antibody-based approach to preventing hantavirus disease will require rapid diagnosis and treatment of persons presenting signs of hantavirus disease .
Dnmt3a is generally assumed to be a de novo DNA methyltransferase that plays an important role in establishing DNA methylation patterns during embryogenesis . However , mutations in the human DNMT3A gene have been detected in various cancers , suggesting that the enzyme might also be relevant for DNA methylation in adult tissues and in tumors . We have established genome-wide methylation profiles at single base pair resolution to define Dnmt3a-dependent methylation changes in a mouse tumor model . Our results show that mouse tumors with a functional Dnmt3a enzyme are characterized by regional hypomethylation , while Dnmt3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypomethylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that Dnmt3a is required for maintaining normal DNA methylation patterns specifically in gene bodies and in active chromosome domains . Our study thus defines the role of Dnmt3a in maintaining DNA methylation patterns and provides a paradigm for understanding the effects of DNMT3A mutations on human cancer methylomes .
“Time cells” can be found throughout the vertebrate forebrain in various species and behavioral contexts . These neurons fire sparsely at precise times during a stereotyped behavior; however , how a neural circuit supports this remarkable property is not known . Here , we describe that the premotor neuronal circuit that is required in birds for singing—“HVC”—is organized in a spatial and temporal manner that supports sparse sequences of neural activity . During song , one class of principal neuron fires during a specific phase of a 30 Hz network rhythm . Fluorescent imaging using head-mounted microscopes reveals that calcium activity in nearby principal neurons is correlated in time with a length scale of 100 μm . Thus , variations in the phase or precise timing of the network rhythm across HVC can provide a mechanism for coordinating the activity of principal neurons . This observation suggests that the timing of principal cells is supported by a mesoscopic spatiotemporal pattern of neural activity .
The lifespan of an animal is determined by both environmental and genetic factors , and many of the mechanisms identified to increase lifespan are evolutionarily conserved across organisms . Previous longevity screens in C . elegans have identified over 100 genes , but ∼2 , 700 essential for normal development were excluded from analysis . Paradoxically , these essential genes are five times more likely to be highly conserved in phylogeny than genes with no obvious developmental phenotypes . We screened these 2 , 700 essential genes for increased adult lifespan by initiating the gene knockdown once the animal had reached adulthood , thus bypassing earlier developmental roles . We identified 64 genes that can extend lifespan when inactivated postdevelopmentally . More than 90% of the genes we identified are conserved from yeast to humans . Many of the newly identified longevity genes extend lifespan as robustly as the most well-characterized longevity mutants . It is possible that the homologues of these genes may also regulate lifespan in other organisms as well . Genetic analysis places some of these genes in known pathways regulated by insulin-like signaling , although many of these gene inactivations function independently of this mechanism of lifespan extension . Surprisingly , a subset of these gene inactivations that induce potent developmental arrest also facilitate enhanced survival in the arrested state , suggesting that aging at any stage may be subject to regulatory control .
Unlike mammals , adult teleost fish and urodele amphibians can fully regenerate lost appendages . Understanding what initiates regeneration in these vertebrates is of great interest to the scientific community . It has long been known that the epidermis that forms quickly over an amputated limb stump is critical for initiating regenerative programs . Yet , little of understood of the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which a simple adult epithelium transforms into this key signaling source . Here , we performed a large-scale , unbiased genetic screen for epithelial signaling deficiencies during the regeneration of amputated adult zebrafish fins , from which we identified several new mutants . One gene identified from this screen disrupts a specific component of the extracellular matrix material Laminin , Laminin beta 1a , a factor that we find to be dispensable in uninjured adult animals but required for all stages fin regeneration . Transient induction of this component by amputation polarizes the basal layer of the nascent epithelium , and , in turn , facilitates the synthesis of signaling factors , the positioning of ligand receptors , and the patterning of new bone cells . We also find that normal induction of Laminin beta 1a by injury relies on the function of Fibroblast growth factors , secreted polypeptide signals that are released early upon injury . Our results identify key early steps in the endogenous program for vertebrate appendage regeneration .
Recently , statistical approaches known as linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have become popular for analysing data from genome-wide association studies . In the last few years , a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed , but it has not always been clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously-proposed implementations . Here we compare the performance of several different LMM approaches ( and software implementations ) via their application to a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals . We also compare the LMM results to those obtained using alternative analysis methods . Overall , we find strong concordance between the results from the different LMM approaches and high correlation between the results from LMMs and most alternative approaches . We conclude that LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches and , in most applications , the precise LMM implementation will not be too important , and can be chosen on the basis of speed or convenience .
Chagas disease is caused by infection with the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and affects 16 million people in South and Central America . The disease starts with an acute phase where the parasite replicates rapidly and , if it remains untreated , is followed by a chronic phase , which can induce severe pathologies including cardiac insufficiency and megacolon , leading to death . Only two drugs with high toxicity exist to treat the acute phase of the disease and no drug is available for treatment of the chronic stage . We have screened a chemical library containing 2000 compounds to find molecules that inhibit the infection of host cells by T . cruzi in vitro . We found three different families of compounds that inhibit the parasite infection very efficiently , with low toxicity to host cells in vitro . We found that two of the compounds inhibit replication of the parasites , but the third one induces complete disintegration of the parasites inside host cells . This is especially interesting for the development of new drugs against the chronic stage of the disease , where parasites are intracellular and do not replicate actively .
Molecular xenomonitoring has demonstrated significant potential as a non-invasive means of providing reliable surveillance for the presence of lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) -causing parasites . Given the continuing successes of global mass drug administration efforts , the need for such non-invasive surveillance techniques is expanding . However , considering the significant infrastructural demands which such surveillance requires , the development of simplified surveillance methodologies will be fundamental to future programmatic implementation efforts . Accordingly , we have developed a novel , simplified diagnostic platform for point-of-collection-based detection of the LF-causing parasite , Brugia malayi in pools of mosquitoes . By coupling a rapid and inexpensive DNA extraction methodology with a field-friendly amplification platform and test strip-based detection assay , this backpack PCR system eliminates the need for expensive instrumentation and laboratory-based infrastructure . Furthermore , adaptation of the platform described here will allow for the straightforward and rapid development of a parallel assay for the detection of Wuchereria bancrofti , facilitating the increased use of xenomonitoring and enabling mosquito surveillance efforts in regions lacking sophisticated laboratory infrastructure .
Elastomeric proteins such as elastin , resilin , abductin and wheat gluten represent a remarkable class of self-assembling proteins that provide properties of extensibility and elastic recoil . Although unrelated from an evolutionary viewpoint , these proteins nonetheless share a common sequence design involving highly repetitive elastomeric regions interspersed with elements capable of forming cross-links that help stabilize the formation of polymers . Attempts to explore the influence of domain architecture on the self-assembly and mechanical properties of elastomeric proteins at the molecular level have largely been hindered by a general lack of detailed structural information . Here we introduce a novel theoretical study based on random walks to simulate the self-assembly of elastomeric proteins . Applying this model , we explored the impact of different configurations of elastomeric and cross-linking elements on the stability of the resultant polymer . Through exploring the complex relationships between elastomeric domains , required to drive self-assembly , and cross-linking domains , required for structural integrity , results from these simulations provide insights into the molecular basis for the evolution of elastomeric proteins as well as help guide the rational design of novel elastomeric-peptides .
Filoviruses ( Ebola and Marburg viruses ) are emerging zoonotic pathogens that cause lethal hemorrhagic fever in humans and have the potential to be employed as bioterrorism agents . Currently , approved therapeutics to treat filovirus infections are not available and new treatment strategies could be facilitated by improved mechanistic insight into the virus replication cycle . Compared to other related viruses , filovirus messenger RNAs have unusually long 5′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) with undefined functions . In the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) genome , four of its seven messenger RNAs have 5′-UTRs with a small upstream open reading frame ( uORF ) . We found that a uORF present in the EBOV polymerase ( L ) 5′-UTR suppresses L protein production and established a reporter assay to demonstrate that this uORF maintains L translation following the induction of an innate immune response; a phenomenon observed with several uORF-containing cellular messenger RNAs . The presence of the uORF is important for optimal virus replication , because a mutant virus lacking the upstream reading frame replicates less efficiently than a wildtype virus , an attenuation which is more pronounced following the induction of cellular stress . These studies define a novel mechanism by which filovirus upstream open reading frames modulate virus protein translation in the face of an innate immune response and highlight their importance in filovirus replication .
The study of chromosomal domains is hampered both by the complexity of chromosomal architecture and by the lack of experimental approaches for identification of structural and functional elements in chromosomes . The primary nucleosomal level in organization of chromosomes was detected by digestion of chromatin with exogenous nucleases . Many years ago , we detected 50–250 kb chromosomal domains that are released when genomic DNA is prepared under mild conditions , now known as forum domains . We assumed that this large-scale fragmentation of chromosomes by endogenous nucleases reflected some higher-order level of organization in chromosomes . However , both the existence of large 50–250 kb protected regions and short regions possessing hot spots of DNA breakage might reflect specific features in organization of chromosomes . Here , we used a procedure for genome-wide mapping of terminal regions of forum domains in human chromosomes . Our results show that hot spots of DNA breaks are not randomly distributed along chromosomes , that adjacent to these regions are binding sites of PARP1 and HNRNPA2B1 , and that forum domains contain coordinately expressed gene clusters .
Among all mammals carrying trypanosomatids , bats are considered some of the most ancient hosts , and due to their good adaptation to different landscape features , they may play an important role in parasite dispersion . To assess whether the diversity of trypanosomatid species in bats is affected by the level of environmental disturbance , we collected blood from bats in two localities of Rio Janeiro state in Brazil: one with high and another with low human interference ( more preserved ) . The collected blood was subjected to fresh blood tests and hemoculture . Using the 18S RNA gene as a molecular target , we identified 24 bats ( 13% ) infected by trypanosomatids , mostly by T . dionisii , a trypanosome species commonly found in all Brazilian biomes and highly associated with bats . Three subpopulations ( DTUs I , III and IV ) of T . cruzi , the etiological agent of Chagas disease , were also found to infect bats . In addition , we detected for the first time a putative insect-associated parasite , Crithidia mellificae , in a mammal host in the Americas . Our work reveals the high diversity of trypanosomatids infecting bats of the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro state , reinforcing their importance as potential reservoirs of trypanosomatids .
Ticks transmit more pathogens than any other arthropod , and one single species can transmit a large variety of bacteria and parasites . Because co-infection might be much more common than previously thought , we evaluated the prevalence of 38 known or neglected tick-borne pathogens in Ixodes ricinus ticks . Our results demonstrated that co-infection occurred in almost half of the infected ticks , and that ticks could be infected with up to five pathogens . Moreover , as it is well established that symbionts can affect pathogen transmission in arthropods , we also evaluated the prevalence of four symbiont species and demonstrated that all ticks were infected by at least one microorganism . This work highlights the co-infection phenomenon in ticks , which may have important implications for human and animal health , emphasizing the need for new diagnostic tests better adapted to tick-borne diseases . Finally , the high co-occurrence of symbionts and pathogens in ticks , reveals the necessity to also account for these interactions in the development of new alternative strategies to control ticks and tick-borne disease .
An important question in developmental biology is how different lineage choices are regulated at the genetic level . Robust lineage decisions are implemented by genetic switches , whereby one set of master genes are ON and another set are OFF , leading to a specific expression pattern of genes for a particular lineage . We develop a computational model to illustrate these principles as applied to the hematopoietic erythroid-myeloid lineage choice , where two master regulator genes , PU . 1 and GATA-1 , function as a genetic switch . The model , which is based upon known interactions , suggests missing interactions between the master genes , which we hypothesize , so as to reproduce the desired dynamics . Furthermore , there exist feedback interactions between the master genes and their downstream targets . When these are included in the model , the dynamics imply that the feedback is responsible for irreversible commitment . Our results suggest the search for missing interactions between the master genes in terms of a coregulated cofactor . The second important result of the model is that reprogramming irreversible cell fate may be possible by perturbing feedback regulation between the master genes and their downstream targets . Hence , dynamical modeling provides prediction of novel mechanisms and also strategies for reprogramming the fates of cells .
Enterococcus faecalis is a commensal bacterium colonizing the gastro-intestinal tract of humans . This organism can cause life-threatening opportunistic infections and represents a reservoir for the transmission of antibiotic resistance genes such as resistance to vancomycin . E . faecalis strains responsible for nosocomial infections are also found in healthy individuals and the virulence factors identified so far are not strictly associated with clinical isolates . The molecular basis underpinning E . faecalis infections therefore remains unclear . In this work , we identify several mutations clustered on the chromosome , which play a role in the resistance of E . faecalis to effectors of the innate immune system such as lysozyme and bile salts . We show that the corresponding genes contribute to the decoration of a conserved polysaccharide called the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen and that this decoration is essential for E . faecalis virulence . This mechanism critical for pathogenesis represents an attractive therapeutic target to control enterococcal infections .
Recent studies from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) showed that most Acute Myeloid Leukemia ( AML ) patients lack DNA mutations , which can potentially explain the tumorigenesis , and motivated a systematic approach to elucidate aberrant molecular signatures at the transcriptional and epigenetic levels . Using recently available data from two large consortia namely Encyclopedia of DNA Elements and TCGA , we developed a novel computational model to infer the regulatory activities of the expression regulators and their target genes in AML samples . Our analysis revealed 18 regulators whose dysregulation contributed significantly to explaining the global mRNA expression changes . Encouragingly , the inferred activities of these regulatory features followed a consistent pattern with cytogenetic phenotypes of the AML patients . Among these regulators , we identified microRNA hsa-miR-548p , whose regulatory relationships with leukemia-related genes including YY1 suggest its novel role in AML pathogenesis . Additionally , we discovered that the inferred activities of transcription factor C-Fos can be used as a prognostic marker to characterize survival rate of the AML patients . Together , we demonstrated an effective model that can integrate useful information from a large amount of heterogeneous data to dissect regulatory effects . Furthermore , the novel biological findings from this study may be constructive to future experimental research in AML .
Colletotrichum sp . comprises a diverse group of fungal pathogens that attack over 3000 plant species worldwide . Understanding the underlying mechanisms that govern fungal development and pathogenicity may enable more effective and sustainable approaches to crop disease management and control . In most organisms , RNA silencing is an important mechanism to control endogenous and exogenous RNA . RNA silencing utilizes small regulatory molecules ( small RNAs ) produced by proteins called Dicer ( DCL ) , and exercise their function though effector proteins named Argonaute ( AGO ) . Here , we investigated the role of RNA silencing machinery in the fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum , by generating deletions in genes encoding RNA silencing components . Severe defects were observed in both conidiation and conidia morphology in the Δdcl1 , Δdcl1Δdcl2 , and Δago1 strains . Analysis of transcripts and small RNAs revealed an uncharacterized dsRNA virus persistently infecting C . higginsianum . The virus was shown ( 1 ) to be de-repressed in the Δdcl1 , Δdcl1Δdcl2 and Δago1 strains , and ( 2 ) to cause the conidiation and spore mutant phenotypes . Our results indicate that C . higginsianum employs RNA silencing as an antiviral mechanism to suppress viruses and their debilitating effects .
Phosphorylation of H2AX is a well-established step in the DNA damage response of somatic cells , and also occurs in germ cells during meiosis . During spermatogenesis , H2AX phosphorylation regulates the formation and repair of programmed DSBs and meiotic silencing of unpaired chromosomes . A critical step in these processes is spreading of H2AX phosphorylation along the chromosomes beyond the initiation site , which occurs by a poorly characterized mechanism . Here , we report that MOF is involved in the proper expansion of H2AX phosphorylation during meiosis . MOF also influences meiotic sex chromosome inactivation by facilitating early pachytene recruitment of MDC1 , but is dispensable for BRCA1 or ATR recruitment to axial elements . Furthermore , MOF is involved in proper meiotic recombination and male germ cell development . As well as identifying a new MOF-dependent step for regulating expansion of H2AX phosphorylation , these findings have broad implications for the role of epigenetic modifications in meiosis and human reproductive health .
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is a retrovirus responsible for the development of Adult T cell Leukemia , an aggressive malignant lymphoproliferation that occurs several decades after viral exposure in some individuals infected when neonates via breastfeeding . Here , we used mice that were humanized by transplantation of human hematopoietic stem cells isolated from cord blood . Such an animal model may reproduce key aspects of in vivo infection with HTLV-1 and improve the understanding of the early steps of the leukemogenic process . These humanized mice when inoculated with HTLV-1 were indeed productively infected , as shown by the detection and the expression of the provirus in human cells . We observed that T-cell development in the thymus of these mice was profoundly altered , as ascertained by the increased proliferation of activated mature T lymphocytes that accumulated in the thymus as well as in the spleen . These alterations of human thymic T-cell development may be linked to the development of ATL–like pathologies . These results show that this humanized mouse model provides an invaluable tool not only to study the early stages of the infection leading to the development of malignant lymphoproliferations , but also to design new therapeutic approaches .
Schistosomiasis remains a major public health concern and is one of the major causes of morbidity among school-aged children in Sudan . To control schistosomiasis in White Nile State of Sudan , the Korea International Cooperation Agency ( KOICA ) implemented an integrated control program including mass chemotherapy with praziquantel and health education to school children and village residents , and construction of a drinking water supply facility at Al Hidaib village from 2009 to 2011 . As a result of this project , the overall prevalence of S . haematobium infection was reduced by >50% in comparison with the baseline rates ( 95% CI = 0 . 331–0 . 462 ) . The infection reduction rates were higher among girls , those with moderate infection status ( around 20% ) , and residents of rural areas; than for those of boys , subjects with high infection status ( >40% ) and residents of urban areas . A supply of clean water at Al Hidaib village contributed significantly to the reduction in the prevalence of urogenital schistosomiasis in comparison to Khour Ajwal village , which is similar natural environment and lifestyle of Al Hidaib village . However , the prevalence of S . mansoni infection did not significantly change . Also , the awareness of knowledge about schistosomiasis and health improvement was apparently improved by the results of questionnaires survey . Through this project , approximately 200 , 000 individuals benefited from either drug treatment , health education , or a clean water supply . To consolidate the achievements of the project , sustainable integrated control activities should be implemented in the near future .
Nipah virus ( NiV ) is a lethal , newly emerging virus that causes fatal inflammation of the brain and has a high death rate in infected humans . NiV and the closely related Hendra virus ( HeV ) can also infect agriculturally important livestock such as pigs and horses . The lack of effective vaccines and treatments , and the ongoing threat they pose to both agriculture and public health , have led to the classification of NiV and HeV as Biosafety Level 4 ( BSL4 ) pathogens . Paramyxoviruses such as NiV are known to replicate in the cytoplasm and bud from the plasma membrane . Viral assembly and budding is mediated by the matrix structural protein . However , we found , quite unexpectedly , that the matrix protein of NiV needs to transit through the nucleus before gaining the functional ability to localize and bud from the plasma membrane . Although NiV-M has putative nuclear import and export signals , we also found that ubiquitination of a conserved lysine residue in NiV-M is critical for nuclear export , subsequent membrane localization and viral budding . Proteasome inhibitors , which deplete cellular pools of free ubiquitin , potently reduce viral titers during live NiV infection , opening up new possibilities for therapeutics against acute NiV infection .
During travel between hosts , the genome of a virus is well protected by the viral capsid and/or envelope . After binding specifically to target cells , the virus particles enter cells by hijacking cell trafficking pathways and then deliver the viral genome into the appropriate compartment of the cell where it directs the production of progeny virus particles . How nonenveloped viruses , such as poliovirus , enter target cells is not well understood . Here , we produced fully infectious poliovirus with both genome and capsid specifically labeled by fluorescent dyes . We could then use real-time fluorescent microscopy to follow single virus particles during infection , to define how they enter cells and to determine when and where in the cell the genome gets released . We have complemented the microscopic studies with virological assays , which demonstrate that the pathways observed by microscopy are productive . We show that poliovirus enters live cells in a process that requires energy , an intact actin cytoskeleton , and cell signaling pathways , but does not depend on the well-known markers of endocytic pathways . We show that after internalization , the genome release is surprisingly efficient and occurs from vesicles that are very close to the cell surface . Our experiments offer new insights into the early steps of poliovirus infection , and describe methods that can be used for a wide variety of other viruses .
Health education is essential for the control of diseases such as dengue , ensuring that community members understand the mechanisms of infection and the key behaviours or activities that need to be addressed to prevent transmission , reduce severe disease and avoid fatalities . In Cambodia , health education for dengue control is provided in primary schools , at village health centres and by the National Dengue Control Program . However , these educational programs are accorded low priority , strategies and materials are not evaluated on a routine basis , messages are sometimes confusing , and health staff and teachers lack the training , time and opportunities to deliver educational messages . Recommendations to villages are not always practical or effective in preventing mosquito bites , and funds are not available to provide new educational materials . While school children and their parents therefore have some familiarity with the behaviour and habitat of the aedes mosquito and the environmental factors that contribute to dengue fever , their knowledge is uneven and knowledge is rarely translated to reduce the risk of infection . Community involvement in the prevention and control of dengue is essential , but will not be effective while health education is poorly resourced and irregular and lessons on prevention do not result in action .
Filarial parasites commonly infect humans and animals , especially in tropical settings . The strongly debilitating panel of diseases they cause in humans contributes to an entrenched cycle of poverty . For efficient treatment strategies , reliable diagnostic tests are necessary . We investigated the potential of parasite-derived microRNAs ( miRNAs; short non-coding RNA molecules present in eukaryotes ) as biomarkers of infection . Using deep-sequencing technologies and bioinformatics , we identified over two-hundred mature miRNA candidates of nematode origin in plasma from Dirofilaria immitis-infected dogs . Similarly , we discovered twenty-one miRNA candidates predicted to be released by Onchocerca volvulus in infected human sera . We developed two RT-qPCR assays for the detection of D . immitis miR-71 and miR-34 in dog plasma that discriminated infected from uninfected samples . We demonstrated the presence of filarial miRNAs in host blood , regardless of localization in their respective hosts , and suggest that they are suitable targets for detection by RT-qPCR .
Src tyrosine kinases are large protein molecules that play an important role in the regulation of cellular growth and proliferation . In doing so , Src kinases have the ability to affect the activity of other proteins inside the cell by turning them “on” or “off . ” Dysfunctional Src kinase activity has been associated with many human diseases , most importantly cancer , which makes them important targets for therapeutic intervention . To understand how a Src kinase molecule is able to change its shape ( conformation ) and switch between its active or inactive states , we constructed a computer model . The results from the model provide a broad conceptual framework for interpreting the main features of the change of protein conformation taking place upon Src activation . It is our hope that these results will help design new experiments to refine our understanding of the activation of Src kinases .
Many flowering plants tolerate changes in the number of genome copies ( ploidy ) , but offspring of parents with different ploidies often fail to develop . We investigated this phenomenon in Arabidopsis thaliana and discovered variation in the ability to survive interploidy matings . Two common strains ( known as accessions ) , Ler and Col , are respectively permissive and intolerant when diploid females are mated to tetraploid males of Col . We mapped the genes responsible for this response and identified a major locus , which we call DR . STRANGELOVE1 , on chromosome 2 , and after finer mapping , defined the locus TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA2 ( TTG2 ) as the candidate gene . TTG2 regulates the fate of interploidy crosses , and knock-outs of TTG2 improved the outcome of interploidy matings in both Ler and Col . Furthermore , the two accessions differed in genotype and in expression of this gene . TTG2 is an epidermal regulator whose activity affects seed endosperm development . Importantly , TTG2 acts within tissue of the seed-plant , indicating that a transgenerational interaction is responsible for controlling the outcome of interploidy mating .
Bats and rodents are important hosts for emerging human diseases . While a large body of research has focused on viral pathogens in these hosts , the diversity , evolution , and transmission of their bacterial pathogens remains relatively unstudied . We conducted co-evolutionary analyses of two bacterial genera know to be pathogenic in humans , Bartonella and Leptospira , along with their bat and rodent hosts . We found that Bartonella had a significant pattern of coevolution with both bat and rodent hosts , while Leptospira in bats showed a lack of congruence with its bat hosts and a high number of host switching events . Our statistically driven approach to understand the frequency of host switching events in these mammal–bacterial systems can be easily applied to other host–pathogen systems , including viruses , to assess the likelihood of zoonotic spillover .
The damped harmonic oscillator framework has been applied to interrogate numerous engineering systems like the tuned mass damper used in power transmission , automobiles , and buildings to reduce vibrations . We apply the same framework to undulatory swimming to understand the emergence of movement due to muscular and/or environmental forcing . It helps elucidate why flexible bodies can indeed be propelled forward by not only the internal muscular forcing but also by external fluid forces as reported earlier in which dead trout were found to swim in the wake of cylinder . We show how forcing triggers the first few deformation modes of the swimmer similar to how the appropriate forcing triggers the fundamental deformation modes on a guitar string . We show how the lower deformation modes produce the best forward propulsion of the body . This insight reveals that swimming is viable for small enough frequencies of neuromuscular activation relative to the natural frequencies of the body and for sufficiently stiff elastic properties . Thus , these results identify the key mechanistic parameters that would have been crucial to the evolutionary emergence of swimming animals . The proposed framework can help understand neural control of movement in swimming as well as control of underwater vehicles .
Genetic recombination allows transfer of harmful traits between different strains of the same pathogen and enables the emergence of genetically novel pathogen strains that the host population has not previously encountered . This can be particularly important when a pathogen acquires a virulence trait that allows it to spread beyond its normal host population . Here we show that this happens among the single-celled parasites—trypanosomes—that cause human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) or sleeping sickness carried by the tsetse fly . Genetic recombination readily occurs between the human and animal parasites when they are co-transmitted by the tsetse fly , creating new pathogen genotypes or strains . There is a single gene that confers human infectivity and each of the genotypes that inherits this gene is potentially capable of infecting humans . In this way new strains of the human pathogen can be generated by recombination between the human-infective and animal-infective trypanosomes . Such novel recombinants present a risk for future outbreaks of HAT .
Diabetes is a disease reaching a global epidemic , which results from dysfunction to the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas and their ability to secrete the hormone insulin to regulate glucose homeostasis . Islets are multicellular structures that show extensive coupling between heterogeneous cellular units; and central to the causes of diabetes is a dysfunction to these cellular units and their interactions . Understanding the inter-relationship between structure and function is challenging in biological systems , but is crucial to the cause of disease and discovering therapeutic targets . With the goal of further characterizing the islet of Langerhans and its excitable behavior , we examined the role of important channels in the islet where dysfunction is linked to or causes diabetes . Advances in our ability to computationally model perturbations in physiological systems has allowed for the testing of hypothesis quickly , in systems that are not experimentally accessible . Using an experimentally validated model and modeling human mutations , we discover that monogenic forms of diabetes may be remedied by a reduction in electrical coupling between cells; either alone or in conjunction with pharmacological intervention . Knowledge of biological systems in general is also helped by these findings , in that small changes to cellular elements may lead to major disruptions in the overall system . This may then be overcome by allowing the system components to function independently in the presence of dysfunction to individual cells .
Biological modules are inherently context-dependent as the input/output behavior of a module often changes upon connection with other modules . One source of context-dependence is retroactivity , a loading phenomenon by which a downstream system affects the behavior of an upstream system upon interconnection . This fact renders it difficult to predict how modules will behave once connected to each other . In this paper , we propose a general modeling framework for gene transcription networks to accurately predict how retroactivity affects the dynamic behavior of interconnected modules , based on salient physical properties of the same modules in isolation . We illustrate how our framework predicts surprising and counter-intuitive dynamic properties of naturally occurring network structures , which cannot be captured by existing models of the same dimension . We describe implications of our findings on the bottom-up approach to designing synthetic circuits , and on the top-down approach to identifying functional modules in natural networks , revealing trade-offs between robustness to interconnection and dynamic performance . Our framework carries substantial conceptual analogies with electrical network theory based on equivalent representations . We believe that the framework we have proposed , also based on equivalent network representations , can be similarly useful for the analysis and design of biological networks .
Recombination is a fundamental biological process , which shuffles genes between pairs of chromosomes during the production of eggs and sperm . After shuffling , the chromosomes consist of alternating sequences of genes from each parent , where the switches are the result of ‘crossovers’ . Recombination is essential for eggs and sperm to receive the correct number of chromosomes , failure in which is an important cause of miscarriage , birth defects and mental retardation . Males have the particular challenge of recombining between the X and Y chromosomes . Unlike the other 22 chromosome pairs , the X and Y chromosomes do not match up , except for a small special region called PAR1 , which must host a crossover . We investigate recombination in PAR1 by building a ‘map’ of where it occurs in African-American families . We use a variety of approaches , both analytical and experimental , to demonstrate the role of a protein called PRDM9 in marking crossovers in this region . PRDM9 has previously been shown to position crossovers on the other chromosomes , but a role in PAR1 was unexpected based on research in mice . We also show that the recombination map has changed in the evolutionary history of PAR1 , both among human populations , and between human and chimpanzee .
Gene expression is regulated in part by so-called “epigenetic” mechanisms—modifications of the DNA itself or of proteins associated with DNA ( such as histones ) . We have studied an enzyme that affects these histone modifications—the histone demethylase JMJD2A—and its role in muscle differentiation . Muscle differentiation is tightly controlled during the development of the organism to ensure that muscle forms at the right place and at the right time . Muscle precursor cells are prevented from differentiating by silencing of a “master gene” of muscle differentiation called Myog . This silencing is brought about by specific epigenetic modifications of the Myog gene that are removed when the precursor cell receives a signal to differentiate . Here , we have discovered a new isoform of JMJD2A that is upregulated during muscle differentiation and that is required for activation of Myog . Binding of this JMJD2A isoform to the Myog gene is probably a crucial step in inducing muscle differentiation . Our findings thus uncover the existence of a second isoform of the histone demethylase JMJD2A important for muscle differentiation and suggest that the balance between JMJD2A isoforms is important for controlling the fate of muscle precursor cells .
Of the three diseases targeted for eradication by WHO , two are Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) –guinea worm disease and yaws . The decision to pursue eradication of these diseases was based , in part , on economic arguments made at a time when case numbers were high . There is , in fact , little published evidence of the cost and cost-effectiveness of an eradication programme in the end game , when the number of cases is lower and the cost per case is higher than at any other time . The Guinea Worm Eradication Programme ( GWEP ) is in its final stages , with only 25 cases reported in 2016 . Ours is the first economic evaluation of the GWEP since a World Bank study in 1997 . For the first time for any eradication programme , we document the full cost of certifying the absence of transmission in all countries with a history of the disease . We analyze the cost-effectiveness of the GWEP to find that it remains highly cost-effective in spite of high costs in the end game . These results will be of interest to funders of guinea worm disease and yaws eradication , but also to policy makers considering eradication of other NTDs .
Lyme disease , caused by Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex , is the most common tick-borne infection in the Northern hemisphere . As a pathogen that is transmitted within blood and body fluids , Borrelia species must combat the complement system , which is a soluble host defense pathway that marks invaders for elimination . Previously , we demonstrated that the B . burgdorferi protein BBK32 blocks the activation of the classical pathway of complement by binding to and inhibiting the initiating protease , C1r . Here we show that the BBK32 orthologue from B . garinii , designated BGD19 , is unable to neutralize complement-mediated serum killing . In contrast , BBK32 and the B . afzelii orthologue BAD16 potently inhibits serum killing . Comparison of the amino acid sequences of these proteins identified three residues unique to BGD19 that contribute to its reduced inhibitory activity . The three-dimensional structure of BBK32-C , reported here , showed that these residue positions are surface exposed in BBK32 , further supporting their role in C1r inhibition . These results render important insight into how Lyme disease-associated spirochetes recognize and block an important human innate immune pathway and provide mechanistic insight into evolutionarily optimized C1r inhibitors .
The fungus Candida albicans is a commensal in the human microbiota , responsible for superficial infections such as oral and vaginal thrush . However , it can become highly virulent , causing life-threatening systemic candidemia in severely immunocompromised patients , including those taking immunosuppressive drugs for transplantation , sufferers of AIDS and neutropenia , and individuals undergoing chemotherapy or at extremes of age . With a rapidly increasing ageing population worldwide , C . albicans and other fungal pathogens will become more prevalent , demanding a greater understanding of their pathogenesis for the development of effective therapeutics . Fungal pathogenicity requires a coordinated change in the pattern of gene expression orchestrated by a set of transcription factors . Here we have discovered that a transcription factor , Fkh2 , is modified by phosphorylation under the control of the kinases Cdc28 and Cbk1 in response to conditions that activate virulence factor expression . Fkh2 is involved in a wide variety of cellular processes including cell proliferation , but this phosphorylation endows it with a specialized function in promoting the expression of genes required for tissue invasion , biofilm formation , and pathogenesis in the host . This study highlights the role of protein phosphorylation in regulating pathogenesis and furthers our understanding of the pathogenic switch in this important opportunistic fungal pathogen .
Human pathogenic trypanosomatids are responsible for several life threatening diseases , together infecting 20 million people , while treatment is complicated by poor drug therapies . The unique biology of these organisms has led to the need for different drug therapies to be developed for each . Identification of enzymatic targets that could be used to develop a single drug capable of treating multiple parasites would be revolutionary . Herein we show that the trypanosomatid biosynthetic pathway used to synthesize key precursors for DNA biosynthesis is unexpectedly vulnerable . We find that seemingly redundant enzymes thymidine kinase and cytidine deaminase are required , not for their typical role in salvaging exogenous precursors , but are instead essential for de novo synthesis of thymine nucleotides . Trypanosomatids lack alternative routes to synthesize these nucleotides , which are found in other eukaryotic cells , while encoding a previously unknown activity that degrades them . For these reasons thymidine kinase is essential to support infection in mice and has strong potential as a new drug target . While our work focused on the causative agent of African sleeping sickness , the impact of our findings may extend to other pathogenic trypanosomatids and potentially to additional single-celled eukaryotic human pathogens .
Protein biosynthesis ( translation ) is a highly regulated process in gene expression . In all organisms , initiation of translation depends on molecular recognition of the messenger RNA by ribosomes . In prokaryotes ( bacteria , mitochondria , and chloroplasts ) , this recognition is mediated by a specific sequence motif in the 5′ untranslated region of the mRNA , called “ribosome-binding site” or “Shine-Dalgarno sequence . ” However , many messenger RNAs lack Shine-Dalgarno sequences , and it is currently unknown how the correct translation initiation site is recognized in these mRNAs . Here , we provide insights into the mechanism of translation initiation in the absence of a ribosome-binding site . We have performed genome-wide searches for Shine-Dalgarno–independent translation in bacterial and organellar genomes and report that a large fraction of transcripts is translated in a Shine-Dalgarno–independent manner in all prokaryotic systems . We find that Shine-Dalgarno–independent translation initiation is strongly correlated with the presence of a local minimum in RNA secondary structure around the translational start codon . The significance of RNA unfoldedness as the key determinant of start codon recognition in Shine-Dalgarno–independent translation initiation was confirmed experimentally by employing reporter gene fusions in the bacterium Escherichia coli . In conclusion , our work suggests an intriguing mechanism for translation initiation on mRNAs that lack a ribosome-binding site .
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) , also known as Kala-azar , is caused by the parasite L . donovani . Half of cases worldwide occur in India , with up to 90% of these in Bihar state . Post Kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a difficult to treat skin condition that develops in up to 10% of VL cases following treatment in the Indian subcontinent . Although often mild , PKDL can be severe and disfiguring . Patients are otherwise healthy . PKDL is considered a reservoir of L . donovani and requires treating to support disease elimination . Between 2007–2012 , 8311 patients diagnosed with a first episode of VL completed treatment with 20 mg/kg intravenous liposomal amphotericin B ( Ambisome ) in a Médecins Sans Frontières ( MSF ) programme supported by the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute ( RMRI ) in Bihar . Ambisome is a safe and effective treatment that is recommended by the WHO for first-line use in the Indian subcontinent; although not yet included in the Indian guidelines . PKDL has been described following all VL treatments , but so far in only two patients treated with Ambisome . Here , we describe 24 patients treated with Ambisome who returned to the MSF treatment programme with confirmed PKDL . We found no risk factors for PKDL following treatment; however , the average time to development of PKDL was much shorter than that seen following older treatments .
Chagas disease is transmitted by blood-sucking bugs ( vectors ) and presents a severe public health threat in the Americas . Worldwide there are approximately 10 million people infected with Chagas disease , a disease for which there is currently no effective cure . Vector suppression is the main strategy to control the spread of this disease . Unfortunately , the vectors have been resurgent in some areas . It is important to understand the dynamics of reinfestation where it occurs . Here we show how different models fitted to patch-level bug infestation data can elucidate different aspects of re-establishment dynamics . Our results demonstrated a 6-month time lag between detection of a new infestation and dispersal events , seasonality in dispersal rates and effects of previous vector infestation on subsequent vector establishment rates . In addition we provide estimates of dispersal distances and the effect of insecticide spraying on rates of vector re-establishment . While some of our results confirm previous findings , the effects of season and previous infestation on bug establishment challenge our current understanding of T . infestans ecology and highlight important gaps in our knowledge of T . infestans dispersal .
The recent discovery of virally encoded microRNAs ( miRNAs ) raises the possibility of additional regulatory processes being involved in viral replication , immune recognition , and host cell survival . In this study , we sought to characterize the effect of SV40-encoded miRNAs and the structure of the viral regulatory region on infections in outbred Syrian golden hamsters . Results revealed that SV40 has a wide tissue tropism , including liver , kidney , spleen , lung , and brain , with kidney the preferred site for long-term persistent infection . Significant increases in tissue-associated viral DNA loads were observed with miRNA-negative mutant strains , whereas the presence of SV40 miRNAs had no effect on tumor induction and little effect on viral clearance . Our results provide the first evidence for SV40 miRNA expression and function in an in vivo animal model and highlight the complexity of regulation of SV40 viral replication and persistent infections .
Populations evolve as mutations arise in individual organisms and , through hereditary transmission , gradually become “fixed” ( shared by all individuals ) in the population . Many mutations have essentially no effect on organismal fitness and can become fixed only by the stochastic process of neutral drift . However , some mutations produce a selective advantage that boosts their chances of reaching fixation . Genes in which new mutations tend to be beneficial , rather than neutral or deleterious , tend to evolve rapidly and are said to be under positive selection . Genes involved in immunity and defense are a well-known example; rapid evolution in these genes presumably occurs because new mutations help organisms to prevail in evolutionary “arms races” with pathogens . Many mammalian genes show evidence of positive selection , but open questions remain about the overall impact of positive selection in mammals . For example , which key differences between species can be attributed to positive selection ? How have patterns of selection changed across the mammalian phylogeny ? What are the effects of population size and gene expression patterns on positive selection ? Here we attempt to shed light on these and other questions in a comprehensive study of ∼16 , 500 genes in six mammalian genomes .
Most people know Staphylococcus aureus as a highly infectious “Super Bug” , but many are not aware that S . aureus non-infectiously colonizes much of the population in the nose , among other bodily niches . It is not well understood how and why S . aureus is able to adapt and readily switch between the commensal and pathogenic lifestyle within the host; however , the capacity to accumulate into multicellular aggregates is a hallmark associated with both lifestyles . In this work , we demonstrate that S . aureus produces extracellular fibers in multicellular biofilm communities , and that these fibers help the bacterial community to withstand physical stresses . Surprisingly , these fibers consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ) that have previously been implicated in biofilm disassembly and virulence . We demonstrate that accumulation of PSM peptides into fibers modulates their ability to disperse biofilms . Thus , PSMs fulfill dual and opposing roles that are modulated by amyloid-like aggregation . Staphylococci have never before been shown to produce this kind of extracellular structure , and our findings may have a profound impact on our understanding of S . aureus physiology . We have found that these structures are composed of known virulence factors , which indicates a common pathway between infectious and static lifestyles in the body .
Chagas disease is a zoonosis caused by Trypanosoma cruzi infection . In this study , we sought to identify a simple serologic biomarker that can supersede PCR techniques in characterizing patients for parasite persistence , whether circulating or shielding in tissues . A multiparametric assay was designed to evaluate antibody diversity in untreated and benznidazole-treated chronic cardiomyopathy patients . Out of 15 different antigens we identified a distinct antibody specificity that strongly correlates with parasite persistence . This putative biomarker could be used to monitor active infection in T . cruzi seropositive patients and identify patients that responded to anti-parasitic therapy .
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is spread by mosquitoes and causes severe joint and muscle pain . Approximately 30 to 60 percent of people infected with CHIKV continue to experience joint pain for months to years after the initial infection . However , the cause of this persistent joint pain is unclear , as replicating virus cannot be detected during the chronic phase . We have developed a reporter virus system to permanently mark cells infected by CHIKV . Using this system , we show in mice that marked cells surviving CHIKV infection are present for at least 112 days after initial virus inoculation . The marked cells are a mixture of muscle and skin cells . We also show that treatment of mice with an antibody that blocks receptor engagement and CHIKV infection reduces the number of marked cells in the muscle and skin . Finally , we have demonstrated that surviving tdTomato+ cells contain most of the persistent CHIKV RNA . This reporter virus system represents a useful tool for identifying and isolating cells that harbor chronic viral RNA in order to study chronic disease pathogenesis .
We seek to understand how billions of neurons in the brain work together to give rise to everyday brain function . In most current experimental settings , we can only record from tens of neurons for a few hours at a time . A major question in systems neuroscience is whether our interpretation of how neurons interact would change if we monitor orders of magnitude more neurons and for substantially more time . In this study , we use realistic networks of model neurons , which allow us to analyze the activity from as many model neurons as we want for as long as we want . For these models , we found that we can identify the salient interactions among neurons and interpret their activity meaningfully within the range of neurons and recording time available in current experiments . Furthermore , we studied how the neural activity from the models reflects how the neurons are connected . These results help to guide the interpretation of analyses using populations of neurons in the context of the larger network to understand brain function .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , a recalcitrant Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen , defies eradication by antibiotics and exemplifies current highly problematic pathogens that often cause untreatable acute or chronic infections . There is increasing evidence that small molecules excreted by bacterial pathogens may impact human health by affecting functions including immunity . Although such small molecules in favor of acute infections have been reported , small molecules that may impact immune responses in pathogens' favor of maintaining a chronic infection have not . We recently published work showing that the P . aeruginosa small molecule 2-amino acetophenone ( 2-AA ) promotes bacterial phenotypic and genetic changes associated with chronic infection . Here , we provide evidence that this diagnostically important small volatile molecule dampens the host inflammatory process triggered by infection , thus favoring chronic infection . 2-AA limits the inflammatory response by balancing the secretion of pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators in vivo , as well as in vitro , while improving survival against P . aeruginosa infection . The ability of 2-AA to dampen inflammatory processes , while increasing host survival and pathogen persistence , suggests that this molecule promotes host tolerance to infection . Our findings provide novel insights into pathogen weapons and mechanisms used to enable long-term bacterial presence in infected tissues .
Transposable elements comprise major portions of most animal genomes and are selfish genetic elements that may encode proteins needed for their own spread to new genomic locations . Though often considered genomic parasites , these elements also occasionally create novel genes that prove beneficial to the host , a process called 'domestication' . Here , we describe the evolution of a gene , L1TD1 , which is derived from the protein-coding regions of the L1 mobile element family . We show that L1TD1 was born in the common ancestor of placental mammals . L1TD1 expression in stem cells and its requirement to maintain the pluripotent state of human embryonic stem cells suggested it might have been originally domesticated for such a pluripotency role . We find that L1TD1's evolution does not fit with the predictions of this model; in fact , L1TD1 has rapidly evolved in primates and mice and has been lost several times in mammals . We suggest an alternate model that L1TD1 was born as a means to defend genomes against transposable elements , perhaps L1 itself . We propose that following this initial domestication , L1TD1 later became incorporated into pluripotency programs in some mammalian lineages .
Bacteria adapt and survive unfavorable environments by quickly changing their gene expression and physiology , for example as pathogens do during infection of host cells . Gene expression is often determined by RNA turnover , a balance between transcription and RNA decay carried out by multiple RNases . The recently identified RNase YbeY was shown in E . coli to participate in rRNA maturation and 70 S ribosome quality control , however YbeY's roles in other organisms and the extent of functional conservation is unknown . Here , we show that YbeY is an essential RNase in the pathogen Vibrio cholerae , critical for cell fitness and general stress tolerance . We demonstrate that YbeY is crucial for 16 S rRNA 3′ end maturation , assembly of functional 70 S ribosomes and ribosome quality control . Moreover , YbeY regulates virulence-associated small RNAs and its depletion leads to an overall reduction in pathogenesis , exemplified by significantly decreased biofilm formation , mouse colonization and cholera toxin production . We also show that YbeY belongs to a minimal core set of RNases essential in most representative pathogens . The multifaceted roles of YbeY in several essential cellular processes and its highly conserved function across bacterial species , suggest that YbeY could be an attractive new antimicrobial target .
The cells of living organisms do not concurrently express their entire complement of genes . Instead , they regulate their gene expression , and one consequence of this is the potential for different cells to adopt different stable gene expression patterns . For example , the development of an embryo necessitates that cells alter their gene expression patterns in order to differentiate . These gene expression phenotypes are largely robust to genetic mutation , and one source of this robustness may reside in the network structure of interacting molecules that underlie genetic regulation . Theoretical studies of regulatory networks have linked network structure to robustness; however , it is also necessary to more extensively characterize real-world regulatory networks in order to understand which structural properties may be biologically meaningful . We recently used theoretical models to show that a particular structural property , degree assortativity , is linked to robustness . Here , we measure the assortativity of human regulatory networks in 41 distinct cell and tissue types . We then develop a theoretical framework to explore how this structural property affects robustness , and we find that the gene expression phenotypes of human regulatory networks are more robust than expected by chance alone .
Perception of the environment relies on neuronal computation in the cerebral cortex . However , the exact algorithms by which cortical neuronal networks process relevant information from the inputs of sensory organs are only poorly understood . To address this problem we stimulated distinct whiskers and recorded the neuronal responses from identified cortical whisker representations of the rat using multi-site electrodes . For rodents the whisker system is one main sensory input channel , offering the unique property that for each whisker an identified cortical area ( "barrel-related column" ) represents its main cortical input station . In the present study we were able to demonstrate that the action potential firing of single inhibitory neurons provides more information about behaviorally relevant qualities of whisker stimulation ( identity of the stimulated whisker and frequency of stimulation ) than excitatory neurons . In addition , information about stimulation qualities was encoded with less redundancy in inhibitory neurons . In summary , the results of our study suggest that inhibitory neurons carry substantial information about the sensory environment and can thereby adequately orchestrate neuronal activity in sensory cortices .
In this work , we have engineered a distinctive genetic system , based on regulatory RNAs that control the process of protein translation , that is able to perform arithmetic logic computations ( additions ) in a single bacterial cell . The system expresses as output fluorescent proteins according to the molecular concentrations of the inputs ( binary code ) . In the future , this circuitry might be instrumental to develop smart bacterial cells that can make appropriate decisions after certain computation for biomedical applications .
Nucleotidase activity is part of a biological process that allows the cell to regulate the intracellular pools of nucleotides involved in many signaling pathways . During cancer therapy with cytotoxic nucleoside analogues , the role of cN-II is unclear . Therefore , the development of specific inhibitors against this enzyme is of great interest for understanding its implication in cancer biology and drug resistance . Ribonucleoside phosphonates are of major importance because they behave as bioisosteric analogues of the natural cN-II substrates and contain a chemically and enzymatically stable phosphorus-carbon linkage . Taking the advantages of docking methods , we predicted the inhibitory potential of these compounds . Their binding strength was explained by an impressive interaction network involving mainly three residues of the enzyme ( acting as hydrophobic tweezers ) . These new characterized inhibitors will constitute a valuable tool for elucidating the role of cN-II in cancer cells and may be used in combination with cytotoxic nucleosidic drugs in order to increase their antitumor activity . Furthermore , the strategy taking into account the hydrophobic clamp for designing new inhibitors may be applied to other nucleotidases of the HAD family as two of the three identified residues are present in the substrate binding site of cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase III and 5′-deoxynucleotidase-I .
A decade ago , a new variant form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was identified . The emergence of this prion disease in humans was the consequence of the zoonotic transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy through dietary exposure . Since then , the control of human exposure to prions has become a priority , and a policy based on the exclusion of known infectious materials from the food chain has been implemented . Because all investigations carried out failed to reveal evidence of infectivity in milk from affected ruminants , this product has continuously been considered as safe . In this study , we demonstrate the presence of prions in colostrum and milk from sheep incubating natural scrapie and displaying apparently healthy mammary glands . This finding indicates that milk from small ruminants could contribute to the transmission of prion disease between animals . It also raises some concern with regard to the risk to humans associated with milk products from ovine and other dairy species .
Liberia experienced a large Ebola outbreak from March 2014 to January 2016 . Collection and management of the data on the outbreak were challenging because surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned at the time . Diagnostic laboratories , however , were able to register important information independently and more systematically . We obtained data on 16 , 370 laboratory samples during the outbreak . Analyses of the data revealed that there were differences in sex , age , and place of residence between Ebola cases and non-Ebola suspected cases . Young children , the elderly , and patients living in rural areas were more likely to die because of the disease . Our analysis also found a decreasing trend in the case fatality rate of Ebola during the outbreak . These findings may help support future investigations and lead to a fuller understanding of the outbreak in Liberia .
Tyrosinase is an enzyme that controls a rate-limiting reaction of melanogenesis: it catalyzes the conversion of a phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone . Streptomyces tyrosinase is formed as a complex , with a “caddie” protein that assists with the transport of the two copper ions into the enzyme’s active center . In our previous study , we showed that the Tyr98 residue in the caddie protein , which is accommodated in the pocket of active center of tyrosinase , is converted to a reactive quinone through the formations of the μ-η2:η2-peroxo-dicopper ( II ) and Cu ( II ) -dopasemiquinone intermediates . Until now—despite extensive studies of the tyrosinase reaction based on the crystallographic analysis , low-molecular-weight model systems , and computer simulations—the catalytic mechanism was unclear at an atomic level . To understand the catalytic mechanism of tyrosinase in detail , we determined the cryo-trapped crystal structures at very high resolutions , which suggest an important new step for the tyrosinase reaction: the hydroxylation reaction triggered by the movement of CuA , which induces the syn-to-anti rearrangement of the copper ligands after the formation of μ-η2:η2-peroxo-dicopper ( II ) core .
Ribosomes , the molecular machines synthesizing proteins , are composed of a small and large subunit , formed by the binding of numerous ribosomal proteins ( RPs ) to properly folded ribosomal RNAs ( rRNAs ) . RP incorporation as well as processing and folding of rRNAs occur within a succession of pre-ribosomal particles . Formation of the initial pre-60S particle , the first precursor to the large ribosomal subunit , is the least understood step of ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes . This pre-ribosomal particle contains several assembly factors ( AFs ) , including RNA helicases believed to catalyse key conformational rearrangements . These helicases usually lack substrate specificity on their own . Here , we show that the Dbp6p helicase , a component of the first pre-60S particle and essential for its normal accumulation , associates with a complex of four AFs , including Npa1p . We demonstrate that Npa1p directly binds Dbp6p , forms the backbone of the complex and is required for the integration of Dbp6p within pre-ribosomal particles . We show that Npa1p binds to sequences forming the core of large subunit rRNAs as well as small nucleolar RNAs required for chemical modification of large subunit rRNAs . Altogether our results suggest that the Npa1p complex plays a crucial role in the chemical modification and folding of large subunit rRNAs .
Belief updating in response to changes in the environment is crucial for adaptive behavior . We examined the role of the human catecholamine ( norepinephrine and dopamine ) systems in this process , using a combination of pharmacology , scalp electrophysiology and computational modeling . We found that the P3 component of the event-related potential—an electrophysiological index of phasic catecholamine release in the cortex—predicted learning rate and mediated the effect of prediction-error magnitude on learning rate . Furthermore , a pharmacological manipulation of catecholamine activity affected learning rate following unanticipated task changes , in a way that depended on participants’ natural learning rate . These findings may reflect the catecholaminergic regulation of belief updating following environmental change .
Infectious diseases are still a major public health problem for humanity , especially because of their unpredictability . In this context , developing surveillance systems is one of the most effective solutions to fight them , including in Sub-Saharan African countries where the situation is particularly worrying . This study describes how automated surveillance systems have been implemented in two rural areas in Senegal for the weekly surveillance of 15 pathogens responsible for fever in Africa and on the basis of laboratory data from two rural laboratories . In addition , the first results of this surveillance are presented . The two surveillance systems prospectively and retrospectively detected several abnormal events , and allowed us to observe that the distribution of the pathogens was not the same depending on the region under surveillance . This study provides evidence on the possibility of developing surveillance systems in rural areas in Africa . Such initiatives are needed , especially to improve our global knowledge on infectious diseases in this continent .
Cells can sense and respond to their microenvironments collectively to yield high-order complex multicellular behaviors . Despite its fundamental importance in cell physiology , the emerging mechanisms that drive collective cell signaling and their functional implications in diverse cellular structures , e . g . , as seen in various vascular architectures , remain poorly understood . These collective cell behaviors are often counterintuitive and cannot be understood by extrapolating the behaviors of individual cells . Using a combination of microscale cell patterning and computational modeling , we elucidate the architecture-dependent calcium signaling and contractility in endothelial cells via gap junction mediated calcium oscillation in an architecture-dependent manner . As calcium is one of the most important second messengers , collective calcium signaling may serve as a broad mechanism in regulating various cell functions . More importantly , our finding highlights a relatively unexplored mechanism of cellular regulation via cellular architectures .
A vaccine against RSV that provides protection without potential for disease enhancement is required . The G attachment protein represents an important candidate for inclusion in an effective RSV vaccine . However , the contribution of different antigenic sites to protection against RSV is not completely understood . We evaluated the protective efficacy of recombinant unglycosylated RSV-G protein vaccine produced in E . coli ( REG ) vs . CCD-deletion ( REG ΔCCD ) . We also investigated immunogenicity and protective efficacy of all antigenic sites identified in post-primary infection infant sera using GFPDL that includes N- and C-terminal G subdomains , and linear peptides . The REG ΔCCD , N- and C-terminal subdomains and peptides generated antibody titers in rabbits and mice . Vaccinated mice challenged intranasally with RSV demonstrated significant reduction of viral replication in the nasal cavity and lungs . Our study highlights the safety and immunogenicity of recombinant G protein as economical protective vaccine against RSV disease .
The nervous system displays daunting cellular diversity , largely generated through complex regulatory input operating on stem cells and their neural lineages during development . Most of the reported mechanisms acting to generate neural diversity pertain to transcriptional regulation . In contrast , little is known regarding the post-transcriptional mechanisms involved . Here , we use a specific group of neurons , Apterous neurons , in the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila melanogaster as our model , to analyze the function of two essential components of the spliceosome; Brr2 and Prp8 . Apterous neurons require a BMP retrograde signal for terminal differentiation , and we find that brr2 and Prp8 play crucial roles during this process . brr2 is critical for two independent events; axon pathfinding and BMP signaling , both of which are required for the activation of the retrograde signaling pathway necessary for Apterous neurons . These results identify a post-transcriptional mechanism as key for specifying neuronal identity , by ensuring the execution of a retrograde signal .
Protein ubiquitylation is the covalent attachment of the small protein ubiquitin onto other proteins and is a key regulatory pathway for most biological processes . The central components of the ubiquitylation process are the E3 ligases , which recognize substrate proteins . The best-studied E3 complexes are the SCF ligases , which are composed of 3 core components—Cdc53 , Skp1 , Rbx1—that assemble to the functional ligase complex by binding to one of the multiple substrate adaptors—the F-box proteins . Maintaining a balanced repertoire of diverse SCF complexes that represent the entire cellular panel of substrate adapters is challenging . Depending on the cell type , hundreds of different F-box proteins can compete for the single binding site on the common SCF core complex . Rapid degradation of F-box proteins helps in maintaining a critical level of unoccupied Cdc53/Skp1/Rbx1 core , complexes and alterations in levels of F-box proteins has been linked to diseases including cancer . Studying the yeast F-box protein Met30 as a model , we have uncovered a novel mechanism for degradation of F-box proteins . This pathway targets free F-box proteins and requires part of the SCF core . These findings add an additional layer to our understanding of regulation of multisubunit E3 ligase .
Molecular motors transport a wide variety of cellular cargoes that are important for diverse cellular phenomena such as mitosis , polarity , motility , and secretion . Motor activity must be tightly regulated to ensure that ATP hydrolysis and processive motility occur only upon coupling to the correct cargo . In neuronal cells , Kinesin-3 motors drive the transport of presynaptic vesicles and other membrane-bound organelles along microtubule tracks . Yet the mechanisms of Kinesin-3 motor activation and motility remain controversial . In this study , we examine the regulation and motile properties of the Kinesin-3 motor KIF1A . We show that in the absence of cargo , KIF1A motors exist in a dimeric inactive state that is maintained by two distinct autoinhibitory mechanisms . This suggests a simple model for activation of dimeric motors upon cargo binding . We also show that dimeric motors can undergo two mechanisms of motility along microtubule tracks: one-dimensional diffusion and ATP-driven processive motility . This unique property may facilitate the ability of KIF1A to drive long-distance vesicular transport in neuronal cells .
Seeds represent 70% of the food source for man and livestock . However , as a result of millennia of domestication , crop plants have undergone major genetic deterioration , leading to a loss of important quality traits . Thus , the reintroduction of these quality traits is the key to the improvement of crops in modern agriculture . Seed quality traits include nutritional components , such as proteins and amino acids , and seed germination and storability , which are , in turn , inherently related to metabolism . To understand the genetic basis of seed metabolism—a strategic need in the improvement of seed crops—we studied a collection of offspring plants stemming from the cross between a domesticated tomato cultivar Solanum lycopersicum cv M82 and its distant wild relative S . pennellii . We monitored the changes in metabolism and studied the mode of regulation of the concentration of metabolites in the seeds as a result of genetic introgression , by taking advantage of state-of-the-art technologies and methods of data elaboration such as network-based analysis . We identified a number of candidate genes that may be useful in manipulations to enhance nutritional values in seeds . Finally , in an effort to study the relation among the seed , the fruit , and the mother plant , we determined potential yield-associated metabolic markers .
Vibrio cholerae is the bacterium that causes cholera , a disease endemic in developing countries with poor sanitation . The bacterium colonizes aquatic organisms that serve as a reservoir of transmission to humans . Our work has focused on GbpA , a protein that is secreted by V . cholerae and appears to facilitate growth of the bacteria both in the human intestine and on the exoskeletons of marine organisms . We show that the protein possesses an unusual three-dimensional structure consisting of four separate domains . Two of the domains are similar to proteins that are known to bind chitin , an exoskeleton biopolymer , and our data show that these domains indeed harbour the chitin binding properties of GbpA . One of these domains is also capable of binding intestinal mucus . The two remaining domains are required for interacting with the bacterium itself , creating a stable interface between the bacterium and the human/marine host , facilitating colonization . Finally , work with a cholera mouse model shows that only the first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization . These results show how GbpA provides structural/functional modular interactions between V . cholerae , the intestinal epithelium and chitinous exoskeletons .
An important marker of progression to PTB following Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection in humans is elevated frequencies of HLA-DR+CD4+ T cells , reflecting chronic T cell activation . However , the mechanisms by which activated HLA-DR+CD4+ T cells contribute to disease process is not known . We show that CD25- HLA-DR+CD4+ memory Teff from PTB patients are resistant to suppression mediated by Treg cells . An unbiased transcriptome analysis identified several key pathways that contribute to this resistance . Specifically , presence of HLA-DR+CD4+ T cells renders the effector population resistant to CCR5 and PD-L1 mediated suppression by Treg cells . In addition , the HLA-DR+CD4+ memory Teff cells express elevated levels of Th1/Th17 cytokines known to counter-regulate and dampen Treg suppression . These findings provide fresh insight to disease process in TB and identify HLA-DR+ Teff resistant to Treg suppression as a potential functional marker of disease .
The agent causing transmissible spongiform encephalopathies , the prion , consists mainly if not entirely of PrPSc , an aggregated conformational variant of PrPC . PrPC is a host-specified glycoprotein which is attached to the outer surface of the plasma membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) anchor . PrPSc is thought to propagate by seeded conversion , in which PrPC accretes to an aggregate of PrPSc and thereby assumes its conformation . Prions occur as distinct strains , which have the same PrP sequence but different PrPSc conformations . Many strains are very stable but some can “mutate” , especially after transient propagation in another animal species . Here “mutation” is attributed to a conformational change of the underlying PrPSc protein rather than a change in the nucleotide sequence of a gene . In transgenic mice that express anchorless PrP , conversion to PrPSc occurs extracellularly rather than in a cell-associated compartment . Surprisingly , RML , a very stable prion strain , when propagated in tgGPI− mice and then returned to wild-type mice , was recovered as a novel strain , designated SFL , which was stable over many transmissions . Thus , faithful strain propagation was abrogated either as a consequence of the modified PrP or because of a different replication mode in the extracellular compartment of tgGPI− brain .
Embryogenesis involves the patterning of many different cell fates by a limited number of types of signals . One way that these signals promote a particular cell fate is through the induction of a complex , yet highly reproducible , gene expression programme that instructs changes in the cell . For example , there is a conserved role for BMP signals in specifying cell fates during dorsal-ventral axis patterning . Here , we have used genomics approaches to identify the gene expression programme implemented in response to BMP signaling during axis patterning in the Drosophila embryo . Part of the gene network downstream of BMP signaling includes members of the EGF signaling pathway , with our data highlighting reciprocal interactions between these two pathways . We have also determined genome-wide binding of BMP-responsive transcription factors to gain new insights into how the BMP gene network is activated . Our data reveal roles for specific transcription factors and insulator binding proteins , with the latter traditionally associated with the separation of transcriptional domains . Overall , our data will provide a platform for exploiting the tractability of the Drosophila embryo to determine which features of the network are critical drivers of BMP-induced cell fate changes during embryogenesis .
In Tunisia , zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ZCL ) constitutes a significant public health problem . Since 1884 , the Gafsa , Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid governorates are the most endemic areas of ZCL . This study used a multi-locus microsatellite typing approach to study the evolution and the population dynamics of Leishmania major in Tunisia . Within the same area , in twenty years , parasite populations evolved by producing a genetically differentiated population , probably better adapted to the ecosystem . In agreement with the reported human cases of ZCL , the genetic data on samples from the three governorates shows that the disease did not spread according to a geographical gradient . Furthermore , L . major flows seem to still occur between governorates and neighboring districts . This study suggests that environmental changes , human activities and reservoir systems have influenced the spread and evolution of L . major populations . Our findings provide important knowledge on the epidemiology of L . major in Tunisia and might help understanding why the disease is still spreading from the south to the center , despite the control measures that have been put into place .
More than 2 billion people are infected with soil transmitted helminthiasis ( STH ) and schistosomiasis globally . In addition to deworming with albendazole and praziquantel , water , sanitation , and hygiene ( WASH ) may be needed to reduce the risk of helminth reinfection and ultimately to break transmission . However evidence on the effectiveness of integrated deworming and WASH programs are mixed . Using data from a randomized controlled trial of deworming among HIV-infected adults in Kenya , we evaluated the associations between different potential packages of deworming and WASH interventions with helminth prevalence . We also aimed to understand if there was a benefit to accessing both WASH and deworming ( i . e . synergy ) . Our findings indicate that deworming treatments were effective in reducing the probability of infection with most helminth species . Of the WASH conditions assessed , safe flooring and latrine access significantly reduced the probability of helminth infections among adults with access to treatment . However WASH may play a more prominent protective role among individuals without access to deworming treatments . These findings also suggest minimal synergistic benefit of coordinated anthelmintic chemotherapy and WASH in this population . These findings have important implications for adult populations who are currently not targeted by deworming campaigns .
In their natural environments , microorganisms compete for space and nutrients , and a major strategy to assist in niche colonization is the deployment of antagonistic compounds directed at competitors , such as secondary metabolites ( antibiotics ) and antibacterial peptides or proteins ( bacteriocins ) . The latter selectively kill closely related bacteria , which is also the case for members of the LlpA family . Here , we investigate the structure-function relationship for the prototype LlpABW from a saprophytic plant-associated Pseudomonas whose genus-specific target spectrum includes several phytopathogenic pseudomonads . By determining the 3D structure of this protein , we could assign LlpA to the so-called monocot mannose-binding lectin ( MMBL ) family , representing its first prokaryotic member , and also add a new type of protective function , as the eukaryotic MMBL members have been linked with antiviral , antifungal , nematicidal or insecticidal activities . For the protein containing two similarly folded domains , we constructed site-specific mutants affected in carbohydrate binding and domain chimers from LlpA homologues to show that mannose-specific sugar binding mediated by one domain is required for activity and that the other domain determines target strain specificity . The strategy that evolved for these bacteriocins is reminiscent of the one used by mammalian bactericidal proteins of the RegIII family that recruited a C-type lectin fold to kill bacteria .
During development , cell–cell signaling pathways coordinate programs of gene expression in neighboring cells . Cell–cell signaling is typically achieved by the secretion of a signaling ligand followed by its binding to a membrane receptor on the surface of a neighboring cell ( or cells ) . The ligand-bound receptor directly or indirectly triggers transcription factor activation . Here we present evidence for a non-canonical signaling pathway that links developmental gene expression in the forespore and mother cell during spore formation in Bacillus subtilis . Our data support a model in which a novel secretion system is assembled in the double membrane that encases the spore within the mother cell . This apparatus is not involved in transducing a specific activating signal but rather allows the mother cell to nurture the spore and thereby maintain the spore program of developmental gene expression .
Bipolar disorder ( BD ) is a highly heritable disease that has been difficult to characterize genetically . We have genotyped 1 , 190 BD cases and 401 controls to find regions of the genome associated with BD . After combining these data with previously existing genotyped samples , we did not find any genome-wide significant associations . However , when we used an additional study to prioritize loci for replication and meta-analysis purposes , we found that we were more likely to see an association in our sample with variants for which we had the highest power . We quantified this effect using logistic regression and saw a strong association between power to detect an effect based on an initial study's results and replication P-value in a second study ( P = 1 . 5×10−7 ) , supporting the presence of shared genetic risk factors across the studies . Moreover , this association was stronger when we restricted analysis to SNPs near coding regions , and it was further enriched when SNPs had the same direction of effect in both studies . This result supports the presence of genetic factors underlying BD near exons whose collective effect results in a detectable signal and provides a framework for assessing the potential for replication when combining results from multiple studies .
One of the hallmarks of cancer is uncontrolled cellular proliferation , and therefore many anti-cancer drugs aim to disrupt cancer proliferation . However , some of these drugs ( e . g . , chemotherapeutic agents ) affect normal proliferating cells as well , resulting in undesirable side effects . Understanding the differences between cancerous and non-cancerous proliferation can help us design new selective drugs that kill cancer cells without harming normal cells . In this work , we use genome scale gene expression and growth rate measurements across 60 cancer cell lines ( NCI-60 ) to uncover genetic determinants of cancerous proliferation . In parallel , gene expression and growth rate measurements of non-cancerous cell lines allow us to uncover determinants of non-cancerous proliferation . Notably , we find marked differences between the cancerous and non-cancerous proliferation . The two proliferation signatures can be used jointly to enhance the prediction of patient outcome in cancer . Notably , we find that certain genes in the translation and spliceosome machineries are involved in cancerous proliferation but not in non-cancerous proliferation , highlighting them as putative selective anti-cancer drug targets .
Cardiac and vascular involvement are infrequent in classical cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) , but when they occur they tend to present earlier and are associated with complications that may be life threatening . Cardiovascular CE usually requires complex surgery , so in low-income countries the outcome is frequently fatal . This case series describes the characteristics of cardiovascular CE in patients diagnosed and treated at a Tropical Medicine & Clinical Parasitology Center in Spain . A retrospective case series of 11 patients with cardiac and/or endovascular CE , followed-up over a period of 15 years ( 1995–2009 ) is reported . The main clinical manifestations included thoracic pain or dyspnea , although 2 patients were asymptomatic . The clinical picture and complications vary according to cyst location . Isolated cardiac CE may be cured after surgery , while endovascular extracardiac involvement is associated with severe chronic complications . CE should be included in the differential diagnosis of cardiovascular disease in patients from endemic areas . CE is a neglected disease and further studies are necessary in order to make more definite management recommendations for this rare and severe form of the disease . The authors propose a general approach based on cyst location: exclusively cardiac , endovascular or both .
Pathogenic microbes have evolved elaborate strategies to manipulate host defenses to establish and spread in the host population . One such mechanism involves disruption of the immune signaling cascade orchestrated by the Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) , which sense microbial attack . TLR signaling elicits a proinflammatory response that controls immune cell recruitment to infected tissues . Here , we show that Staphylococcus aureus , an opportunistic human pathogen , expresses a host defense–like protein , TirS , that actively perturbs the initial TLR activation stage . Results with isolated human cells and mouse models show that TirS is a broad innate immune inhibitor of TLR-dependent signaling and modulates bacterial virulence , attenuating local inflammation . Moreover , the tirS gene lies near antimicrobial resistance genes for an antibiotic that enhances TirS production , shifting the balance to favor the pathogen and promote disease . Understanding mechanisms by which S . aureus modulates the immune response may lead to novel approaches for preventing and treating infection .
Linking genotype to phenotype is a major undertaking in modern biological research . A variety of strategies are used but have generally failed to explain the maintenance and acquisition of new phenotypic traits in changing populations . We propose that whole-genome cross-species comparisons can be used to identify gene clusters underlying phenotypic variation . In the present study we used gene expression datasets collected during fruit fly and mosquito embryogenesis to identify temporal changes in gene expression . We found that differentially represented tissue types ( such as extraembryonic serosa ) were clearly manifested by clusters of local discordances in gene expression . Discordances were also observed for a suite of maternally expressed genes , consistent with the notion that the abrupt maternal-zygotic transition seen in Drosophila is an evolutionary innovation of higher Diptera . We propose that gene clustering by expression discordance can be used to determine the genetic basis of phenotypic variation .
Children in rural communities of tropical countries often suffer skin ulcers that are caused by the bacteria Haemophilus ducreyi–causative agent of chancroid- and Treponema pallidum subsp . pertenue -causative agent of yaws- . The currently recommended strategy for yaws eradication is one round of mass drug administration ( MDA ) with azithromycin . We attempted to find reasons for the limited impact of yaws MDA on the prevalence of H . ducreyi leg ulcers by examining potential sources of infection in healthy carriers , flies , and bed linen . H . ducreyi DNA was found in skin swabs from 20% of asymptomatic children , in 9/10 flies , and 3/6 bed sheets from the houses of children with ulcers . While H . ducreyi DNA has been detected in the genital tract of asymptomatic women without genital ulcers , this is the first report of such detection on the skin of asymptomatic individuals . Importantly , skin cultures obtained from two asymptomatic children yielded viable H . ducreyi , confirming colonization and a potential reservoir of infection . If confirmed to contain viable bacteria , flies and fomites may also contribute to the continued presence of this infection after mass treatment with azithromycin . Our findings provide evidence that persistence of H . ducreyi ulcers after antibiotic MDA is due to the ubiquity of the organism in the environment . Improved hygiene and additional strategies such as repeated rounds of MDA could be able to control such a reservoir .
As data size and complexity increase in life science research , so the need for bioinformatics training has increased . This training is required across a wide variety of audiences , but varies in the level of detail and content that needs to be delivered . A scientist wishing to use some bioinformatics tools to analyse their specific dataset will require different competencies than one that provides support in a bioinformatics services environment . The Curriculum Task Force of the International Society of Computational Biology ( ISCB ) Education Committee has attempted to address this by developing a set of bioinformatics core competencies and mapping these to ten different user profiles across the spectrum of potential trainees . Here we present the final iteration of the competencies and some examples to demonstrate how they have been used to drive bioinformatics curriculum development and training in different settings .
Parasitic nematodes infect over one billion people worldwide and cause many diseases , including strongyloidiasis , filariasis , and hookworm disease . For many of these parasites , including Strongyloides stercoralis , the infectious form is a developmentally arrested and long-lived thirdstage larva ( L3i ) . Upon encountering a host , L3i quickly resume development and mature into parasitic adults . In the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , a similar developmentally arrested third-stage larva , known as the dauer , is regulated by four key cellular mechanisms . We hypothesized that similar cellular mechanisms control L3i arrest and activation . Therefore , we used deep-sequencing technology to characterize the S . stercoralis transcriptome ( RNAseq ) , which allowed us to identify S . stercoralis homologs of components of these four mechanisms and examine their temporal regulation . We found similar temporal regulation between S . stercoralis and C . elegans for components of two mechanisms , but dissimilar temporal regulation for two others , suggesting conserved as well as novel modes of developmental regulation for L3i . Understanding L3i development may lead to novel control strategies as well as new treatments for strongyloidiasis and other diseases caused by parasitic nematodes .
Humans are frequently exposed to bacterial genotoxins linked to cancers , colibactin and Cytolethal Distending Toxin ( CDT ) . These genotoxins induce DNA damage and can promote formation of nucleoplasmic reticulum ( NR ) , deeply invaginated in the nucleoplasm of giant nuclei both in vivo and in vitro . Our cellular models showed that these structures can be observed together with profound nuclear reorganization corresponding to remodeling of nuclear material . The core of the genotoxin-induced NRs concentrates protein production machinery of the cell as well as controlling elements of protein turnover . These genotoxin-induced dynamic structures may also be signaling hubs controlling mRNA turnover and translation of selected mRNAs and thus correspond to a privileged gateway for the synthesis of selected mRNA which are preferentially transported from the nucleus through pores and translated therein . These transient and reversible hubs allow the cell to pause and repair the DNA damage caused by bacterial genotoxins in order to maintain cell survival . As NR formation is a common feature of many cancers , similar mechanism could occur and contribute to the resistance of cancer cells to radiotherapies and some chemotherapies aimed at inducing DNA damage .
The sequelae of leprosy are diverse and include facial deformity . A characteristic facial deformity is saddle nose , and the common clinical approach to this facial deformity has been rhinoplasty . Paleopathological studies from excavated skeletal remains have revealed that leprosy also causes deformation of the maxillary bone , which supports the external nose; however , these changes have not been evaluated in living patients with leprosy . In this study , we reconstructed three-dimensional and stereoscopic images of the cranium from CT scan data and evaluated maxillary deformities both qualitatively and quantitatively . Out of the ten former patients with leprosy , three had severe deformity of the maxilla including: atrophy of the anterior nasal spine , resorption of the medial part of the alveolar process , loss of sharpness of the piriform aperture margins , and atrophy of the nasal turbinate and the septum . These changes were consistent with previous findings from paleopathological studies . We also developed a novel method for measuring the anterior-posterior length of the maxilla using 3D-CT images , with compensation for individual differences in cranial size . The calculated values are indicative of the severity of the maxillary defects as well as the thickness of bone that needs to be reconstructed to correct the deformed maxilla .
We rarely hear sounds ( such as someone talking ) in isolation , but rather against a background of noise . When mixtures of sounds and background noise reach the ears , peripheral auditory neurons represent the whole sound mixture . Previous evidence suggests , however , that the higher auditory brain represents just the sounds of interest , and is less affected by the presence of background noise . The neural mechanisms underlying this transformation are poorly understood . Here , we investigate these mechanisms by studying the representation of sound by populations of neurons at three stages along the auditory pathway; we simulate the auditory nerve and record from neurons in the midbrain and primary auditory cortex of anesthetized ferrets . We find that the transformation from noise-sensitive representations of sound to noise-tolerant processing takes place gradually along the pathway from auditory nerve to midbrain to cortex . Our results suggest that this results from neurons adapting to the statistics of heard sounds .
In the last two decades our knowledge on stress-induced changes has been expanded rapidly . As a part of this work a large number of key proteins and biological processes of cellular adaptation to stress have been uncovered . However , we know relatively little on the systems level changes of the cell in stress . In our study we used the network approach to study the changes of the yeast protein-protein interaction network ( interactome ) in the archetype of stress , heat shock . The major finding of our study is that heat shock induced a marked decrease in the inter-community connections of the yeast interactome . The observed changes resembled to a ‘stratus-cumulus’ type transition of the interactome structure , since the unstressed yeast interactome had a globally connected organization , similar to that of stratus clouds , whereas the heat shocked interactome had a multifocal organization , similar to that of cumulus clouds . Our results indicated that heat shock induces a partial disintegration of the global protein-protein network structure of yeast cells . This change may be rather general occurring at the initial phase of crises in many complex systems , such as proteins in physical stretch , ecosystems in abrupt environmental changes or social networks in economic crisis .
Chagas disease is a chronic neglected tropical disease , with high prevalence and burden in Latin America . About 30% of chronically infected patients develop Chagas cardiomyopathy . Ventricular arrhythmias are common in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and treatment approaches include medications , resynchronization therapy , and implantable cardioverter defibrillator . Studies published from 1980 to 1990 have evaluated the effect of amiodarone . According to our systematic review and individual patient meta-analysis , amiodarone reduced ventricular tachycardia , ventricular premature beats and incidence of ventricular couplets . Although the strong evidence of clinical benefit with arrhythmia reduction , this information should be interpreted with caution , since arrhythmia is a surrogate outcome and since its clinical impact on death and hospitalization reduction over time is not clear . Little information was identified related to hard endpoints . Regarding side effects , our systematic review observed that amiodarone was associated with corneal microdeposits , gastrointestinal events , sinus bradycardia , dermatological events , pneumonitis , hypothyroidism and drug discontinuation . The currently available evidence shows that amiodarone seems to be an effective antiarrhythmic drug for patients with Chagas disease , especially in settings where an implantable cardioverter defibrillator is not available or affordable , but that a balance between potential benefits and harms at the individual level is needed .
Dengue fever exhibits a seasonal pattern in many parts of the world , much of which has been attributed to climate and weather . However , additional factors may contribute to dengue seasonality . With 2009–2016 medical record data from rural Ecuador , we studied the short- and long-term seasonal patterns of dengue fever , as well as the effect of school schedules and public holidays . We also examined the effect of climate on dengue . We found that dengue diagnoses peak once per year in mid-March , but that diagnoses are also affected by day of the week . Dengue was also impacted by regional climate and complex interactions between local weather variables . This is the first report of long-term dengue fever seasonality in Ecuador , one of few reports from rural patients , and one of very few studies utilizing daily disease reports . This is the first report on the impacts of school schedules , holidays , and weekday-weekend patterns on dengue diagnoses . These results suggest a potential impact of human behaviors on dengue exposure risk . More broadly , these results can inform local disease prevention efforts and public health planning , as well as global and regional models of dengue fever trends .
We show in transgenic mouse and human cell culture models that expression of a viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRP ) profoundly reconfigures mammalian innate antiviral immunity by exposing the normally stringently-sequestered viral RNA copying process to MDA5 detection . In RdRP-transgenic mouse tissues , the mRNAs for critical interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) are highly elevated , up to 300-fold . Many antiviral ISGs are similarly induced , up to 560-fold , when we express the RdRP in human monocyte and lung epithelial cell lines . The elevated basal ISG profile protects RdRP mice and human cells from viral infection . RdRP mice are robustly healthy with normal longevity despite life-long , constitutive MDA5-mediated innate immune system activation . This work suggests a plausible approach to augmenting innate immunity to block viral pathogenesis .
Plant viruses have been used to test quantitative models of infection for over 80 years . Recent advances in molecular biology have made it possible to make empirical estimates of the effective population size , the number of virions ( i . e . , virus particles ) that are actually infecting a plant . The relationship between effective population size and virion dose has not been elucidated , and there are discrepancies between estimates of effective population size made for different plant viruses . We therefore formulated a simple model of infection based on the independent action hypothesis , the idea that each virion can infect the plant independently of the presence of other virions . Next , we exposed plants to different doses of two viral genotypes carrying fluorescent markers , which allow for tracking infection . We found that our infection model could describe the overall rate of infection , the number of starting infections , and the number of virus genotypes infecting the entire plant . These tests show that effective population size is dependent on dose and proportional to the number of virions the plant has been exposed to . The minimum effective population size is 1 , suggesting that genetic drift can play a dominant role in the evolution of plant viruses .
Integrated analysis of genome-wide genetic polymorphisms and gene expression profiles from different tissues or cell types has been highly successful in identifying genes modulating complex phenotypes in animal models and humans . However , an important limitation of the current approaches consists in their sole application to individual tissues , thus ignoring information shared across different tissues . To uncover complex genetic regulatory mechanisms controlling gene expression at the whole organism's level , it is essential to develop appropriate analytical methods for the analysis of genome-wide genetic polymorphisms and gene expression profiles simultaneously in multiple tissues . This paper presents a novel , fully integrated Bayesian approach for mapping the genetic components of gene expression within and across multiple tissues . In addition to increased power and enhanced mapping resolution when compared with traditional approaches , our model directly provides information on potential systemic effects on transcriptional profiles and co-existing local ( cis ) and distant ( trans ) genetic control of gene expression . We also discuss the possibility to extend our approach for the analysis of different phenotypes , and other study designs , thus providing an integrated computational tool to explore the genetic control underlying transcriptional regulation at the systems-level , beyond the single tissue resolution .
In higher eukaryotes , tissue development and homeostasis involves a subtle balance between rates of cell birth and death . Cell death ( apoptosis ) is triggered by activation of caspases , specialized enzymes that digest essential cellular constituents and trigger degradation of genomic DNA . Under normal circumstances receptor-dependent cell death is very tightly repressed , but it is irreversibly induced upon receipt of an appropriate signal . Mutations that interfere with this all-or-none control contribute to developmental abnormalities , autoimmune disease , and cancer . The biochemical properties of most apoptotic proteins are quite well understood , but it is unclear how these proteins work together . By combining live-cell microscopy , genetic perturbation , and mathematical modeling , we seek quantitative insight into cell death with a focus on network dynamics and control . We find that cells vary dramatically in the time between receipt of an apoptotic signal and the commitment to death . This variability arises from cell-to-cell differences in the activities of receptor-proximal biochemical reactions . Rapid all-or-none progress from commitment to actual death is achieved downstream by pro-apoptotic proteins found in the mitochondrial membrane . Our work provides a quantitative picture of apoptosis that advances understanding of oncogenic mechanisms and should eventually assist in the development of pro-apoptotic cancer therapies .
Infections during pregnancy can lead to infections of the placenta , spread to the fetus , and cause fetal damage and death . Improving maternal-child heath is a global heath priority . Yet , progress to prevent and treat pregnancy-related diseases has lagged behind other medical fields . Using pregnant guinea pigs , which have a placental structure that closely resembles humans , we identified a protein ( InlP ) secreted by the bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes that strongly promotes placental infection . In human placental organ cultures bacteria deficient in InlP were impaired in their ability to spread from infected placental cytotrophoblasts into the underlying fetal stroma . Here , we solved the crystal structure of InlP , and identified Afadin , a cytoplasmic protein that localizes to adherens junctions as a binding partner of InlP . We demonstrate that InlP decreases the magnitude of traction stresses epithelial cells exert on an underlying extracellular matrix , and furthermore , that InlP facilitates bacterial spread from infected epithelial monolayers into an underlying compartment . Our study provides new insights into the mechanisms of bacterial spread across the placental barrier .
Syphilis remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . The bacterium causing syphilis , Treponema pallidum ssp . pallidum , has evolved into a highly distinctive organism that is only able survive ( and be propagated ) in mammals . In humans it can evade the immune system for decades with devastating consequences . Much remains to be learned about how it accomplishes this . Only a minority of its predicted proteins have been detected experimentally thus far . We aimed to more comprehensively characterize the proteins of this organism . Since it cannot be cultured in vitro , we cultured T . pallidum in rabbits and analyzed extracted proteins using different mass spectrometry methods , a manner of detecting proteins with high accuracy . In total , we detected more than half of the predicted number of proteins that could be expressed by this bacterium ( N = 557 ) . For approximately half of the proteins , we succeeded in characterizing their predicted cellular location using an array of bioinformatic tools and catalogued their function . This is the most comprehensive analysis of the T . pallidum proteome to date . This study lays the groundwork for other protein investigations of this unique organism .
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) is a messenger molecule produced within cells to control cellular metabolism in response to external stimuli . Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is the major receptor for cAMP . cAMP binds to tandem cAMP-binding domains ( CBD-A and -B ) within the regulatory subunits of PKA ( R ) , unleashing the activity of the catalytic subunit ( C ) . While CBD-A is required for C-subunit inhibition and activation , in RIα CBD-B functions as a “gatekeeper” domain that modulates the control exerted by CBD-A . However , it is not currently clear how ligand binding and dynamics of CBD-B mediate its gatekeeper function . We comparatively analyzed by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) a two-domain construct of the regulatory subunit RIα with no ligand , with cAMP2 bound , and the C-bound form . These data show that both CBDs can exist in a system of uncorrelated conformational selection as both can independently sample activated and inactivated states ( in what is known as a nearly degenerate free energy landscape ) . This explains why both RIα CBDs exhibit a higher cAMP-affinity than other cAMP receptors . Once cAMP has bound , the degeneracy is lost and dissociation of the kinase subunit is promoted through a combination of intra-domain conformational selection and changes in inter-CBD orientation . The proposed model—a double-conformational selection model—provides a general framework to interpret the effect of PKA mutations that have been reported in rare human disorders such as Carney complex and Acrodysostosis .
Protein modification by ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like proteins is a key regulatory process of the innate and adaptive immune response . Interferon-stimulated gene 15 product ( ISG15 ) is an ubiquitin-like protein modifier that can reversibly attach to different viral and cellular proteins , mediating potent antiviral responses . In turn , many viruses , including poxviruses , have evolved strategies to antagonize the antiviral and inflammatory effects of the innate immune response in order to keep infected cells alive until virus replication is complete . Here , we describe a novel role for ISG15 in the control of mitochondrial function . Post-translational modifications such as ISGylation regulate essential mitochondrial processes including respiration and mitophagy , and influence macrophage innate immunity signaling . These findings are clinically relevant since mitochondrial dysfunction is seen in many pathologies , such as infectious disease , cancer , and cardiovascular or neurological disorders , among others , underscoring the importance of the relationship between cellular metabolism and immune response .
In addition to the structural and catalytic proteins characteristic of retroviruses , HIV-1 encodes auxiliary proteins that govern virus-host interaction . One such auxiliary protein termed Vpu both enhances virion release from human cells and the degradation of CD4 , the cellular surface receptor of HIV-1 . The latter activity relies on a strategy frequently used by pathogens , i . e . , the hijacking of the protein degradation machinery . This process involves the ubiquitin ligases that ensure the selection of the protein subsequently degraded . Vpu interacts both with an ubiquitin ligase and CD4 , bridging the latter to the degradation machinery . Here , we show that in addition to subverting one particular ubiquitin ligase to trigger CD4 degradation , Vpu is itself recognized in a phosphorylation-dependent manner by a distinct ubiquitin ligase and degraded . Mutations of Vpu that confer resistance to this degradation process enhance viral particle release , whereas the determinant of Vpu turnover is paradoxically well conserved among HIV-1 isolates . These results suggest that the virus is constrained to limit its own production for long-term persistence .
Between distantly related species , development converges at common morphological and genetic stages , called developmental milestones , to ensure the establishment of a basic body plan . Beyond these milestones greater variability in developmental processes builds species-specific form . We reasoned that developmental milestones might also act within a species to achieve robustness against environmental or physiological perturbation . To address this , we first developed a staging scheme for the progression of pattern in the wing disc across developmental time . We then explored how perturbing environmental or physiological stimuli known to alter the rate of development affected the progression of pattern in the wing disc . We found two developmental milestones , the moult to the third instar and pupariation , where wing disc patterning aligned with the development of the whole body . This suggests that robustness against environmental and physiological conditions is achieved by coordinating tissue with whole-body development at developmental milestones .
Eukaryotic cells rely on constant membrane trafficking to organise their intracellular compartments . Endosomes are important transport units that serve as sorting platforms during endocytosis . Internalised cargo destined for degradation is transferred via maturing endosomes towards the lysosome/vacuole . Essential for this maturation and membrane remodelling is the so-called ESCRT machinery . In highly polarised cells , like fungal hyphae , endosomes carry out an additional role: they transport various cargos such as mRNAs and protein complexes over long distances . At present it is unclear how these two seemingly independent functions are coordinated . Here we demonstrate in the plant pathogen Ustilago maydis that the ESCRT regulator Did2 is required for the dual function of endosomes . Loss of Did2 resulted in defective targeting of vacuolar proteins , disturbed endosomal mRNA-transport as well as altered shuttling of endosomes . Importantly , we observed that in absence of Did2 proteins typically present on static late endosomes or in vacuoles are now present on motile early endosomes . Based on these findings , we propose that Did2 specifically controls endosomal maturation and identity . Thereby , vacuolar sorting is insulated from long-distance transport . In conclusion , we provide new insights into the complex regulatory potential of the ESCRT regulator Did2 in polarised eukaryotic cells .
Bacterial genetic regulation is mostly performed at the levels of transcription and translation . Recently discovered riboswitches are RNA molecules located in untranslated regions of messenger RNAs that modulate the expression of genes involved in the transport and metabolism of small metabolites . Several riboswitches have recently been shown to employ various regulation mechanisms , but no general rules have yet been deduced from these studies . Here , we have analyzed two adenine-sensing riboswitches of Bacillus subtilis and Vibrio vulnificus that differ by the level at which they control gene expression , which is transcription and translation , respectively . We find that , beyond the obvious difference in transcriptional and translational modulation , riboswitch regulation mechanisms of both adenine riboswitches are fundamentally different . For instance , while the adenine riboswitch from B . subtilis performs co-transcriptional binding for gene regulation , the riboswitch from V . vulnificus relies on reversible ligand binding to achieve gene regulation during mRNA translation . In agreement with co-transcriptional binding of the B . subtilis riboswitch , we find that transcriptional pausing is crucial for gene regulation . Our results suggest that the nature of gene regulation control , that is transcription or translation , may have a high importance in riboswitch regulatory mechanisms .
Primer-dependent transcription initiation , PDI , refers to an alternative mechanism of transcription initiation whereby the first phosphodiester bond within the nascent RNA is formed between a 2- to ~4-nt RNA primer and an incoming nucleoside triphosphate . Although PDI has been shown to occur in E . coli , the impact of PDI on E . coli physiology , and the extent to which PDI occurs in other bacteria is unknown . Here we establish that PDI modulates the ability of E . coli to form biofilms , a surface attached community of bacteria encased in a polymeric matrix . We further describe a significantly improved RNA-seq based method for the detection of PDI in cells . Using this method we document the occurrence of PDI in the pathogenic bacterium Vibrio cholerae . We further show that the pattern of PDI in V . cholerae is identical to that observed in E . coli , suggesting that PDI in these two organisms may occur through a conserved process that produces identical populations of 2- to ~4-nt RNA primers . Our findings suggest PDI may be widespread in Gammaproteobacteria .
In mammals and plants , imprinted genes are expressed preferentially by the copy inherited from either the mother or the father . In plants genome dosage is easily manipulated using tetraploid plants that contain twice the genome dosage of the natural diploid plants . The increased maternal dosage reduces seed size while increased paternal dosage has the opposite effect . It was further proposed that parental genomic imbalances are directly mirrored by antagonistic regulations of imprinted genes encoding maternal growth inhibitors and paternal growth enhancers . However these hypotheses were never tested directly . We measured the expression of imprinted genes and their regulators , in crosses between diploid and tetraploid Arabidopsis plants . Surprisingly , parental dosage imbalance affected each imprinted gene in a different manner and the imprinted status was also affected . Our results point to a relationship between imprinting and dosage imbalance that is more complex than predicted .
The fact that the brain generates weak but measurable electromagnetic waves has intrigued neuroscientists for over a century . Even more remarkable is the fact that these oscillations of brain activity correlate with the state of awareness and that their frequency and amplitude display reproducible features that are different in health and disease . In healthy conditions , oscillations of different frequency bands tend to minimize interference . This is similar to radio stations avoiding overlap between frequency bands to ensure clear transmission . During epileptic seizures , mutual entrainment , analogous to interference of radio signals , has also been reported . Moreover , in schizophrenia and autism , there is a loss of higher frequency oscillations . Most studies thus far have focused on the mechanisms generating the oscillations , as well as on their functional relevance . In contrast , our study focuses on what brain rhythms tell us about the functional network organization of the brain . Using a reverse-engineering approach , we construct abstract networks ( virtual brains ) that display oscillations of actual brains . These networks reveal that brain rhythms reflect different levels of hierarchical organization in health and disease . We predict specific alterations in brain connectivity in the aforementioned diseases and explain how clinicians and experimentalists can test our predictions .
Using genotype data from about 60 , 000 distinct genetic markers , we examined population structure in 1 , 374 unrelated Hispanic individuals from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( MESA ) , with self-identification corresponding to Central America ( n = 93 ) , Cuba ( n = 50 ) , the Dominican Republic ( n = 203 ) , Mexico ( n = 708 ) , Puerto Rico ( n = 192 ) , and South America ( n = 111 ) . By comparing genetic ancestry of MESA Hispanic participants to reference samples representing worldwide diversity , we show major differences in ancestry of MESA Hispanics reflecting their Caucasian , African , and Native American origins , with finer differences corresponding to North-South geographic origins that separate MESA Mexican versus Central/South American samples . Based on our analysis , we define four subgroups of the MESA Hispanic cohort that show close agreement with the following self-identified regions of origin: Dominican/Cuban , Mexican , Central/South American , and Puerto Rican . We examine association of triglycerides with selected genetic markers , and we further demonstrate the importance of considering differences in genetic ancestry ( or factors associated with genetic ancestry ) when performing genetic studies of the United States Hispanic population .
During S phase of the cell cycle , not only must DNA sequences be faithfully duplicated , chromatin structures must also be inherited into daughter cells to maintain gene expression states and cell identity . While significant progress has been made in understanding the regulation of DNA replication , how chromatin structures are maintained from one cell division cycle to the next ( so-called epigenetic inheritance ) is only partially understood . It is believed that the DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly process plays an important role in such inheritance as well as maintenance of genome stability . In this process , histone chaperones such as chromatin assembly factor 1 ( CAF-1 ) deposit newly synthesized histones H3–H4 , which are acetylated at specific lysine residues , onto replicating DNA in a PCNA dependent reaction . PCNA is a clamp for DNA polymerases and other proteins that are involved in DNA replication and DNA repair . Genetic interactions between lysine acetyltransferase Elp3 and factors involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly are described . Elp3 is required for transcriptional silencing and for maintenance of genome stability and binds directly to PCNA . A role for the Elongator complex in response to DNA damage and in maintenance of gene silencing is discussed .
As the volume of literature on genomic variants continues to grow at an increasing rate , it is becoming more difficult for a curator of a variant knowledge base to keep up with and curate all the published papers . Here , we suggest a deep learning-based literature triage method for genomic variation resources . Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the triage task . Moreover , our model does not require any laborious preprocessing or feature engineering steps , which are required for traditional machine learning triage methods . We applied our method to the literature triage process of UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and the NHGRI-EBI GWAS Catalog for genomic variation by collaborating with the database curators . Both the manual curation teams confirmed that our method achieved higher precision than their previous query-based triage methods without compromising recall . Both results show that our method is more efficient and can replace the traditional query-based triage methods of manually curated databases . Our method can give human curators more time to focus on more challenging tasks such as actual curation as well as the discovery of novel papers/experimental techniques to consider for inclusion .
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia , and is characterised by complex and irregular electrical activation of the upper chambers of the heart . One rare , genetic condition associated with increased risk of AF is the short QT syndrome ( SQTS ) , which is caused by mutations in genes involved in normal electrical function of the heart . Underlying mechanisms by which SQTS-related gene mutations facilitate development of arrhythmias in the human atria are not well understood . In this study , sophisticated computer models representing ‘virtual’ human atria , incorporating detailed electrophysiological data at the ‘ion channel’ protein level into both idealised and realistic multi-scale tissue geometries , were used to dissect mechanisms by which two mutations in the KCNJ2 gene responsible for SQTS variant 3 ( SQT3 ) promote initiation and sustenance of arrhythmias . It was found that the D172N and E299V mutations to KCNJ2 accelerated the repolarisation process at the cellular level through distinct mechanisms . This , along with the way the mutations affected heterogeneity in electrical behaviour at the organ level , mediated stability of arrhythmias and response to simulated ion channel block . This study improves understanding of mechanisms underlying increased AF risk associated with D172N and E299V KCNJ2 mutations , and outlines potential therapeutic strategies .
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , which is transmitted by kissing bugs in endemic areas located in Central and South America . In its acute phase , the disease has unspecific and mild symptoms , whereas in the chronic phase infected individuals might develop severe cardiomyopathy . For many years , different cell types have been under investigation as alternatives for the treatment of several diseases . Mesenchymal stromal cells ( MSC ) are one of these cell types . As our understanding of MSC biology increases , their properties might be explored in different disease contexts . Since Chagas disease is characterized by intense inflammation and one of the key properties of MSC is the modulation of the immune system , our work investigated the effect of injecting MSC in a mouse model of Chagas disease . Our results show that MSC improved the control of parasite burden and cardiac inflammation , leading to the prevention of cardiac dilation .
Over 12 million people worldwide are infected by Leishmania parasites and many more are at risk of being infected . In the mammalian host , Leishmania parasites live in intracellular compartments called parasitophorous vacuoles ( LPVs ) . We have previously shown that Retro-2 , a member of a novel class of small retrograde pathway inhibitors , caused reduced LPV sizes and lower parasite numbers during L . mexicana sp . infections . The purpose of this study was to determine if analogs of Retro-2cycl reported to have superior potency in the inhibition of retrograde pathway-dependent phenomena are also more effective than the parent compound in controlling Leishmania infections . We show that two optimized analogs of Retro-2cycl are significantly more effective than the parent compound at controlling Leishmania infections and in the reversal of parasite induced suppression of IL-6 release by infected cells after LPS activation . Moreover , we show that the analogs kill Leishmania parasites in axenic cultures , which is a desirable characteristic for any compound that is being considered to treat Leishmania infections . Together , these studies validate and extend the published structure-activity relationship analyses of Retro-2cycl . In addition , they show that the Retro-2cycl analogs reverse the effects of the parasite on macrophage responses that are likely to affect the overall host response to infection .
The nucleosome—a large protein complex with DNA wound around it—is the fundamental unit of genomic organization in the eukaryotic cell . More than just a DNA organizer , however , nucleosomes may control gene expression by interfering with the cell’s ability to access the wound-up DNA , as shown by recent research . In this report , we demonstrate a computational method for predicting which elements of the genome are sensitive to regulation by nucleosomes . As a proof-of-concept , we identify AML-1a binding sites—important sequences in DNA regulation—as being specifically nucleosome sensitive . We then show that AML-1a sites are specifically depleted of nucleosomes when a gene is expressed , indicating the ability for nucleosomes to suppress the expression of that gene . This finding confirms that nucleosomes are likely involved in genome regulation , and provides a method for predicting which areas of the genome are probably affected most by nucleosomes . This paper also highlights the usefulness of the Ly49 gene family in testing computer-derived genomic predictions , and is of interest to anyone studying how gene expression is regulated from cell to cell .
In the cell cycle , duplication of all the cellular components and subsequent cell division are governed by a family of protein kinases associated with cyclins ( CDKs ) . Related CDK4 and CDK6 bound to cyclins D are the first CDKs to be activated in response to cell proliferation signals . They thus play a central role in the cell multiplication decision , especially in most cancer cells in which CDK4 activity is highly deregulated . We have identified the activating T172 phosphorylation instead of cyclin D expression as the highly regulated step determining CDK4 activation . This finding contrasts with the prevalent view that the only identified metazoan CDK-activating kinase , CDK7 , is constitutively active . By using human cells genetically engineered for specific chemical inhibition of CDK7 , we found that CDK7 activity was indeed required for CDK4 activation . However , this dependence was conditioned by CDK4 binding to the CDK inhibitory protein p21 , which increased in response to CDK7 inhibition . Further investigation revealed that CDK7 inhibition affects a major phosphorylation of p21 , which we found to be required for CDK4 activation and performed by CDK4 itself and CDK2 . Thus , depending on CDK7 activity , CDK4 and CDK2 facilitate CDK4 activation , generating novel positive feedbacks involved in the cell cycle decision .
Meiosis is a critical event in sexual reproduction . During meiosis , chromosomes recombine and segregate twice consecutively to produce haploid daughter cells , which differentiate into gametes . In humans , errors in meiosis are the leading causes of congenital birth defects . In plants , bypassing the meiotic program can lead to production of clonal seeds that retain hybrid traits that otherwise segregate . Thus , understanding the controls of meiosis has major implications for both health and crop improvement . How meiotic gene expression is regulated in multicellular eukaryotes to promote entry into and progression through the meiotic program is poorly understood . Here we identify DUET , a protein essential for male meiosis in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana , as a regulator of meiotic gene expression . We found that DUET is required for proper expression of JAS and TDM1 . These genes function in male meiosis , and regulate spindle organization during meiosis II and cell cycle transitions , respectively . Expression of DUET at the end of prophase coincides with the onset of TDM1 expression , and DUET directly binds TDM1 , indicating TDM1 is a direct target of DUET . Our results provide an initial framework for further elucidating the developmental and molecular controls of meiotic gene expression in plants .
Fragile X–associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder that usually affects males over 50 years of age , and FXTAS patients are carriers of fragile X premutation alleles . Using a FXTAS Drosophila model , we previously showed that fragile X premutation rCGG repeats alone could cause neurodegeneration . Pur α and hnRNP A2/B1 were identified as specific premutation rCGG repeat-binding proteins ( RBPs ) that could bind and modulate fragile X premutation rCGG–mediated neuronal degeneration . Here , through systematic proteomic , genetic , and microarray analyses , we show that the nuclear accumulation of select mRNAs caused by fragile X premutation rCGG repeats may contribute to FXTAS pathogenesis , and the mechanism could be via impaired nuclear export due to the decreased levels of Rm62 seen upon fragile X premutation rCGG expression .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes life-threatening , persistent infections in cystic fibrosis patients , despite highly aggressive antimicrobial therapy . Persistence is due , in part , to the ability of these bacteria to form surface-associated communities ( biofilms ) enmeshed in an extracellular matrix . This matrix is a poorly defined mixture of protein , polysaccharide , and DNA . An understanding of the organization and composition of the biofilm matrix will assist in the development of therapeutics aimed at disrupting biofilms . Using reagents that specifically recognize the P . aeruginosa Psl exopolysaccharide , we visualized matrix formation in real time during a biofilm development cycle . This revealed a highly organized and coordinated assembly of both polysaccharide and DNA components of the matrix . At late stages of biofilm morphogenesis , a Psl-free matrix cavity , occupied with numerous motile cells , developed . Mutants with reduced cell lysis were unable to form the Psl matrix cavity , whereas those with elevated cell death and lysis formed a larger matrix cavity , leading to accelerated dispersion . We propose that programmed cell death and autolysis are critical for the proper timing of biofilm development and dispersion . The data indicate that Psl is a key scaffolding component of the biofilm matrix , a property that likely plays a critical role in P . aeruginosa persistence .
PDAC is a highly lethal , therapy-resistant malignancy , whose etiology is poorly understood . PDAC PDX and PDO have emerged as important in vitro and in vivo preclinical platforms to study PDAC at the molecular level . However , current investigations of these models provide limited snapshots of donor-model comparisons . To date , comprehensive assessment of PDAC disease models using whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) has not been performed . We conducted a comprehensive assessment of the genetic landscape of 16 whole-genome pairs of tumors and matched PDX , from primary PDAC and liver metastasis , including a unique cohort of 5 ‘trios’ of matched primary tumor , PDX , and PDO . Globally , our findings indicate that PDX and PDO successfully recapitulate primary and metastatic disease at the level of simple somatic mutations mainly in driver genes . Disease model fidelity is not fully retained when assessing structural variation ( SV ) events , based on heterogeneity we observed across donor-model pairs . Strikingly , we found that clustering of large SV events across particular chromosomes is retained when the tumors are implanted into their respective disease models . Polyploidy presents a major challenge when assessing copy number changes; however , ploidy-corrected copy number states suggest good agreement between donor-model pairs . Our work provides biological insights into PDAC disease heterogeneity and presents a tractable pipeline for future WGS research that compares donor samples with matched PDX and PDO .
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies among women worldwide . Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of breast cancer . To identify common genetic susceptibility alleles for breast cancer , we performed a four-stage genome-wide association study in 19 , 091 cases and 20 , 606 controls among East-Asian women . Single nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) rs9485372 , near the TGF-beta activated kinase 1 ( TAB2 ) gene at chromosome 6q25 . 1 , was associated with breast cancer risk ( P = 3 . 8×10−12 ) . SNPs rs9383951 , located in intron 5 of the estrogen receptor 1 ( ESR1 ) gene , and rs7107217 , located at 11q24 . 3 , were also consistently associated with breast cancer risk in all four stages with a combined P of 1 . 9×10−6 and 4 . 6×10−7 , respectively . This study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372 , near the TAB2 gene ( 6q25 . 1 ) , and identifies two possible susceptibility loci located in the ESR1 gene and 11q24 . 3 , respectively .
Cryptococcus neoformans ( Cn ) is a yeast that commonly causes meningitis in HIV infected individuals in Africa , where it may account for up to 500 , 000 deaths every year . In this highly translational and multidisciplinary study , we used genetic analysis techniques to show that Cryptococcus found in Southern Africa represents a hotspot of genetic diversity . We combined this data with the results of microbiological techniques that assess the natural virulence traits that the yeast uses to survive and infect humans to further show that genetic diversity is associated with differences in cryptococcal phenotype . Finally , we analysed detailed clinical data on patients to investigate the clinical effects of infection with different lineages , and showed that one genetic lineage ( VNB ) is significantly associated with worse survival . Whilst much of our prior knowledge regarding the genetic basis of virulence is derived from studies on laboratory-adapted cryptococcal strains , our findings from this large and comprehensive MLST genotyping study of clinical isolates—linking genotype , phenotype , clinical presentation and outcome—provide direct insights into the contribution of pathogen lineage to virulence in human cryptococcal meningitis .
Signal transduction pathways regulate the response of cells to changes in the extracellular environment . Here , we report the identification of Tec1 as the single effector transcription factor of the pheromone response pathway of the human pathogen Candida albicans white cell type . This newly evolved pathway provides us with a unique opportunity to investigate signal transduction pathway evolution . In the C . albicans white-opaque transition , mating-competent opaque cells release mating pheromone that induces mating-incompetent white cells to form a biofilm which facilitates mating of the former . Each of the three major portions of the pathway that regulates white cell pheromone response appears to be derived from an ancestral pathway that is still intact and functional in C . albicans . The upstream portion—including the pheromone , its receptor , trimeric G protein complex , and a MAP kinase cascade—appears to be derived from the mating response pathway; transcription factor Tec1 from the filamentation pathway; and Tec1 target genes from the biofilm biosynthesis pathway . We posit that the sharing of upstream signaling components coordinates white and opaque cell pheromone responses , yet the divergence of downstream pathway components allows each cell type to elicit a unique phenotypic outcome . The white cell pheromone response pathway therefore provides a paradigm for how other such pathways may have evolved .
Shortly after it was proved that DNA was the genetic material it became apparent that organisms , and in particular bacteria , use the four letters of the genetic code to very different extents; the use of G and C varies from less than 20% in some species , to more than 70% in others . This variation in the use of G and C is usually attributed to differences in the pattern of mutation between species . Here we test this hypothesis , and show that , on the contrary , there seems to be pervasive selection on the base composition of the bacterial genome , particularly in GC-rich species . This suggests that many , if not all , sites may be subject to natural selection in many bacteria . Unfortunately , the reason why some bacteria should be selected for high GC-content remains unclear .
Effective targeting of mass drug administration for the treatment of soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) requires reliable , up-to-date maps that indicate where prevalence exceeds the 20% intervention threshold recommended by the World Health Organization . We present a new approach for mapping the prevalence of STH in Kenya , incorporating observed prevalence data from 945 cross-sectional surveys undertaken between 1974 and 2009 . The distribution of each species was modelled using model-based geostatistics; models included information on environmental factors , the spatial distribution of existing surveys and when these surveys were conducted . Resulting risk maps were combined and linked with population data enabling estimation of the population at risk of any STH infection and requiring treatment in 2009 . In most areas , there was high certainty that combined STH prevalence was below the 20% intervention threshold , with areas of high prevalence located around the shores of Lake Victoria and on the coast . Results also suggest that observed prevalence decreased over time and emphasise the importance of continued surveillance in areas where observed prevalence was historically high . We show how spatial modelling can be used to develop up-to-date maps of STH risk to help improve the precision of decision making in disease control .
Host resistance to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) requires a coordinated response by the different components of the immune system . We established an in vitro model to study the contribution of innate lymphocytes to immunity against Mtb . When co-cultured with Mtb-infected macrophages , splenocytes from uninfected mice become activated and suppress bacterial replication . By fractionating the different splenocyte cell populations , we discovered that the invariant NKT ( iNKT ) cell is essential for suppressing intracellular bacterial replication . iNKT cells , which are conserved in rodents and humans , recognize lipids presented by the antigen-presenting molecule CD1d . While we had previously shown that iNKT cell-deficient mice are not more susceptible to tuberculosis , a potential contribution of iNKT cells during the early phase of immunity may have been masked . To address this issue , we showed that highly purified iNKT cells were sufficient to reduce the lung bacterial burden of mice infected with virulent Mtb . This is the first evidence that CD1d-restricted iNKT cells play a physiological role in mediating protection against aerosol Mtb infection in vivo . Thus , by being an early producer of interferon-g and suppressing intracellular bacterial growth , iNKT cells function as an important part of the early immune response against Mtb .
The orderly recruitment of proteins during the assembly of complex macromolecular structures poses challenges throughout cell biology . During endospore development in the bacterium Bacillus subtilis at least 80 proteins synthesized in the mother cell are assembled around the developing spore to form a protective coat . Regulation of coat gene expression has been described in detail but it is unknown how the information encoded by the structures of the proteins guide their assembly . We have examined the assembly of a transglutaminase , Tgl , which introduces ε- ( γ-glutamyl ) lysil cross-links in coat protein substrates . We describe with molecular detail a substrate-driven assembly model that directs the enzyme to the locations of its substrates where , as we suggest , it exerts a “spotwelding” activity to fortify pre-assembled complexes . The catalytic cysteine , located in a tunnel that spans the Tgl structure , first forms an acyl enzyme intermediate with a glutamine ( Q ) donor substrate . Then , it engages a lysine ( K ) donor substrate to form the cross-linked product . We have identified the Q and K acceptor ends of the Tgl tunnel , and we show that substitutions in substrate recognition residues at the Q side impair assembly more strongly than at the K side . Thus , assembly of Tgl parallels its catalytic cycle , directing the enzyme to the pre-formed complexes that are to be cross-linked .
The liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini mainly occurs in Lao PDR and Thailand . Humans become infected through the consumption of raw or insufficiently cooked freshwater fish . Chronic infections may lead to severe liver ( bile duct ) diseases that eventually develop into a bile duct cancer with extremely poor prognosis . Current control efforts aim at preventing heavy morbidity and mortality . In recent years , spatial modeling , using data from well designed surveys , has been employed to better understand the distribution and determinants of parasitic diseases for guiding subsequent control . However , a spatial modeling approach has not been used for O . viverrini before . The purpose of the current study was to map the distribution of O . viverrini infection in Champasack province in southern Lao PDR , to identify risk factors of infection , and to predict the distribution at non-surveyed locations . We found that the risk of O . viverrini infection is higher for people living in close proximity to freshwater bodies , whereas the lack of sanitation sustained environmental contamination and transmission . High risk zones in Champasack province are concentrated in the Mekong River corridor , and hence control efforts should be targeted along the Mekong River .
Lymphatic filariasis and malaria are endemic in Dar es Salaam and partially share common vectors , but no synergy exists between their control programs . The vast majority of mosquito breeding habitats in the city is human-made , and therefore could be mitigated through the implementation of a community-based vector control program accompanied by an educational campaign to sensitize the population and promote behavior change . Of particular importance are clogged drains and ditches with stagnant water , which are the most common larval habitat in the city . This problem could be addressed by an environmental management intervention in order to restore and maintain the functionality of drains . Such intervention can potentially contribute to reduce vector-borne disease transmission , but also promote an overall healthier environment , particularly improving the situation of those living under slum conditions , as proposed by the Millennium Development Goal 7 . A synergy between efforts to control lymphatic filariasis and malaria , identifying common strategies , combining monitoring activities , optimizing the use of limited financial resources , and carefully evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the joint venture would not only contribute to current goals of lymphatic filariasis and malaria elimination , but also provide important lessons for future integrated control efforts .
DENV replicative complexes formation is associated with changes of lipid-related metabolites in endoplasmic reticulum , such as an increase in cholesterol synthesis . This increase correlates with a significant augment in the activity of HMGCoA reductase ( the limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis ) , favoring a cholesterol-enriched cellular environment . The augment in the activity of the HMGCR observed in infected cells is caused by a decrease in the phosphorylation level of the HMGCR , associated with the inactivation of AMPK . In agreement , AMPK activation by metformin reduces HMGCR activity and affects viral replication . The role HMGCR and AMPK activity in DENV replicative complexes formation was confirmed by the co-localization of HMGCR and cholesterol with the viral proteins NS3 , NS4A and E . Furthermore , metformin and lovastatin ( HMGCR inhibitor ) treatments altered this co-localization as well as replicative complexes formation supporting that active HMGCR is required for replicative complexes formation . The results show that during DENV infection , an increase in the HMGCR activity occurs through AMPK inactivation , leading to higher cholesterol levels in endoplasmic reticulum necessary for replicative complexes formation . This work provides new information about the mechanisms involved in host lipid metabolism during DENV replicative cycle and identifies potential new antiviral targets for DENV replication .
With a comprehensive understanding of the underlying energetics for a biomolecular machine , such as the ribosome , we may quantitatively identify the essential factors that determine function . In molecular-level machines , the energetic fluctuations arising from the surrounding solvent become comparable to the energetics that direct each process . In this regime , structural rearrangements may be described as diffusive movements across a free-energy landscape . By adopting this framework , it is possible to quantitatively relate theoretical predictions , computational results , experimental rates and biochemical data , which will allow for a self-consistent description to be obtained . To this end , we have used an explicit-solvent simulation ( 2 . 1 million atoms , 1 . 3 microseconds ) to measure the diffusion along multiple structural coordinates that have been implicated in tRNA translocation in the ribosome . With the diffusion coefficients in hand , we demonstrate how they may be used to bridge theoretical and experimental descriptions of complex collective dynamics in a molecular machine .
Little is known about the molecular biology of medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) , which is a rare disease . Genomics are increasingly being used to improve our knowledge about disease biology and to identify therapeutic targets in many cancers . Here , we report the largest genomic results of MTC to date . MTC tissue frequently included several mutations . For the first time , anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) rearrangements were detected in MTC: one case with a glutamine:fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 1 ( GFPT1 ) -ALK fusion , and another case with an echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 ( EML4 ) -ALK fusion . The fusion mechanism of the novel GFPT1-ALK fusion was successfully investigated using molecular biology techniques . In addition , an inhibitor of ALK ( crizotinib ) dramatically decreased the number of metastatic MTC lesions harboring the EML4-ALK fusion , thus verifying the fusion as a promising target in MTC . Our findings suggest that using rapidly improving sequencing techniques and accumulated genomic data to comprehensively perform genetic analyses on rare tumors , such as MTC , will help to improve the poor prognosis of orphan diseases .
A total of 79 asymptomatic VL cases were detected from two kala-azar endemic blocks of Malda districts of West Bengal by active mass screening . Follow study of the asymptomatic cases revealed that 10 . 39% cases transformed into disease and 9 . 09% cases remained as sero-positive even after three years . So progression to clinical disease among asymptomatic individuals was taking place at any time up to three years after the baseline survey . Therefore , in a given period if there are no cases of VL/PKDL for two or more years , it does not mean that the area is free from leishmaniasis as symptomatic VL or PKDL may appear even after three years , if there are such asymptomatic cases . So , asymptomatic infected individuals need much attention for VL elimination programme that has been initiated by three adjoining endemic countries .
In this study we describe an adaptation of Multiplex Ligation–dependent Probe Amplification ( MLPA ) for use in the study of gross chromosomal rearrangements ( GCRs ) that occur in S . cerevisiae mutants with increased genome instability . Our previous study found that the presence of a Ty912 element on a nonessential arm of chromosome V resulted in increased rates of non-reciprocal monocentric translocations arising from recombination between the Ty912 on chromosome V and ectopic Ty elements on other chromosomes . Using MLPA , we observed that the majority of the translocations targeted six different translocation hotspots even though there were at least 254 potential targets for Ty-mediated translocations in the S . cerevisiae genome . Most of the observed translocations were formed by RAD52-dependent recombination , although we also identified a RAD52-independent recombination pathway that promoted the formation of the same types of translocations at lower rates . Finally , we found that defects in the ASF1-RTT109–dependent histone H3 lysine 56 ( H3K56 ) acetylation pathway caused increased rates of both Ty-mediated translocations and whole-chromosome duplications ( aneuploidy ) . This aneuploidy often occurred simultaneously with Ty-mediated translocations . Overall , our results demonstrate that MLPA is a rapid , inexpensive method that allows the analysis of the large number of GCRs needed to understand the pathways that suppress or promote genome instability .
Protein–protein interactions play a central role in various aspects of the structural and functional organization of the cell , and their elucidation is crucial for a better understanding of processes such as metabolic control , signal transduction , and gene regulation . Genomewide proteomics studies , primarily yeast two-hybrid assays , will provide an increasing list of interacting proteins , but only a small fraction of the potential complexes will be amenable to direct experimental analysis . Thus , it is important to develop computational docking methods that can elucidate the details of specific interactions at the atomic level . Protein–protein docking generally starts with a rigid body search that generates a large number of docked conformations with good shape , electrostatic , and chemical complementarity . The conformations are clustered to obtain a manageable number of models , but the current methods are unable to select the most likely structure among these models . Here we describe a refinement algorithm that , applied to the individual clusters , improves the quality of the models . The better models are suitable for higher-accuracy energy calculation , thereby increasing the chances that near-native structures can be identified , and thus the refinement increases the reliability of the entire docking algorithm .
